RETURN TO                        g         s 
REPCRTS DESKhILO
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
- - t   'ERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT14ON ANND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCLhA=N
Not For PI& Un
Rwart NtA PTR-124a
APPRAISAL OF
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJWEC
SOMALIA
February 14, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Fastern Africa Regional Office
This tqprt was ptepaxed for officiA use ony by the Bank Goup. It WAY nt be plh.  I
or cied without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Gro4p dom  t PApt w _ fb t1z4
accuracy or ompletense of the report.



CURRENCGr EQUIVALES
Currency unit        Somali shilling (So.Sh)
US$1              - So.Sh 6.925
So.Sh 1              US$O.01444
So.Sh 1 million      us$1444,oo
WEIGHTS AND MEASUL
1 meter (mI)                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic metr (i3)            35.29 cubic foot (cu ft)
1 kiloneter (km)          - 0.62 mile (xi)
1 square kilometer (Oa2)     0.386 aquare mile (sq xi)
1 hectare (ha)            -  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)           - 2.2 powads (lb)
1 metrio ton (a ton)      - 2,204 pouds (b)
1 liter (1)               = 0.22 Imperial gallon (Ig)
= 0.26 US gallon (gal)
GLOSSARY OF AMVIATIONS
AIC       - Associated Industrial Consultants Ltd.
dwt       -  Deadweight tons
FED       - Fonds Europeen de Developpezent
LLW       - Low low water
NRT       - Net registered tons
SOGREAX   - Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
Hydrauliques
SPA       - Somali Port Authority
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
USAID     - United States Agency for International
Development
Note: For consistency, where there are alternative Italian
and English spellings of names of places and
geographic areas, the Italian spelling has been used.
GOERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SOMALIA
APPRAISAL OF MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................    i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ................ ..                         1
II.   BACKGR<OUND ......................................       2
A.   Economic Setting         2................... .    2
B.   The Transport Sector                .....o...      3
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination   ......       4
D.   Government Policy for Autonomous Agencies          5
III.   PORT ORGANIZATION AND ADMIINISTRATION ..........         6
A.   Organization and Management        ..............  6
B.   SPA's Functions ..........................         7
C.   Port Regulations ......  ......   ..........*.     7
D.   Accounting Systems, Audit and Insurance ..         7
IV.   THE PROJECT PORT ...... .......................          8
A.   Existing Facilities          ......................  8
B.   Operations ...............................         9
C.   Facilities Required .....      .................  10
V.   THE PROJECT         ...................................  10
A.   Project Description .....      .................   10
B.   Project Execution .....      ...................  12
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements    13
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...........................         14
A.   Traffic Forecasts *      .......................   14
B.   Evaluation of Benefits  ...................       14
C.   Economic Costs of Project ................        16
D.   Economic Return ......     ....................   16
E.   Employment Effects ....... ................       16
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Bigosinski (consultant-economist),
A.11. Clark (financial analyst), C. Okurume (economist) and H. van Helden
(consultant-engineer).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ..........................     17
A.   Tariffs, Other Port Investments, Relending
of External Finance and Fixed Assets
Valuation  -. * ** * *** **...... *.* .............* *  es    17
B.   SPA's Financial Situation   ................    18
C.   Financial and Economic Objectives and
Covenants ...  *** **...... ..*.*.*.*** *....**   21
VIII.   ACTION TAKEN AND RECOMMENDATION ...............    22
ANNEXES
1.  New Facilities at Other Main Ports
2.  Main Project Characteristics
Attachment - General Plan of Harbor Works
3.  Traffic Forecasts
4.   Economic Justification
5(a) Terms and Conditions of USSR Loan for Berbera - Summary
5(b) Terms of Conditions of USA Loan for Chisimaio Project - Summary
6.  Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
TABLES
1. Total Port Traffic in 1971
2. Project Cost Estimates
3. Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
4. Mogadiscio Port Dry Cargo Forecasts
5. Livestock Diversion: Estimates of Benefits
6. Estimated Benefits and Costs
7. Principal Tariff Items
8. Forecast Revenue Accounts
9. Forecast Source and Application of Funds Statement
10.  Forecast Balance Sheets
11.  Forecast Debt Service Statement
MAPS
IBRD 10007 - Somalia and Mogadiscio Service Area
IBR) 3015 - Location of New Port Site



SOMALIA
APPRAISAL OF MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Somalia is an extremely poor country with an economy based on agri-
culture. 75% of the population are nomads. Exports are dominated by live-
stock (60%) and bananas (30%). The most productive area is served by the
inadequate lighterage port at Mlogadiscio, the country's capital and its major
import port. Obsolete facilities and inefficient and uneconomic operations
at this port have inhibited economic growth. Modern port facilities have re-
cently been provided at Berbera in the north by the USSR and at Chisimaio in
the south by USAID.
ii.       The proposed project, the first stage in a master plan to replace
the lighterage harbor with a sheltered deep-water port, will provide a break-
water with two general cargo berths, a banana berth and a livestock-handling
facility. It also includes an access road, paved areas, two transit sheds,
a warehouse, ancillary buildings, harbor and navigational aids, cargo-handling
equipment and technical assistance, including training for management, account-
ing and operations. The total cost of about US$25 million will be shared
equally by IDA and the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), who will also
jointly undertake administration and supervision of the project. Foreign
exchange costs amount to about US$20.3 million.
iii.      Construction of a new port and consequent increase in efficiency and
capacity will enable Mogadiscio to recapture some of its service area traffic
now handled uneconomically through other ports. Livestock now moved from the
Mogadiscio hinterland to the port of Berbera in the north for export will be
handled by Mogadiscio, as will cargo that must now be handled by Chisimaio,
500 km to the south, when the monsoon season makes lighterage operations at
radiscio impossible.  Bananas now exported through the inefficient lighterage
port of Merca, 90 km to the south, will also go through Mogadiscio. Furthermore,
the efficiency and lower cost of operations at the new port will generate new
traffic. These developments will help to increase the annual volume of dry
cargo traffic through Mogadiscio from the current 160,000 tons to 382,000
tons in 1977 and 525,000 tons in 1981.
iv.       Technical preparation of the project has been thorough.  Preliminary
engineering, financed by a Bank Technical Assistance Grant of US$311,000
and completed in 1967, and detailed technical studies, for a two-berth project,
financed by an IDA Engineering credit (S5-SO) of US$550,000 and completed in
1970, were conducted by the consultants Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et
d'Applications Hydrauliques (SOGREAH). SOGREAH will supervise construction
of the civil works. Procurement will be on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding under Bank/IDA guidelines.



- ii -
v.        The port will be operated by the Somali Port Authority (SPA), an
autonomous Government agency created in 1962. SPA has the necessary powers
to operate the port effectively but is inefficiently organized, with all
authority until recently vested in a commissioner of ports and no coordination
between its departments. However, the Government has recently amended the
Port Authority Law to provide for administration by a board of directors with
a general manager. A financial manager will also be appointed. The project
provides for management consultants to review the organization and administration
and recommend improvements, to reorganize port operations and to continue the
recent services provided under Credit S5-SQ to install accounting systems
and to train accounting and operating staff. A project agreement has been
negotiated between SPA and the Association.
vi.       In general the tariff structure covers principal facilities and
services, but the charges are not based on costs. There is an anachronistic
ad valorem harbor tax which should be replaced by cost-based harbor dues on
ships. The general level of rates is high and the lower costs of an effi-
cient modern port should permit reductions while still meeting acceptable
financial objectives. The management consultants provided for in the project
will also be required to review the tariff structure and recommend cost-based
levels of charges.
vii.      In response to FED's request, to enable its half share of financing
to be provided by way of a grant, the credit proceeds will be relent to SPA
on IDA terms.  At the same time Government borrowings for other port invest-
ments, not previously relent to SPA, will be relent on the same financial
terms as received by the Government. External finance by way of grants, in-
cluding the FED grant, will be treated as Government equity capital in SPA.
Under the Government's recent legislation on the finances of autonomous
agencies, SPA will be required to pay over to the Government surplus funds
generated by revenue surpluses and depreciation after full provision is made
for working capital, specified reserves, debt service, asset replacement and
development investment, based upon agreed financial plans. According to the
financial forecasts, total payments to the Government under this legislation
will substantially exceed what the debt service would be if the credit pro-
ceeds were relent to SPA on Bank terms. The Government's financial policy
with respect to these agencies is acceptable.
viii.     The economic return will be about 15%, which is satisfactory.  SPA
will be financially viable and a minimum financial return of 5% on net fixed
assets will be required.
ix.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of 50% of the project
costs, i.e. US$12.5 million equivalent, to the Somali Democratic Republic on
the usual terms. The amount of the credit will be increased by the outstand-
ing balance on Credit S5-SO to enable that credit to be refunded. The amount
expected to be outstanding at the time of credit effectiveness is US$450,000.



SOMALIA
APPRAISAL OF MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Somali Democratic Republic has requested the
Association and the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) to finance the
construction of a new deep-water protected port at Mogadiscio to replace the
existing uneconomic lighterage port. The Government gives the highest prior-
ity to this project in its current economic development program.
1.02      Because of chronic Government budgetary deficits and shortage of
local currency, the Government has requested 100% financing. FED have agreed
to this, and FED and the Association will contribute equally to the total
project cost. FED's financial contribution will be in the form of a grant
to the Government. Administration and supervision of the project will be
undertaken jointly by the Association and FED; an Administration Agreement
has been negotiated between the Government, FED and the Association.
1.03      This will be the first Bank Group port project in Somalia.  In March
1965 the Association made a credit of US$6.2 million (74-SO), followed in June
1968 by a supplementary credit of US$2.3 million (123-SO), to help finance the
First Highway Project, construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road which has now been
completed. The credits were supplemented by grants from FED and the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The project also included technical
assistance to set up a Civil Engineering Department in the Ministry of Public
Works and feasibility studies of two roads, including the Hiargeisa-Berbera
road. This road is the subject of the Second Highway Project, the total
cost of which is being financed by an IDA credit of US$9.6 million (295-SO),
signed March 30, 1972, and an African Development Bank loan of US$1 million.
(Map, IBRD 10007).
1.04      In February 1964 a Bank Group mission visited Somalia to review
a Government proposal to construct a deep-water port at Mogadiscio. In
November 1964 the Bank made a technical assistance grant of US$311,000
(Report No. R64-134) for a preliminary engineering study (which was carried
out by Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications lHydrauliques (SOGREAH,
France), to determine the suitability of the existing shallow draft
harbor for development or, alternatively, a suitable location for a new port.
In February 1967, SOGREAH produced a flexible master plan for an extendable
seven-berth port, behind a breakwater, to be located about 1-1/2 km southwest
of the existing port (Map IBRD 3015). An IDA appraisal mission in May/June
1967 resulted in an engineering credit of US$550,000 (S5-SO) (March 3, 1969)
for detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents for a two-
berth first phase of the master plan, based on then-current traffic forecasts.
The tender documents were completed in 1970. The credit also included
consultants' services awarded to Associated Industrial Consultants Ltd.
(AIC, UK), to install accounting systems and train accounting staff.
The outstanding balance on Credit S5-SO, expected to amount to US$450,000
will be refunded by increasing the IDA credit by this amount.



- 2 -
1.05      Reappraisal of the port construction project was delayed until
November/December 1971, largely because of uncertainties after the change in
government in 1969 and the effect of the closure of the Suez Canal. The
time lapse between the 1967 and 1971 appraisals necessitated a complete
review of the project. Traffic forecasts now justify two general cargo
berths, a banana berth and a livestock loading dolphin berth, all of which
can be contained within the breakwater needed for two berths; also an ad-
jacent area formerly used by the military has now become available allowing
a better layout for the land area and access to the new port. Modifica-
tions and additions to the original design, including the banana berth and
the dolphin berth, were discussed and agreed between the Government, FED,
the Association and the consultants. These revisions form the basis of the
proposed project which also includes a tug, cargo-handling equipment and
technical assistance for management, accounting and operations. The total
project cost is estimated at US$25.0 million equivalent, based on SOGREAH's
detailed engineering estimates for the civil works.
1.06      The Ministry of Public Works will be responsible for executing the
project, with the assistance of consulting engineers, on behalf of the Somali
Port Authority (SPA), an autonomous Government agency responsible for all
seaports in Somalia; there is a project agreement with SPA.
1.07      In November/December 1971, a mission composed of Messrs. A. H. Clark
(financial analyst), H. van Helden (engineer - consultant), J. Bigosinski
(economist - consultant) and G. Okurume (economist) visited Somalia to appraise
the project. Mr. Clark paid a further visit to Somalia in March 1972. This
report is based on their findings.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Somalia's 640,000 km2 (about the size of Spain and Portugal combined)
consist largely of sparse grazing land and desert. Only about 13% of the land
is suitable for cultivation, and this lies, for the most part, between the
Giuba and Scebeli rivers in the southern part of the country where irrigation
is possible. Natural resources are scarce and the economy is dependent on the
export of livestock (and livestock products) and bananas which account for 60%
and 30%, respectively, of export earnings. Budget deficits have been a con-
tinuing feature, financed by Italian budgetary support and foreign develop-
ment aid. Per capita income is one of the lowest in the world.
2.02      The population, estimated at between 2.5 million and 3 million, is
largely nomadic. The highest concentrations are around Mogadiscio (225,000),
the capital, commercial center and chief import port, and in the northern
Hargeisa/Berbera area. The arid nature of the country, the low level of eco-
nomic activity, and the sparseness of the population between distant popula-
tion centers combine to make the provision of a transport system adequate to
development needs a formidable problem.



-3-
B.   The Transport Sector
General
2.03      The exploitation of Somalia's limited resources has been inhibited
by lack of adequate transportation facilities, particularly ports and good
roads between inland livestock-raising areas and the ports. The transport
system is in the early stages of development. Many areas are not accessible
by motor vehicles for much of the year. There is no railway, and air services
are minimal. There are two (recently completed) deep-water ports, at Berbera
in the north and Chisimaio in the south; Mogadiscio is served by an inefficient,
uneconomic, lighterage port. For all modes freight and passenger densities
are light.
Road Transport
2.04      The road network comprises about 16,000 km of which less than 1,000
km are bituminous surfaced roads. Long distances and light traffic densities
make road projects difficult to justify economically although they are
necessary to ensure national unity and administrative accessibility. In addi-
tion to the Afgoi-Baidoa highway, providing a road link from lIogadiscio through
the center of its service area, the Hargeisa-Berbera road and a feasibility
study of the Borama-Hargeisa road, all IDA financed, a 1,045 km road is
programmed from Belet Uen in the central region, from which there is a road
to Mogadiscio, to Burao in the north; this road is to be financed by the
People's Republic of China. About 15,300 motor vehicles were registered in
1970, of which about two-thirds were cars. Motor vehicle registrations have
grown at 6% per annum in recent years.
Air Transport
2.05      Somalia is beginning to develop its domestic air transport system
Somali Airlines) to connect scattered urban areas with Mogadiscio and now
has direct flights between Mogadiscio and twelve other centers. Domestic
freight transport reached only 321 tons and domestic passenger movements
18,000 in 1969, growing at an annual average rate of 34% and 19% respectively
in recent years. International airlines have scheduled flights connecting
Mogadiscio with Europe, the Middle East and North and East Africa. Between
1965 and 1969, international freight traffic (166 tons in 1969) grew at
an annual rate of about 34% and passenger traffic (10,000 in 1969) at
about 26%.
Ports
2.06      Somalia has 27 ports along the more than 3,000 km of coastline,
including four major ones at Berbera, Chisimaio, Merca and Mogadiscio. New
ports have recently been built at Berbera in the north and Chisimaio in the
south, with the help of international aid (para 7.03), and now have sheltered
deep-water facilities. Mogadiscio and Merca are lighterage ports open to the
Indian Ocean with its rough sea and seasonal high swells. The four major



- 4 -
ports account for more than 95% of Somalia's oceanborne foreign commerce.
There is little coastal traffic and virtually no passenger traffic. Mogadiscio,
the principal import port, handles about two-thirds of the country's imports
but normally only about 5% of its exports. Berbera is the only major port
on Somalia's northern coast and the principal outlet for livestock exports.
Merca and Chisimaio, located respectively 90 km and 500 km south of Mogadiscio,
are primarily banana export ports but also handle small quantities of imports;
Chisimaio also exports livestock and meat products and handles, during the
southwest monsoon season, some import cargo destined for Mogadiscio. The
relative importance of individual ports is shown in Table 1. Information
on the new ports at Berbera and Chisimaio is given in Annex 1.
Mogadiscio Port Service Area
2.07      The service area of tIogadiscio comprises the most productive part
of the country and has the greatest potential for economic development. It
covers the greater part of the southern region, including the administrative
regions of Benadir (including Mogadiscio), Urpper Giuba, Hiran, and part of
Mudugh; it does not extend to Lower Giuba, for which Chisimaio is the port,
but it includes the area between the Giuba and Scebeli rivers, which has the
highest average rainfall in the country. An important livestock-raising area
lies in the more northern part of the southern region. The highway system
has been improved to serve the area but this has not been matched by improve-
ments in the port. This is a serious constraint on economic development.
Mogadiscio port is also a potential outlet for landlocked regions of south-
eastern Ethiopia.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.08      Four Ministries are concerned with the transport sector:  the
Hinistry of Planning and Coordination; the Ministry of Public Works, through
its Department of Civil Engineering, responsible for planning and constructing
transport infrastructure and for highway maintenance; the Ministry of Transport
for vehicle registration and control; and the Ministry of the Interior for
traffic control. No Government agency exists to oversee the functioning of
the whole sector. While there is no pressing need at present for an agency
for intermodal coordination, sectoral planning will eventually become more
important as transport demand increases.
2.09      In the current tlhree-year Development Program (1971-73) the Govern-
ment has allocated So.Sh 353 million, or 35% of the total development budget,
to the transport and communications sector. The most important items are
the proposed 1,045 km road (So.Sh 95 million) between Belet Uen and Burao
to be financed by the People's Republic of China, the Association's Highway
II Project (So.Sh 52 million), the I4ogadiscio port construction project
(So.Sh 76 million), and a telecommunicationis project (So.Sh 40 million).
These items account for 85% of the sector's total budget.



- 5-
D.   Government Policy for Autonomous Agencies
2.10      The Government has reviewed the financial situation of public
agencies in the context of development fund requirements and availability.
In the past the public sector has suffered from a lack of savings in the
form of cash generated surplus to the requirements of individual agencies,
while, at the same time, there has been some wastage of resources because
of a lack of skill in management and especially financial management.
The Government is unable to provide necessary capital out of its budgetary
resources; it is also aware that some agencies are better able to generate
cash resources than others. Unless these resources are controlled, they
will not be put to the best use for the country's economy and may encourage
wasteful expenditure and neglect of cost control. Pricing policies are
also distorted in some cases by excessive depreciation charges which have
been used to reduce liability to income tax.
2.11      The Government has now passed a law (Law No. 58), which came into
effect on January 1, 1973, on the Finances of Public Enterprises and Agencies.
Its main provisions are the following:
(a) Responsibility for strict financial management and economic
operations is imposed on each enterprise through the General
Manager, Chief Accountant and Financial Officer.
(b) The Mlagistrate of Accounts is responsible for auditing the
accounts.
(c) Income tax for the enterprises is replaced by a turnover tax,
assessed on sales and services; the percentage for each year
is fixed by the Ministry of Finance.
(d) Annual investment estimates and finance plans must be
prepared.
(e) Caslh generated annually, surplus to the enterprise's require-
ments, is paid to the Government; this comprises the balance
of profits after specified appropriations and a share of
depreciation for development as fixed by the Ministry of
Finance on the basis of the finance plan.
2.12      In general, the law lays down acceptable principles.  The Secretary
of State for Finance is responsible for issuing regulations and implementing
the law. The policy underlying the law is reasonable and acceptable. It
will help to ensure the optimum use of scarce capital resources and encourage
good financial management; in particular, capital recovered through depreciation
will be available for reinvestment according to the priority needs of the
country's development program. It will also ensure that enterprises will
not accumulate large cash reserves beyond their individual requirements.



- 6 -
III. PORT ORGANIZATION AND ADMIINISTRATION
A.   Organization and Management
3.01      The Somali Port Authority (SPA), an autonomous agency, was created
in 1962 and reconstituted under Law No. 70 of November 22, 1970, under the
supervision of the Secretary of State for Transport, who can give directives
in matters affecting the interests of the State. SPA's object is to promote
the development of all of the country's ports; its functions are comprehensive
and it has all necessary powers to carry out those functions. It has power
to issue regulations, including the fixing of tariffs.
3.02      Until recently, responsibility within SPA for all policy making
decisions and executive action resided solely in an Extraordinary Commissioner
of Ports, although the law governing autonomous agencies (Law No. 16 of April
1, 1970) provides for either a sole executive head or a board of directors.
There was no management team, and the twelve department heads, with no
interrelationship among them, reported directly to the Commissioner. The
Extraordinary Commissioner and the four Ministries concerned agreed that SPA's
organization must be improved, and the Government has recently amended Law
No. 70 so as to restructure SPA's organization along lines agreed with the
Association, i.e., to provide for a Board of Directors and a General Manager.
3.03      With respect to accounting, SPA has failed to benefit fully from
the accounting systems introduced and the staff training undertaken by the
accounting consultants (AIC) provided under S5-SO. The principal reasons
for this identified by the consultants are:
(a) a lack of understanding and interest in the use and value of
management information systems and statistical data on the
part of top management;
(b) the transfer of trained accounting and statistical staff to
other posts; and
(c) failure to appoint a qualified and experienced financial
director.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that management consultants
satisfactory to the Association will be appointed to review the present
organization and administration and to recommend improvements; these consul-
tants will be employed under the project. The Government also agreed to con-
sult with the Association regarding appointments to the positions of General
1-Ianager and Financial Manager of SPA and to ensure that, at all times, the
SPA's operations are carried out under a qualified and experienced managerial
staff.



7-
B.   SPA's Functions
3.04      Originally, SPA's function was to provide port facilities only
and its principal source of revenue was an ad valorem harbor tax (para.
7.01). Later, SPA took over stevedoring at all ports and lighterage and
shore handling at Mogadiscio and Merca, shore handling at Berbera and
Chisimaio continuing in private hands on payment to SPA of a tonnage royal-
ty. On January 1, 1971, SPA also took over shore handling at Berbera and
Chisimaio and now provides all port services. From the same day, ware-
housing and storage charges, collected by customs and previously paid over
to the Government, were paid to SPA, which now receives all port revenues.
C.   Port Regulations
3.05      Comprehensive port regulations have not yet been promulgated.  The
need for these is recognized and a United Nations Adviser on Maritime Law is
currently engaged in preparing them. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to issue comprehensive port regulations applicable to all ports under
SPA's jurisdiction not later than December 31, 1973.
D.   Accounting Systems, Audit and Insurance
3.06      Considering the short period of training available to AIC and the
subsequent transfer of some of the trained staff, the financial accounting
section is carrying out its functions well. Accounts are audited by the
Magistrate of Accounts.
3.07      The consultants (AIC) were required to make recommendations for
changes in the schedule of port charges after determining the costs of pro-
viding the various port services. They concluded that only two operating
cost centers are necessary (cargo handling and all other) and recommended a
tariff related to an ad valorem tax, rather than one related to various ser-
'ces and their costs as favored by the Government. As a result, the costing
systems introduced are little more than budgetary-control systems. This is
unsatisfactory and it is essential for the ports to have a tariff structure
covering the principal facilities and services used by ships and cargo respec-
tively and with charges based on costs. During negotiations it was agreed
that SPA's tariff policy will be based on costs (para 7.15).
3.08      SPA's internal audit section is moderately competent, but with the
expansion of SPA's functions and particularly in anticipation of the project
port, the section requires expansion and additional training and upgrading.
3.09     Additional management consulting services are required, and
are included in the project, to:
(a) make a new appraisal of the tariff structure witlh recommenda-
tions for amendments;



- 8 -
(b) review and improve as necessary the financial and cost account-
ing, statistical and management information systems introduced
by AIC, and their implementation by SPA;
(c) review the ability of staff in the accounting, statistical and
internal audit departments, and to plan and undertake additional
training programs; and
(d) conduct seminars for top management in the use of management
information systems.
3.10      During negotiations, the SPA agreed that its accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year will be audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association and that copies of the audited financial statements
and the auditor's report will be submitted to the Association within four
months after the end of each fiscal year. The UK Government has provided
the services of an expert for two years to set up within the Magistrate of
Accounts' Department a special unit to audit the accounts of autonomous
agencies, including SPA's. If the expert is successful in setting up and
training an adequate audit unit, audit by the Department would be acceptable
as an independent audit.
3.11     SPA has no insurance, in spite of its substantial assets; the
extent of its public liability risks is uncertain. During negotiations SPA
agreed to engage competent insurance experts to advise on insurable risks
borne by SPA and, by .iarch 31, 1974, to insure, to the Association's satis-
faction, against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound business practices.
IV. THE PROJECT PORT
A.   Existing Facilities
4.01      The existing port is a lighterage harbor, protected from the south-
east by a 500 m breakwater but open to the southwest (Map IBRD-3015). Lighters
are discharged or loaded at four finger jetties running at right angles to the
shore, and by a berth approximately 100 m long on the landward end of the
breakwater. Storage shed area is adequate but, as floors are about 1 m above
ground, cargo-handling equipment such as forklift trucks and tractor-trailers
cannot enter and must reload at the platforms.
4.02      Because of erosion of the adjacent shallow sandy coast and the
absence of breakwater protection against southwest waves and currents, the
harbor is silting up. Tidal range is about 3 m, and with depths varying from
0.5 to 2 m below low water within the port area, several finger piers, and
sometimes the main berth, are unusable by lighters at low tides. The small
dredge available cannot keep pace with siltation.



-9-
B.   Operations
4.03      SPA undertakes all cargo-handling operations, stevedoring, light-
erage and shore handling.  Mlost labor is casual, engaged by the SPA on piece-
work. SPA's handling equipment consists of 14 lighters of 60 to 120 tons
with another six 120-ton lighters on order, five launch-tugs, 10 mobile
cranes, six tractors and 20 trailers, and three forklift trucks. Deep-water
vessels anchor in the open sea about 1 km from the entrance of the lighterage
harbor. Lighterage operations in an open roadstead, always cumbersome, are
particularly so in Mlogadiscio where the sea is nearly always choppy.  Heavy
storms are rare, but frequent swells result from storms elsewhere in the
Indian Ocean. During the southwest monsoon, from mid-May to October, es-
pecially from June through September, there are many days when work is im-
possible, and some cargo is diverted to Chisimaio (see Chapter 6, Economic
Evaluation). On many days adjacent hatches cannot be worked simultaneously
at the lee side of the vessel. Night stevedoring is impracticable. Opera-
tions at ship side result in accidents to personnel and losses and damage
to cargo which suffers further damage during unloading onto the quay.
4.04      Ship discharge rates have improved over the past year, reducing
ship time in port; rates average between 200 and 400 tons per day per ship,
depending on weather conditions and type of cargo. However, unloading from
ship's hook requires little time since cargo is more or less dumped into
lighters and has to be re-sorted in the lighterage harbor. The new manage-
ment has improved the dock labor system.  All casual labor is now organized
in gangs which are called forward in rotation as required. Supervision has
been tightened up.
4.05     iNevertheless, in general, cargo handling is primitive in spite
of considerable mechanization (para. 4.03); there is no palletization or
preslinging, and every parcel is handled manually several times, aboard
nip, aboard lighter, at the pier and in the sheds. Considerable improve-
ments in efficiency and reduction of damage are possible with relatively
small investments for pallets, nets and slings and with improvements of
pavements on the piers and in the sheds. Technical assistance by experi-
enced port operations consultants is included in the project, initially
using the existing port as a training ground for efficient cargo-handling
operations in the proposed new port. Skilled and semi-skilled labor,
such as supervisors and crane and forklift operators, should be carefully
selected and trained. The proposed technical assistance will include such
training and will also help users of the future port decide how to handle
and ship special cargoes, such as bananas, most efficiently. The consultants
will also be responsible for recommending the quantities and types of equip-
ment required and for assistance in procurement.
C.   Facilities Required
4.06      In planning for a new port, adequate facilities should be provided
to handle volumes and types of cargo expected for five or six years after
port completion (in the case of Mogadiscio, to be completed in 1976, through



- 10 -
at least 1981). Traffic growth over the following five years should also be
considered. Assuming reasonably efficient operations, a mixed general cargo
throughput of 1,000 tons per meter of berth per annum, or 160,000 tons per
160 m berth, should be achieved after a few years' experience. At Mogadiscio,
the volume of total dry cargo for 1977 is forecast to be 382,000 tons, in-
cluding 103,000 tons of bananas, which would be more than the capacity of
two berths, making a third, specifically for bananas, necessary. By 1981
general cargo, excluding bananas and livestock, would reach about 330,(00
tons, about the capacity of two berths, bananas will be about 180,000 tons
and livestock 18,000 tons. By 1986 general cargo (excluding bananas and
livestock) is expected to be about 400,000 tons. It is probable that, with
the new port coming into use, the present world trend to cargo unitization
(e.g. on pallets, in containers, etc.) will apply at 1!ogadiscio; this, to-
gether with increasing productivity through experience, may increase the
capacity of the two berths.
4.07      The capacity of the banana bertlh can be increased with the intro-
duction of loading equipment as traffic growth justifies it. With adequate
equipment, the one berth could handle the maximum projected volume of banana
exports of 240,000 tons expected in 1986 and may also take some general cargo
during peak periods. Livestock exports must be separated from bananas and
general cargo because of ecological and sanitary problems and a simple ramp-
loading arrangement to a dolphin mooring berth is adequate.
4.08      In addition to possible use for lighterage in times of congestion
of the new port, the existing port will continue to be of operational use
for storage, berthing harbor craft, and fishing boats and perhaps for
a small-boat shipyard and maintenance area. In any event, it must be im-
proved and siltation controlled if it is to be able to continue to handle
lighterage traffic until the new port is constructed. Some capital invest-
ment is urgently required, and SOGREAH have recommended construction of a
lee mole to protect the harbor entrance and dredging of the harbor, at an
estimated cost of US$400,000 equivalent. During negotiations, the SPA
agreed to take all measures which are necessary or advisable to ensure, to
the satisfaction of the Association, the improvement and the continued and
efficient use of the present harbor at least during the construction period
of the project. SPA will finance this work,
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Description
5.01      The project comprises the first stage of the master plan (para. 1.04)
for the development of a new port at Mogadiscio. It includes the following:
(a) the construction of a 770 m breakwater, two berths of 160 m and
one of 140 m, a dolphin berth for mooring livestock vessels, a
marshalling area for livestock, an access road, paved areas, two
transit sheds, one warehouse and ancillary buildings;



- 11 -
(b) the provision of harbor and navigational aids and cargo-handling
equipment; and
(c) technical assistance and engineering services by consultants.
Details of the new port are described in Annex 2 and shown graphically in
the attached drawing.
Technical Features
5.02      After a brief survey had confirmed that no better location exists
reasonably near Ilogadiscio, a hydrographic survey was made at the proposed
site over a full year, covering depth soundings, wind speeds and directions,
and tide, wave and current measurements. A hydraulic model based on these
data was built, on a 1:100 scale, first to compare alternative solutions,
such as an inner harbor versus an outer harbor basin, and thereafter to
determine the optimum location of the breakwater. The solution arrived at
proved to be the least expensive solution meeting acceptable standards.
The civil works are a first three-berth stage of the master plan; the break-
water can be extended in two further stages of about 200 m each, and two
berths can be added with each extension, one alongside the breakwater and
one on the landward side. Berths of varying lengths and depths may be
added later.
5.03      Since no rivers enter the sea in this area of the Somali coast,
siltation is due to the littoral drift of sand only and not mud. The seabed
is stable because of low tidal current velocities and large areas of coral
or limestone. Very little maintenance dredging will therefore be required.
Soil conditions in general are favorable, and no particular foundation pro-
blems are envisaged. Ample drillings and soil tests have been made at the
site, for the location of material for fill, and at a quarrysite for rock
to be used for the breakwater core.
Technical Assistance
5.04      Technical assistance (paras. 3.09 and 4.05) will start while the
present lighterage port is still in use and continue after the new port has
become operational, since accounting and operations under present conditions
are only partly relevant to the new port. The number of foreign experts
required is relatively small but their assignments are likely to be spread
over a three to four-year period. Altogether, some 100 man-months of tech-
nical assistance are foreseen. To ensure coordination and consistency, the
work will be undertaken by a management consultancy firm experienced in port
operations and satisfactory to the Association.
Engineering Services
5.05      The Government, with the agreement of FED and the Association,
instructed SOGREAII to (a) review the original two-berth layout and design,
(b) revise and update the cost estimates, (c) undertake the detailed design



- 12 -
for the third berth and dolphin bertlh, and (d) assist with the prequalifica-
tion and tendering. This work is almost complete. SOGREAH will also be
responsible for construction supervision.
B.   Project Execution
5.06      The Department of Civil Engineering of the Ministry of Public
Works will be responsible for execution of the project on behalf of SPA.
Contracts for construction and procurement will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in conformity with Bank/IDA guidelines;
FED has waived its usual requirement that such contracts be restricted to
its members. There is some small but inexperienced contracting capability
in Somalia, and it is expected that such contractors might be retained by
a foreign main contractor in a subcontracting capacity. While, as a signatory
to the Yaounde Convention, Somalia allows proferential duties to member and
associate member countries of the European Economic Community, it has been
agreed between the Government, FED and the Association that for the purpose of
comparing bids, any import duties or other local taxes will be excluded.
The civil works construction period is expected to last about three years
from arrival on site.
5.07      All land needed for the project is owned by the Government and is
available. A report dated 1971 by Studio Architetti Ingegneri Specializzati
on the development of the Mogadiscio urban area, financed by FED, accepts the
siting of the project port in its recommendations.
5.08      The project is not expected to affect adversely fish and other
marine plant and animal life in the area. It could, however, create some
environmental problems relating to (a) the city's existing sewerage marine
outflow, (b) disposal of the animal wastes from the livestock marshalling
yards, (c) control of vermin, (d) treatment of ships' oily ballast waste and
(e) avoidance of coastal erosion. To the extent possible, these problems
have been minimized in the detailed port design. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to take all reasonable measures to ensure that execution
and operation of the project are carried out with due regard to ecological
and environmental factors.



- 13 -
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
5.09      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.0 million with
a foreign exchange component of about 82%. Details are given in Table 2 and
summarized below:
So.Sh Ilillion            US$ flillion           %
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign Total   Foreign
Civil Works             31.1      128.4    159.5    4.5       18.5  23.0      80.5%
Engineering Supervision 0.7         6.2       6.9    0.1       0.9   1,0      89.5%
31.8     134.6    166.4    4.6       19.4  24.0      80.9%
Operating Equipment      -          4.2      4.2      -        0.6   0.6    100.0%
Technical Assistance    0.1         1.9       2.0    0.0       0.3   0.3      95.0%
31.9     140.7    172.6    4.6       20.3  24.9      81.5%
Project costs are net of taxes and duties. The cost estimate for civil works
is based on costs derived by SOGREAH from their detailed engineering and in-
cludes allowances for engineering quantities (6%) and price contingencies
(12%). Foreign exchange costs are high because Somalia lacks most construc-
tion materials; suitable rock is not available for breakwater armoring to
protect the surface and concrete tetrapods will have to be used.
5.10      The above cost estimates were carefully reviewed during project
appraisal and found to be reasonable. Given, however, the uncertainties
involved in construction in Somalia, the inability of the Government to
-ontribute to project costs should there be a shortfall in available funds,
and the desirability of maintaining the respective shares of IDA and FED
in the financing and supervision of the project, the Government proceeded
with the prequalification and tendering of civil works prior to Board pre-
sentation. Bids have now been received and suggest that the contract price
will be well within the cost estimates.
5.11      Project costs will be met by equal contributions from FED and the
Association. Disbursements under the FED grant and IDA credit will be made
pari passu and will cover 100% of the cost of civil works, equipment, tech-
nical assistance and engineering services up to a total of US$25.0 million
equivalent. Some minor retroactive financing for detailed engineering, in
excess of the funds available in Credit S5-SO, will be required, estimated
at US$30,000. The IDA credit of US$12.95 includes its share of project costs
(US$12.5 million) plus US$450,000 for refunding the outstanding balance of
Credit S5-SO. An estimated schedule of disbursements under the IDA credit
is shown in Table 3. Surplus funds remaining in the credit account upon
completion of the project will be cancelled.



- 14 -
VI. ECONOlIC EVALUATION
A.   Traffic Forecasts
6.01      The construction of a protected deep-water port with alongside
berths at togadiscio will provide more efficient and less costly service
than the present port and even than some other Somali ports for some of their
cargo, resulting in substantial amounts of both diverted and generated traffic
in the new port. Specifically, all cargo now handled by the banana lighterage
port of Merca will transfer to Mogadiscio, which will also recapture live
animal exports originating in its hinterland now going through the northern
port of Berbera. Also, with a deep-water port at Mogadiscio, general cargo
imports destined for the capital area will no longer have to be unloaded at
the southern port of Chisimaio during the southwest monsoon season. As a
result, dry cargo traffic using Mogadiscio port is expected to increase
from an annual average of 160,000 tons in 1970-1971 to about 525,000 tons
in 1981 and 660,000 tons in 1986. The basis of the forecast is given in
Annex 3, and the detailed projections are shown in Table 4.
B.   Evaluation of Benefits
6.02      Detailed information on methodology and data used in the economic
justification are given in Annex 4. Table 5 gives estimates of benefits of
livestock diversion and Table 6 the annual flow of estimated benefits and
costs.
6.03      Project benefits will commence in 1976 and continue for the use-
ful life of the new port facilities, estimated at 40 years. However, no in-
creases in annual benefits are expected for banana exports after 1985 (since
maximum exports are expected to be reached then) or for other dry cargo after
1986, when further growth of traffic would require additional facilities to
avoid ship and cargo congestion and economic losses. Total quantifiable pro-
ject benefits are estimated at US$3.3 million in 1977, are expected to in-
crease to US$5.2 million by 1986, and have been assumed to remain constant
at that level for the remainder of the project port's life. The following
is a summary of the estimated quantifiable project benefits in 1977 and 1986,
shown in more detail in Table 6.



- 15 -
(US$, 000)
Source                                   1977        1986
Shipping surcharge savings              1,723       2,465
Reduction in cargo losses               1,082       1,491
Import diversion (Chisimaio)              207         398
Banana export cost savings                 180        422
Livestock diversion (Berbera)               60        375
Total                         3,252      5,151
6.04      The first and largest source of savings (all in foreign exchange)
will be the elimination of a port surcharge of US$5.80 - 8.40 per ton of
dry cargo. Vessels calling at 'logadiscio impose this surcharge because of
the cost of extended time in port due to the unprotected anchorage and in-
efficient lighterage operations.  Cargo losses in Miogadiscio port attributa-
ble to present operations are conservatively estimated to average 1.5% of the
value of dry cargo imports and 0.5% of exports; the new port will virtually
eliminate these losses, most of which also involve foreign exchange. All of
the benefits will accrue to Somalia.
6.05      Benefits from traffic diversion are expected from dry cargo imports
and livestock exports. Dry cargo imports destined for Ilogadiscio are fre-
quently unloaded at Chisimaio and trucked 500 km overland to the M4ogadiscio
area., at a cost of about US$14.75 per ton, during the southwest monsoon season
wThen cargo handling at Mogadiscio becomes particularly hazardous. The new
,t will eliminate this practice.  Because of inadequate facilities, the
present port of Mogadiscio now handles only a fraction of the livestock
exports originating in its hinterland. MIost animals from the area are
transported on the hoof, at substantial cost, to the recently constructed
port of Berbera some 1,250 km north of Mogadiscio. Diversion of this traffic
will improve the quality of livestock exports and offer the potential for
higher prices for the animals. Traffic diversion to the new port will in
both cases result in substantial savings to the Somali economy.
6.06      The present use of the lighterage port of Merca for banana exports
from the Afgoi-Genale area results in substantial costs in ship waiting time
and in damage to and loss of banana cargo. Construction of a banana berth
in Mogadiscio and termination of banana exports through Merca will reduce
ship waiting time and cargo losses, though these savings will be partly offset
by additional land transport costs. The indicated benefits are the net annual
savings attributable to the transfer of banana export operations from t4erca
to Mogadiscio, and will accrue to Somalia through adjustments in port charges.



- 16 -
6.07      Other benefits will include those arising from generated traffic,
and from the undoubted advantages to tile economy of a more reliable and ef-
ficient port facility. However, no meaningful estimate of these benefits was
possible, and they have not been included in the cost-benefit evaluation of
the project.
C.   Economic Cost of the Project
6.08      For the purpose of economic evaluation, the economic cost of the
project is estimated at US$22.66 million, that is, the estimated total cost
(US$25.0 million) less price contingencies. The annual maintenance cost is
estimated at 1% of the capital cost. It must be emphasized that, while all
project-connected costs have been allocated to this project, several impor-
tant cost elements such as the breakwater, access road and administrative
facilities will directly benefit future stages of the port development
program.
D.   Economic Return
6.09      On the basis of the quantifiable benefits and economic costs dis-
cussed above, the economic return on the investment in the project is esti-
mated, on conservative assumptions, at about 15%, demonstrating that it is
economically justified. The first year return is 11%, fully justifying the
timing of the project. Some 75% of the savings are in foreign exchange and
the present value of such savings over the 40-year assumed life of the proj-
ect exceeds the foreign exchange costs; thus the project will more than self-
finance the foreign exchange cost.
6,10      In order to test the sensitivity of the economic return to changes
in the important parameters, a further analysis was undertaken by varying
costs upward and benefits downward. The results (given in Annex 4, para. 18)
show that, even with a 10% increase in project costs combined with a 25% drop
in benefits, the economic return will exceed 11%. However, bids received in-
dicate that project costs are likely to be at least 20% below estimates which
suggests a return of close to 18%.
E.   Employment Effects
6.11      The expected expansion in overall port traffic, following provision
of the new port at Mogadiscio, will be accompanied by substantial increases
in the total port labor force, but an initial problem will be created by the
transfer of banana traffic from Merca, where some 600 port workers will lose
their jobs. The Government is anticipating this problem, however, and is
taking active steps to increase employment in the area. The nation-wide
"crash program," which combines training with paid labor on self-help schemes,
will be expanded locally, and increases in banana and grapefruit cultivation
are planned. In addition, Merca will soon become the administrative capital
of a newly-created Lower Benadir region, which will also increase job
opportunities.



- 17 -
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A,,  Tariffs, Other Port Investments, Relending of External
Finance and Fixed Assets Valuation
Tariffs
7.01      The present tariffs are not based on costs, although in general
the tariff structure provides for charges for individual services and facil-
ities. Also, there is an ad valorem harbor tax of 1.5% on the value of all
cargo loaded or unloaded, except bananas; this tax is applied at all ports
whether lighterage or deep-sea. On the other hand no harbor dues are charged
on ships for the use of the harbor, as distinct from the berth, although such
charges would be justified at Chisimaio and to a lesser extent at Berbera to
recover the costs of dredging and breakwater construction. Upon completion
of construction of the new l4ogadiscio port similar charges would be justified
to cover the costs of constructing the harbor.
7.02      The principal charges at SPA ports are given in Table 7.  In gen-
eral, they are high, although it is difficult to compare charges at different
ports. A change from the present inefficient lighterage operation to an ef-
ficient modern deep-sea port will effect reductions in overall por,<t costs and
tariff reductions should be possible (para 7.13 and 7.14).
Other Port Investments and Relending of External Finance
7.03      Any evaluation of SPA's financial situation is affected by re-
cent and possibly premature investments at the ports of Berbera and Chisimaio.
At Berbera, construction was completed in 1968 of a new two-berth (320 m
quay) port, financed by the USSR at a cost of So.Sh 54 million (US$ 8 mil-
lion equivalent), out of development and commodity loans, as part of a gen-
eral program amounting to about So.Sh 375 million (US$54 million). At
iPisimaio, a new four-berth (619 m quay) port was completed between 1967-69,
financed by a USAID grant and a loan of US$ 1 million. The total cost of
the project was US$9.8 million (So.Sh 69.9 million at 1970 exchange rates).
Traffic forecasts indicate that these investments may have been premature by
some five to ten years. Details of the loans are given in Annex 5(a) and (b).
7.04      During meetings between representatives of the Association and FED
in July 1972, the question of relending the proposed IDA credit to SPA and
the treatment of other external financing in the capitalization of SPA was
discussed. FED would be unable to provide financing by way of a grant if
the Association's 50% contribution of the project cost were to be relent
to SPA on normal Bank terms. FED further considers that other external
Government borrowings for SPA should be relent to SPA on the same financial
terms as obtained by the Government and that grants should be passed on as
equity capital. This is an acceptable solution since it provides SPA with
a rational capital structure based on facts. Also, the financial forecasts
show that, in accordance with the new finance law (para. 2.11), SPA payments



- 18 -
to the Government by way of contributions from revenues and from depreciation,
representing repayments of equity capital, together with debt service calcu-
lated on the above basis will exceed what the debt service would be if the
credit were relent to SPA on Bank terms.
7.05      It was therefore agreed during negotiations that an exception would
be made to the general policy regarding relending the proceeds of IDA credits
and that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be entered into between the Bor-
rower and SPA whereby the credit proceeds will be relent on the same terms
as to payment of service charges and repayment of capital as contained in the
Development Credit Agreement. During negotiations the Government also agreed
that it will:
(a) lend to SPA the amount of the loans received from the USSR
applicable to the port of Berbera and the amount of the loan
received from the USA applicable to the port of Chisimaio
upon the same terms and conditions relating to interest and
repayment as are contained in the respective loan agreements
and
(b) treat as equity capital of SPA the amount of the grant received
from the USA applicable to the port of Chisimaio and the
proceeds of the proposed grant from FED.
Fixed Assets Valuation
7.06      AIC carried out an inventory of fixed assets and valuation as at
December 31, 1969. The basis of valuation was actual cost of the new invest-
ments at Berbera and Chisimaio and replacement cost for other fixed assets,
except land, less accumulated depreciation to that date. Nominal valuations
were ascribed to land, since all the land belongs to the Government and
there is no free market in land. The valuation is satisfactory.
B.   SPA's Financial Situation
7.07      Revenue accounts for 1969-1981 are given in Table 8, a statement
of the source and application of funds in Table 9, and balance sheets in
Table 10. Table 11 gives forecast debt service. Capitalization has been
assumed as agreed during negotiations (para. 7.05). Present tariffs and
levels of operating costs have been used in forecasting future revenue and
expenses. Other assumptions made are given in Annex 6.
7.08      In 1969 the cash operating surplus was insufficient to cover de-
preciation, and the operating ratio, including depreciation, was 110%. In
1970, reorganization of dock labor and improved supervision (para 4.04) and
improved cost control effected substantial savings in operating costs and
reduced the operating ratio to 79%. The takeover by SPA of shore handling
at Berbera and Chisimaio and of storage revenue in 1971 increased revenues
and expenses and resulted in all profits from shore handling operations
accruing to SPA, instead of a much smaller concession revenue; this, combined
with traffic growth, further reduced the operating ratio to 67%. However,



- 19 -
since traffic in 1971 was unusually heavy the operating ratios thereafter
are expected to stabilize at about 70% or less; such ratios are relatively
low, considering that SPA provides all cargo-handling services, and are an
indication of a general high level of tariff rates. Significant revenue
data are given below for representative years.
So.Sh Million
1969/1  1970L2:  1971  1973  1977-- 1979  1981
Operating revenues/3      17.6    19.5    34.8  35.6  48.7    54.1  60.9
Operating expenses        19.3    15.5    23.3  24.7  34.1    36.9  40.6
Operating surplus         (1.7)    4.0    11.5  10.9  14.6    17.2  20.3
Interest                            0.1     0.1   1.4   1.6      1.3   1.1
Income tax                          1.4     4.0
Turnover tax                                      3.6   4.9      5.4   6.1
Government
Development fund                    2.0     5.9   5.8   7.8    10.3  12.9
Net Surplus                         0.5     1.5   0.1   0.3      0.2   0.2
Operating ratio          110%       79%     67%   69%   70%      68%   67%
Interest coverage                  53x    137x   7.8x  9.4x   13.2x 18.8x
Debt service coverage              6.3x   11.2x   2.7x  3.6x    4.2x  4.9x
,-nancial return on
average net fixed
assets                          2.8%    8.2%   8.2% 5.2%       6.4%  7.9%
/1   Actual.
/2   First full year of use of new project facilities.
/3   Based on current tariffs.
7.09      All earnings criteria are satisfactory; the financial rate of re-
turn on average net fixed assets after completion of the project would reach
6% in 1979 and nearly 8% in 1981, in spite of the overinvestment at other
ports. Interest coverage is high because of soft interest terms on borrowing;
debt service coverage is ample because much of debt amortization is also on
soft terms. Operatino working capital is maintained by appropriations from
surplus. The fall in operating expenses in 1970 and increases in revenues
and expenses in 1971 are explained in para. 7.08.



- 20 -
7.10      Because of 100% FED/IDA financing of the project on country grounds,
SPA will not contribute directly to the financing of the project costs. It
will, however, generate funds during the construction period in excess of the
local currency costs of the project, estimated at about So.Sh 32 million, and
will pay to the Government some So.Sh 44 million (after meeting debt service)
by way of taxation, profit contributions and capital repayment. It will also
finance So.Sh 3.3 million for improvements to the existing port and for other
minor capital expenditure. An analysis of the source and application of funds
for the period 1970-1981 is given in Table 9, from which SPA's financing plan
for the project construction period 1973-1976 is summarized below.
So.Sh               US$
lillion             Million
Funds Required
Proposed project             173.12              25.0
Other capital expenditure    3.28                 0.5
176.40              25.5             %
Sources of Funds
Gross internal cash
generated                     71.52              10.3            40.4
Less:  Debt service        (24.02)             (3.5)          (13.6)
Turnover tax       (15.82)              (2.3)           (9.0)
Contribution to
Development    (27.74)              (4.0)          (15.7)
Capital Repayment  (0.79)              (0.1)            (0.4)
Net cash generated by SPA    3.15                 0.4             1.7
Less: Increase in cash
reserves          (2.99)             (0.4)           (1.6)
Net cash generated applied
to investments            0.16               0.0              0.1
FED grant                  86.56               12.5            49.1
IDA credit                 89.68               13.0            50.8
176.40              25.5           100.0%
7.11      Over the whole period, 1970-1981, SPA is expected to pay to the
Government So.Sh 51 million in income and turnover taxes, So.Sh 99 million
in development capital contributions and equity capital repayments, while
meeting all its commitments and increasing its cash reserves by So.Sh 16
million.



- 21 -
7.12      The balance sheets (Table 10) show a strong and continually improv-
ing financial position. Debt/equity ratios are acceptable, the highest point
after completion of the project being 42/58.
C.   Financial and Economic Objectives and Covenants
7,13      As stated in para 2.12 the Government's financial policy towards
SPA is acceptable. However, in considering the financial objectives that
ought to be required of SPA, as related to a rate of return on investment,
various matters should be considered:
(a) The present general level of port charges is high and should
be capable of being reduced after completion of the project
and introduction of efficient operating methods. Tariff
reductions would especially benefit exports which are highly
sensitive to port handling costs.
(b) The already acceptable financial rates of return derived from
the forecasts (5.2% in 1977, rising to 7.9% in 1981) are based
on inclusion of the full costs of the Chisimaio and Berbera
ports and full depreciation on them. If allowance is made for
overinvestment the comparable rates of return would be of the
order of 7% in 1977 rising to over 10% in 1981.
(c) After providing for the admittedly low interest charges on
relending borrowings on soft terms, the actual return to the
Government on its equity capital in the form of turnover tax
and profit appropriations is substantial, being 7.5% in 1977
and rising to 12.5% in 1981, on the present level of tariffs.
(d) Alternatively, if the profit appropriations are considered as
an additional return on borrowed money (as distinct from grants
or equity capital), for the year 1977 (the first full year
after completion of the project) in which the financial rate
of return is 5.2%, the profit appropriation added to actual
interest and service charges on debt would equal approximately
7% on that debt.
7.14      It is concluded that a minimum financial rate of return of 5% on
total average net fixed assets would enable SPA to maintain adequate working
capital and reserves, meet debt service and pay to the Government in one
form or another out of profits a reasonable return on investment.  Also,
after completion of the project there would be the opportunity to reduce
tariffs in areas where this would be of benefit to the economy.  At the same
time it is important to ensure that (a) the Government reaps the full benefit
from capital investment borrowings, including the proceeds of the IDA credit,
and that unnecessary cash operating surpluses are not retained by SPA or dis-
sipated in investments or expenses that would not benefit the economy, and
(b) that SPA will be able to retain sufficient funds for future investment
as they are required. During negotiations it was therefore agreed that:



- 22 -
(i)  all necessary steps shall be taken, including, where necessary,
revision of port tariffs, to ensure that SPA will earn a financial
rate of return of at least 5% on total average net fixed assets
in use;
(ii) the Association will be consulted prior to any capital
investment by SPA;
(iii) SPA will not incur any debt unless its net revenue for the
fiscal year or the 12 consecutive months immediately before
the date of occurrence, whichever is greater, would be at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any
succeeding year on all SPA debt;
(iv) Finance Law No. 58 will not be amended in any material
respect without prior consultation with the Association;
and
(v) the Association will be provided promptly with copies of all
regulations applicable to SPA issued under the Finance Law.
7.15      During negotiations, it was also agreed that SPA's tariff policy will
be:
(a) to levy dues and charges for the principal categories of
facilities and services provided, based on the costs of those
facilities and services;
(b) particularly as regards charges on cargo, to cover at least
the economic costs;
(c) to ensure that, so far as is reasonable and practical, the
economic savings and benefits from investments in the ports
that would otherwise accrue outside the economy of the
country are recovered; this applies principally to savings
and benefits enjoyed by foreign-owned ships; and
(d) in the event that the overall level of tariffs can be
reduced, the first beneficiaries should be export cargo.
VIII. ACTION TAKEN AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a) employment of consultants, improvement in organization
and management, and appointments of general managers and
financial managers (paras. 3.03 and 4.05);



- 23 -
(b) promulgation of port regulations (paras 3.05);
(c) audit and insurance (paras 3.10 and 3.11);
(d) improvement of the existing harbor (para 4.08);
(e) exclusion of customs duties and other taxes for bid
evaluation (para 5.06);
(f) protection of the environment (para 5.08);
(g) relending of credit proceeds to SPA on IDA terms; relending
of other port investment loans and treatment of grants as
equity capital (para 7.05);
(h) financial rate of return and other financial covenants
(para 7.14); and
(i) tariff policy (para 7.15).
8.02      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$12.5 million to the
Somali Democratic Republic, plus US$450,000, being the amount outstanding on
Credit S5-SO, making a total of US$12.95 million.
February 14, 1973






ANNEX 1
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
New Facilities at Other Main Ports
1.   BERBERA
Main berth                     300 m long
Maintenance berth               40 m2long
Quay area                   40,300 m2
Transit shed                 5,472 m
Breakwaters
Workshops, stores, etc.
Housing estate
Total cost                  So.Sh 53,972,000
Completed   1968
2.   CHISIMAIO
Dredging to 31 ft*
Berth and jetty*               619 m long
Breakwaters and causeway*            2
Banana conveyor shed**         521 m
Cargo shed, including                2
refrigerated store**   1,985 m
Administration buildings,
workshops, etc. **
Total cost                     So.Sh 69,917,047
* Completed 1967
** Completed 1969
February 14, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Main Project Characteristics
1.        As the natural depth of the open sea near the harbor entrance is
over 13 m at low low water (LLW), there is no need for a dredged entrance
channel. Along the quays, a depth of 10 m below LLIW has been chosen for the
two berths alongside the breakwater, and 8.5 m for the landward berth. These
depths will accommodate vessels with drafts of 9.5 m and 8 m respectively,
which is ample for the vessels expected to call at the port. The 10 m depth
will acconmodate most vessels of 15,000 dwt; because of depth limitations in
many ports all over the world, the trend towards larger vessels is reflected
in increasing length and width of vessels, rather than depth. The chosen
berth lengths (two of 160 m and one of 140 m) correspond with the above
depth; it is unlikely that more than one maximum-size vessel would have to be
accommodated at any one time. Spring highwater tide is 3.05 m above LLW and
may reach 3.75 m in exceptional cases. The crest of the quay wall is there-
fore 4.50 m above LL1-7.
2.     2  Two transit sheds along the deep quays and one warehouse, each of
5,000 m , will be sufficient to handle the cargo volumes expected in the
1980's. Another transit shed and/or air-conditioned banana storage shed at
the third berth can be added later should the need arise. A 15,000 m2
livestock marshalling yard can accommodate one shipload of livestock (cattle,
camels, sheep and goats), and its location is planned so that animals can
-each the walk-on loading ramp without crossing any traffic or other quays.
3.        Although the construction of the quay walls and aprons allows for
the installation of cranes, no such equipment is included in the project
since it is envisaged that ship's gear will be used. Buildings for the
port administration, customs and police, and utilities are included in the
project. Consideration was given to accommodating tankers for the supply
of petroleum products to the tank farm adjacent to the port area, but this
idea was abandoned because of the danger involved.
4.        The construction of the breakwater is conventional, consisting of
a rock-rubble core, covered at the seaside by heavy limestone blocks and
concrete tetrapods. To minimize wave action, damping embankments will be
constructed within the harbor basin where there are no quay walls. For the
quay walls the conventional construction with heavy concrete blocks has been
chosen; a sheet-piling construction was considered but was found to be more
expensive, and it could not be used for the landward berths where there are
rock layers through which sheet piling cannot penetrate. Even so, bidders



ANNEX 2
Page 2
will be allowed to submit bids for alternative types of construction for the
quay wall if they believe that such construction would be cheaper, and for
the sheds and warehouses which are designed with glued laminated timber spans.
5.        Pavings of roads and aprons and within sheds is to be of asphalt
concrete. Since the fill between breakwater and quay wall will be inserted
hydraulically using vibrators, little settlement is expected.
Equipment
6.        Procurement of 12 forklift trucks and a tug is included in the
project. SPA has sufficient mobile cranes and launches.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX 2
Att-Rohment
6X,
t:x5   "~~~~       ---0.00)-----
>  %.                                                                                        In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 0
(2(17  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   >~~~~~~~                    ~~                  ~        ~        ~        ~       AE MD"
(1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEA  LNO  ABU  OK






AMTEX 3
Page 1
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts
A.   Introduction
1.        Mogadiscio is primarily a foreign trade cargo port, handling only
a nominal volume of coastal cargo and virtually no passenger traffic. It is
the principal port for Somalia's imports which account for ovet 90% of dry
cargo moving through the port.
2.        Cereals are the most important dry cargo import commodity, followed
by cement, transport machinery and equipment and other general cargo. Dry
cargo exports consist of myrrh, animals and animal products and small quanti-
ties of general cargo. (Charcoal used to be Mogadiscio's most important ex-
port commodity but the export was banned in 1967 to preserve the scrub forests
badly needed to prevent further soil erosion.) Bulk oil imports are handled
through an offshore pipeline facility located adjacent to, but outside, the
port area.
3.        Dry cargo traffic (other than charcoal exports) through the port of
Mogadiscio increased erratically from 58,000 tons in 1961 to 98,000 tons in
1970, reaching or exceeding 125,000 tons in 1965 and again in 1969. Though
the data are not entirely comparable, the traffic volume was probably over
200,000 tons in 1971. A variety of reasons including recurrent droughts,
improvement of competing ports, balance of payments considerations, the
closure of the Suez Canal, development project needs and recent political
c_--velopments in Somalia explain the wide swings in Mogadiscio port traffic.
4.        Three other Somali ports will be affected by the proposed improve-
ments at Mogadiscio: Chisimaio, Berbera and the lighterate port of Merca.
Merca and Chisimaio are banana export ports but also handle small quantities
of general imports, mostly related to banana industry needs. In addition,
Chisimaio with its modern port facilities handles, during the southwest
monsoon season, some cargo imports destined for the Mogadiscio area. Berbera
is Somalia's principal port for live animal exports.
B.   Traffic Forecasts
5.        The construction of a new port at Mogadiscio will facilitate the
movement and spur the growth of cargo through the port and will also provide
a more efficient and economic alternative to some of the cargo using other
Somali ports. Specifically, it will handle all cargo going through the
present banana lighterage port of Merca and will recapture its share of live
animal exports now using the port of Berbera. Also, it will no longer be
necessary for general cargo imports destined for Mogadiscio to unload at
the port of Chisimaio during the southwest monsoon season. Finally, it is
anticipated that less costly and more efficient operations at the new port



ANNEX 3
Page 2
will generate marginal traffic that would not otherwise materialize. As a
result of these developments, it is estimated that dry cargo traffic using
the port would increase from an annual average of 160,000 tons in 1970-71
to over 525,000 tons in 1981 and 660,000 tons in 1986 (Table 4).
C.   Normal Traffic
6.        Dry cargo forecasts are based on the average 1970-71 data to mini-
mize the distorting effect of the wide variations between 1970 and 1971.
Separate forecasts are prepared for cereal imports, general cargo imports,
and general cargo exports. General cargo imports are expected to grow at
an average annual rate of 10%, as in the recent past, until 1976, at 7%
during 1976-81 and at 5% thereafter.  This is a conservative assumption;
a considerably faster growth rate is possible if the new government is suc-
cessful in realizing Somalia's economic development potential and after in-
creased banana export earnings enlarge the country's capacity to import.
Imports of cereals should increase at a much lower and falling' rate until
about 1975 when total cereal imports will begin to decline rapidly as gov-
ernment-instituted programs to make Somalia self-sufficient in food produc-
tion take effect. In the absence of definite programs to broaden and diversify
the area's export base, general cargo exports other than live animals and
bananas are expected to grow at an average rate of 5% annually.
D.   Traffic Diversion from Merca
7.        The lighterage port of Merca, located some 90 km south of Mogadiscio,
serves as an export facility for bananas grown in the Afgoi-Genale area. For
economic reasons discussed in Chapter 6 (para. 6.06), banana exports will be
diverted to the improved port of Mogadiscio and the port of Merca will cease
operations. Merca also handles small volumes of imports related to the needs
of the banana industry. Most important of the latter are cardboard boxes and
plastic wrapping used for banana packing, which are to be produced locally,
thus eliminating the need for future imports.
8.        Banana exports through Merca have declined from the 1965 level of
62,000 tons to about 40,000 tons a year, but this is due in part to improved
packing techniques which have reduced shipping weight. There is reason to
believe that the stagnation period is over and that banana exports from the
area will expand rapidly in the immediate future. All banana marketing func-
tions have recently been centralized in the National Banana Board, which has
the means to implement its programs for strengthening Somalia's banana in-
dustry through cost reduction, yield improvements, and modernizing banana
production methods. The Italian Government may grant Lira 5 billion (US$8,330,000)
for irrigation and related improvements in the Genale region. FED is making
a study of the Scebeli River with a view to preparing possible irrigation
projects. In the more distant future, furth,er increases in banana exports
are planned through the expansion of acreage under banana plantation. Banana
exports from the area are expected to reach 103,000 tons in 1977 and 180,000



ANNEX 3
Page 3
tons in 1981 and may reach 241,000 tons in 1986, particularly if the Suez
Canal is reopened, as this would improve Somalia's competitive position in
the European market.
E.   Traffic Diversion from Chisimaio
9.        The recently constructed new port at Chisimaio handles some imports
destined for Mogadiscio, especially during the southwest monsoon season in
June-August when unloading in Mogadiscio port is particularly hazardous. The
volume of diverted cargo is estimated to be 8,000 tons for 1970-71. This
traffic will be handled by Mogadiscio after it is improved and is expected to
grow at the same rate as general cargo imports generally.
F.   Livestock Export Diversion from Berbera
10.       Raising livestock is the principal economic activity in Somalia and
its largest source of foreign exchange earnings. The Mogadiscio hinterland
accounts for over one-third of Somalia's livestock population. Prior to the
port improvements at Berbera, the port of Mogadiscio handled 10-20% of Somalia's
live animal exports. The balance of livestock exports from the port's service
area was trekked overland to Kenya and, to a lesser extent, to the port of
Berbera which, even then, offered better animal handling facilities than
Mogadiscio. As a result of port improvements at Berbera, Mogadiscio's share
of the country's livestock exports dropped in 1970 to less than 2%.
11.       The proposed port improvements at Mogadiscio will help recapture
most if not all livestock traffic lost to the port of Berbera, estimated at
about 9,000 tons in 1971. Long-range forecasts of livestock exports from
Somalia anticipate an overall annual growth rate of 10%, which is also the
rate assumed for the port of Mogadiscio through 1976. Afterwards, increasing
local meat consumption and growing demand of the Mogadiscio meat processing
plant will reduce the growth rate of live animal exports to an estimated 8%
per annum.
G.   Generated Traffic
12.       In view of the substantial savings to be achieved by constructing
a deep-water port at Mogadiscio, and the probability that a large proportion
of these savings could be passed on to Somali consumers and producers, com-
bined with the general development potential of the area induced by highway
construction, considerable export and import traffic is likely to be generated
by the proposed project. This generated traffic is conservatively estimated
at 25,000 tons in 1981, increasing thereafter at the average growth rate in-
dicated above for general cargo traffic.
February 14, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Economic Justification
A.   Introduction
1.        There is an urgent need to improve the port at Mogadiscio.  The
existing lighterage facility is totally inadequate, highly inefficient and is
silting up rapidly. An economic appraisal of the project shows it will offer
an attractive rate of return on investment from several conservatively esti-
mated project benefits, including the elimination of the shipping surcharge,
reduction in cargo losses, lower banana export costs and diversion of dry
cargo imports from the port of Chisimaio and of live animal exports from the
northern coast port of Berbera. Also considered, but not quantified for lack
of adequate data, are benefits from generated traffic.
B.   Shipping Surcharge Savings
2.        The East African Conference Lines impose a surcharge of US$8.40 per
ton on dry cargo shipped to or from lighterage ports along the East African
coast, including Mogadiscio. No specific surcharge is imposed on dry cargo
moved in charter (tramp) ships but, according to local shipping agents and
forwarders, the higher cost of lighterage operations is reflected in negotiated
charter rates and in the demurrage paid to such vessels. Based on the ratio
of daily operating costs for representative ships serving the port of Mogadiscio,
US$1,450/day for conference ships and US$1,000/day for charter ships, the
-lircharge cost for the latter can be estimated at US$5.80 per ton.
3.        The surcharge is imposed to cover higher ship time costs due to the
unprotected nature of the anchorage, which makes ship waiting time at
Mlogadiscio unpredictable, and the inefficiency of present lighterage opera-
tions. There is no similar surcharge at Chisimaio, Somalia's other, recently
built, East African coast port. The elimination of the surcharge at Mogadiscio
will directly benefit the national economy by reducing total shipping costs
by 20-25%, increasing the speed and reliability of freight movements, and, as
a result of these improvements, stimulating Somalia's economic development.
4.        An analysis of dry cargo shipments shows that in 1971, conference
line vessels carried 67% of general cargo imports, and nearly all general
cargo exports moving through the port. Charter or tramp vessels carried the
balance. Based on this and assuming no changes in the competitive position
of conference and charter ships during the forecast period, the following
savings can be expected when the surcharge is eliminated.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Conference Line Ships   Charter or Tramn Ships   Total Surcharge
Volume        Savings    Volume          Savings          Savings
Tons  ('000)  US$         Tons   ('000)  US$             US$'000
1977               123           1,033.2       119           690.2           1,723.4
1981               159           1,335.6       124           719.2          2,054.8
1986               203           1,705.2       131           759.8          2.465.0
1987-2015          203           1,705.2       131           759.8          2,465.0
C.   Reduction in Cargo Losses
5.        During lighterage operations at Mogadiscio, losses occur through
damage and by falling into the sea.  Weather also damages cargo too large
or too heavy to be moved manually into the transit sheds. Detailed informa-
tion on cargo losses or damage in the port area is not available, but on the
basis of data from various sources, it can be conservatively assumed that
cargo losses average about 1-1/2% of value for dry cargo imports and about
0.5% for dry cargo exports other than bananas. The value of dry cargo moving
through the port of Mogadiscio in 1970 averaged US$308 per ton for imports
and US$440 per ton for exports. This implies savings in cargo losses of
US$4.60 per ton for imports and US$2.20 per ton for exports.
6.        The following table shows the estimated savings from reductions in
cargo losses:
Imports                Exports           Total Savings
Year               Volume         Savings  Volume       Savings        US$'000
Tons  ('000)  US$       Tons  ('000)  US$
1977                229           1,053.4    13           28.6         1,082.0
1981                268           1,232.8    15           33.0         1,265.8
1986                315           1,449.0    19           41.8         1,490.8
1987-2016 (annual) 315            1,449.0    19           41.8         1.490.8
D.   Chisimaio Traffic Diversion Benefits
7.        Dry cargo imports destined for Mogadiscio but unloaded at Chisimaio
during the southwest monsoon season are trucked to the Mogadiscio area, over
a 500 km coastal road, of which only 210 km are paved. The costs of the
movements is estimated at US$14.75 per ton including the empty return Journey.
Based on the traffic diversion estimates (Annex 3, para. 9), traffic diversion
benefits are estimated as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Diverted            Annual
Year           Traffic            Savings
Tons     ('000)    US$
1977            14                 206.5
1981             19                208.3
1986            27                 398.3
1987-2016        27                398.3
E.   Banana Traffic Diversion Savings
8.        Banana exports from the Afgoi-Genale area use the lighterage port
at Merca, some 90 km south of Mogadiscio, incurring substantial costs in ship
waiting time and cargo losses. Construction of a banana berth at Mogadiscio
will reduce the ship waiting time and largely eliminate cargo losses. These
benefits will outweigh the additional costs incurred as a result of longer land
transport distances between the port and the banana-growing areas.
9.        At present, 72 hours are required to load 3,000 tons of bananas
aboard a refrigerated banana ship in Merca. Port improvements at Mogadiscio
will reduce the loading time to 24 hours, saving 48 hours of a ship's time.
The value of time for a banana ship is estimated at US$3,500 per day, or
savings of US$2.33 per ton of bananas. Banana ships, which are chartered,
make about 8.0 round trips annually, but with the proposed improvements,
they will be able to make 8.5 round trips annually. W4hen the Suez Canal
reopens, the number of annual round trips will be 19 without, and 21 with,
L_;e proposed port improvements.
10.       Based on current production and local marketing costs, the local
cost of bananas is US$83.42 per ton excluding export tax. The losses to
bananas at Merca are estimated at 3% of total volume compared with less than
1% at Chisimaio which has modern berthing facilities for banana ships. A
loss reduction of 2% or US$1.67 per ton can be expected from the proposed
port improvements at Mogadiscio.
11.       The transfer of banana exports from Merca to Mogadiscio will increase
land transport costs for bananas grown in the Genale area and decrease them for
bananas grown in the Afgoi area. Since about 90% of all bananas come from the
Genale area, the net effect of exporting bananas via Mogadiscio will be to
increase the average road transport distance by about 60 km,, thereby incurring
additional land transport costs, estimated at US$2.25 per ton.
12.       Net savings attributable to the resiting of the banana export port
from Merca to Mogadiscio are estimated at US$1.75 per ton as shown below:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
US$/ ton
Ship time savings               2.33
Cargo loss reduction            1.67
Gross savings            4.00
Less additional land
transport cost                2.25
Net savings              1.75
13.       Based on the banana export forecasts described in Annex 3, para. 8,
banana traffic diversion savings are expected to increase as folloxws:
Annual
Year                 Banana Exports                    Savings
Tons           ('000)          US$
1977                     103                            180.3
1981                     180                            315.0
1987-2016                 241                            421.8
F.   Livestock Diversion Benefits
14.       Somali livestock is transported to the port almost exclusively on
the hoof. Because of the better shipping facilities and established export
markets in the northern region, a large portion of the livestock from
Mogadiscio's hinterland is exported through Berbera, some 1,250 km north of
Mogadiscio. Shipping livestock through Mogadiscio will shorten the land
transport distance by about 1,000 km, and offer savings equivalent to an
estimated So.Sh 100 per ton (Table 5). The annual estimated benefits from
this source are:
Year                Diverted Livestock                Savings
Volume
Tons           ('000)         US$
1977                         4                           60
1981                        17                          255
1986                        25                          375
1987-2016                   25                          375



ANNEX 4
Page 5
G.   Economic Costs of the Project
15.       Construction of the project is expected to be completed by June 1976,
with the new port beginning operation by July 1976. The total project cost,
including engineering and price contingencies, is estimated at US$25.0 million.
For the purpose of economic evaluation, excluding price contingencies, the
economic cost of the project is estimated at US$22.66 million. The annual
maintenance cost is not expected to exceed 1% of the capital cost.
H.   Economic Justification
16.       The comparison of quantifiable benefits with project costs yields
a economic return of 15.4% on the investment. Project benefits will commence
about July 1976 and will continue for the useful life of the new port facili-
ties estimated to be 40 years. However, no increases in annual benefits are
assumed after 1985 for banana exports and after 1986 for other dry cargo. A
summary of project benefits is given in Table 6.
17.       Project benefits have been understated by the exclusion of benefits
from generated traffic, while all project-connected costs have been allocated
to this project although several important cost elements such as the breakwater,
the access road, administrative facilities, etc., will directly benefit future
stages of the port development program.
18.       A sensitivity analysis carried out as part of the project appraisal
produced the following results:
Sensitivity Analysis
Project Cost                Project Benefits          Economic Return
Estimate                    Reduced 25%                     12.1%
Estimate                    Forecast                        15.4%
Estimate                    Increased 25%                   18.3%
Increased 10%               Reduced 25%                     11.1%o
Increased 10%               Forecast                        14.1%
Increased 10%               Increased 25%                   16.9%
Increased 20%               Reduced 25%                     10.2%
Increased 20%               Forecast                        13.1%
Increased 20%               Increased 25%                   15.7%
Reduced 10%                 Forecast                        16.2%
Reduced 20%                 Forecast                        17.8%
They show that, even if actual project costs and benefits turned out to be
20% higher and 25% lower respectively than the appraisal estimates, the project
would still yield an economic return in excess of 10%. Much more likely, how-
ever, would be lower project costs (on the basis of bids already received) and
higher benefits (for reasons stated in pEra. 17 above), yielding a return of
18% or more.
February 14, 1973






ANNEX 5 (a)
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Terms and Conditions of USSR Loan for Berbera -
Summary
(Millions)
Total Loan                                         Roubles           So.Sh
Development Loan                               37.5             297.64
Commodity Loan                                 9.5               75.4
Interest
Interest rate is 2-1/2% and is chargeable from the date the respective
portion of the loan has been utilized. Payment is due in first 3
months of the year following that in which respective portions of the
loan are debited.
Capital Repayment
Development Loan. Repayable in 12 annual installments starting in the
year after all equipment for respective project has been delivered.
Commodity Loan. Repayable in 5 annual installments staring in the
year following utilization of respective parts of loan.
T)eferment Clause
50% of repayment of capital and 50% payment of interest may be
deferred until January 1, 1972, and is then to be paid in full over
12-year period.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX 5 (b)
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Terms and Conditions of USA Loan for Chisimaio Project -
Summary
(millions)
Total Loan                                    US$                  So.Sh
6                   42.8568
Interest
Interest rate is 3/4% of first US$3.6 million, 1% on remaining
US$2.4 million for first ten years and 2-1/2% thereafter.
First interest payment was due June 18, 1968.
Capital Repayment
Loan is to be repaid in US dollars over a period of 40 years and the
first payment is due December 18, 1977.
Special Clause
Both interest and caoital payments are due semiannually.
February 14, 1973



ANNEX 6
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
1.        Income tax was continued at 35% until December 31, 1972, including
5% for local taxes.
2.        The new turnover tax will be at the rate of 10%, to include an
amount for local taxes. Tariffs will not be increased because of this tax.
3.        A contribution of 80% of after tax profits was be paid over to the
Government's Development Fund until December 31, 1972, in accordance witV
the Government's provisional policy prior to the new legislation.
4.        The variable payments to the Government out of profits and deprecia-
tion from January 1, 1973, under the new legislation, have been calculated by
analyzing the application of individual sources of funds.
5.        Increases in working capital have been calculated on 10% of cash
operating expenses.
6.        SPA's capitalization (debt and equity) and debt service calculated
as agreed during negotiations (para. 7.05).
7.        Present tariffs and levels of cash operating costs are assumed to
continue. Additional maintenance costs of 1% on the project are assumed.
8.        Miscellaneous capital expenditure on plant replacement and other
minor works has been assumed at So.Sh 500,000 per annum.
9.        It is assumed that the ad valorem liarbor Dues will be replaced by
Ships' Dues in 1977.
February 14, 1973






TABlI 1
S0!-f LIA
I.OGADISCIO PORT PRJO,jCP
Total Port Traffo  n_Ln- 72Z  -     t A p
(O0O0 ton:s)
Four Major Ports
------- -  ~-  -    23       Total.
Sub-     M4inor    All      Mogadiscio -
Mogadiscio  Bcrbera    Merca    Chisimaio      Total      Ports    Ports     % of Total
Exports;      20.9-/    90.0       40.4      79.9         2312     5. ,/      236.2       9%
Imports      2h8.1       96.9      12.9      30.1         18r8,o   L2.0S 3OO.            62%
Total 1971   269.0      186.9      53.3     110.0         619.2    l7.o2/      636.2      42%
Total 1970   1144.8     140.2      51.4      92.3         42u.7    16.9        445.6      32%
Total 1968   131.5     106.3       4&.8      84.9         371.5    10.5        382.0      34%
Total 1266   123.0      121.7      61.4      72.2         378.3    14.1        392.4      31%4
Source:   1966, 1968 Customs Department
1970, L71 SPA
Notes:    I   Includes bulk petrolcuTm products
2/ Includes exceptional exports of scrap iron
3! Estimated
February 14, 1973



SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Lro.ect LCot Et_timatqs
So. Sh Million                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Local            Foreign            Total             Local           Foreign            Total            Foreign
CIVIL WORKS
Breakwater, Berths, Marshalling Area, Roads and Paving                   23.5              93.9              117.4             3.39             13.56             16.95              807/
Transit Sheds, Warehouse                                                  2.1               8.2               10.3             0.30              1.19              1.49              87o
Ancillary Buildings                                                       0.5               2.2                2.7              0.08             0.31              0.39              807%
Water supply, Electricity, Telephone, etc.                                0.1               2.4                2.5              0.02             0.34              0.36              95%
Miscellaneous (Fencing, Weighbridge, Fire-fighting,
Equipment, Navigation Aids, etc.                                        0.1               2.2                2.3             0,02              0.31              0.33              95%
26.3            108.9              135.2              3.81             15.71            19.52            80.5%
Contingencies:
Engineering 6%                                                       1.6               6.5               8.1              0.23              0.94              1.17
Price 12%                                                            3.2              13.0              16.2              0.45              1.89              2.34
31.1            128.4              159.5              4.49             18.54            23.03            80.5%
Engineering Supervision                                                   0.7               6.2                6.9              0.10              0.90             1.00            89.57.
Total Civil Works                                                        31.8             134.6              166.4              4.59             19.44            24.03            80.9%
OPERATING EOQUIPMENT
Tug, Forklift Trucks, Pallets, etc.                                        -                4.2                4.2               -               0.60              0.60             1001
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
For Management, Operations, Accounting, Training                           O.l              1.9                2.Q              0.01              0.28             o.29              957.
TOTAL                                                                          31.9             140.7              172.6              4.60            20.32             24.92            81.5%
Say                                                                                                                                                                25.00
Source:  Bank Staff, derived from SOGREAl's estimates
February 14, 1t73



TABLE 3
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                      at End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1972/73
June 30, 1973                                         1.771/
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                    2.65
December 31, 1973                                     3.55
March 31, 1974                                        4.45
June 30, 1974                                         5.35
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                    6.35
December 31, 1974                                     7.35
March 31, 1975                                        8.35
June 30, 1975                                         9.35
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                   10.25
December 31, 1975                                    11.15
March 31, 1976                                       12.05
June 30, 1976                                        12.95
1/ Including US$450,000 for the refunding of outstanding balance
of s5-so.
Closing date: June 30, 1977
February 14, 1973



TABLE 4
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Mogadiscio Port Dry Cargo Forecasts
('000 tons)
1971/      1977      1981     1986
Dry Cargo Imports - Total             150        243       287      342
Cereals                              55         65        53       41
All Other                            95        164       215      274
Diverted traffic                     -          14        19       27
Dry Cargo Exports - Total              10        121       213       286
Bananas                              -         103       180      241
Livestock                             1/2        5        18       26
All Other                             9'        13        15       19
Generated Cargo                        -          18        25        32
Dry Cargo - Total                     160        382       525      660
/1 1970-1971 average
/2 Excludes 9,000 tons of scrap netal in 1971
February 14, 1973



TABLE 5
SO4ALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Livestock Diversion: Estimates of Benefits
Measurement                            Goats &
Unit         Camels      Cattle      Sheep
A. Animal trekking cost            Shillings per
head/km          0.03        0.03       0.01
B. Live animal conversion
ratio                        Kg                500         250         30
C. Animal trekking cost            Shillings per
ton/km           0.06        0.12       0.33
D.  Average distance               Km                1,000      1,000       1,000
savings
E. Trekking cost savings           Shillings per
ton                60         120        330
F. Live animal export
volume mix                                    57.2        35.6        7.2
G. Weighted average trekking
cost savings                 Shillings per
ton              34.3        42.7       23.8
Sources and Notes:
(A)  FAO, SOMALIA:  Livestock Development Survey, Rome, 1967
(B)  Ministry of Planning & Coordination, A Macroeconomic Approach to Development
Planning in the Somali Democratic Republic. Mogadiscio, 1970
(C)  Derived from (A) and (B)
(D)  Average distance from Mogadiscio's hinterland to the port of Berbera 1,250 kmi,
to the port of Mogadiscio 250 km
(E)  Derived from (C) and (D)
(F) Ministry of Planning & Coordination, Foreign Trade Returns for Year 1966,
Mogadiscio, 1967
(G)  Derived from (E) and (F)
February 14, 1973



TABIE 6
SOMALIA
MOGJIDISCIO PORT PROJECT
Estimated Benefits and Costs
(US$ '000)
Cargo       Chisimaio         Banana Traf-    Livestock
Surcharge Loss        Traffic Div-      fic D. verSion   Transport       Tot4l       Proiect
Year     Savings   Reduction   ersion Savings   Savings           Cost Savings   BenefitS    Costs
1973       -          -              -                 _                _                       5,630
1974       -          -              -                 -                -             _         6,900
1975       -          -              _                 -                _                       6,900
1976       850        500            100              80               25           1,555      (3,230
( 113
1977     1,723      1,082            207             180               6o           3,252         227
1978     1,788      1,119            221             208               90           3,426         227
1979     1,869      1,162            251            240              135            3,657         227
1980     1,968      1,215            266             275             180            3,904         227
1981     2,055      1,266            280             315             255            4,171         227
1982     2,134      1,309            295            340              285            4,363         227
1983     2,209      1,348            325             364             300            4,546         227
1984     2,291      1,392            339             392             330            4,744         227
1985     2,369      1,438            369             422             345            4,943         227
1986     2,465      1,491            398             422             375            5,151         227
1987
to      2,465      1,491            398            422              375            5,151         227
2016
F Port facilities provided in this project, except for the banana wharf, will be fully
utilized by 1986. No increase is currently planned for banana exports through Mogadiscio
after 1985.
February 14, 1973



TABLE
SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
Principal Tariff Items
(So.Sh)
Mosadiscio     Merca      ChimOalo      Berbert
SCHEDULE A: LIGHTERAGE AND SHOREHANOLING
Landing general cargo
(Par ton weight or volume
whichever is greater)              28.00           28.00       26.00       26.00
Loading general cargo
(Per ton weight or volume
whichever is greater)               26.00           26.00       26.00       26.00
Loading banana and other
aimilar fresh fruits
(Per cubic meter)                 14.00            14.00       14.00      14.00
Landing banana packing material
including empty cartons and
fertilizers (per ton weight
or volume whichever is greater    23.00             23.00       23.00      23.00
Surcharge or overtime on landing/
loading cargo excluding banana,
other similar fresh fruits,
charcoal and fresh meadow          74'/.            7kY%       57.         5%
Loading/landing camel (per head)         15.00            15.00       5.50        5.50
Loading/landing cattle (per head)         8.00             8.00       4.00        4.00
Loading/landing sheep/goat (per head)   2.00               2.00       0.55        0.55
Surcharge or overtime on livestock
handling                            77.             737.        57.        57.
SCHEDULE B:  STEVEDORING CHARGES
Landing/loading general cargo
excluding banana (per ton weight) 12.00             12.00       12.00       12.00
Loading/landing camel (per head)          5.00             5.00      4          44
Loading/landing  cattle (per head)       44               4          4.00        4.00
Loading/landing sheep /goat
(per head)                          0.60             0.60        0.50       0.50
Overtime on stevedoring wrks exclud-
ing livestock, banana              157.             15%         15%         15%
SCHEDULE C:  SHIP CHARGES
Boat service (per trip)                  60.00            60.00      60.00        0.60
Accostage (berthage) for ships
(per foot (0.a.) per hour)           -                -          0.10       0.10
Pilotage for ships (per operation
per NRT)               _                -     with a mini-  with a minimum of
mua of 200.00  200.00 & Maxi. 500.00
& Maxi.500.00
Towage (per operation per tug
over 300 hp )                                                  600.00      600.00
(per tug of 300 hp. sod below)       -                -        300.00     300.00
Pilot (for every half an hour)             -                -        50.00       50.00
Pilot services not utilized
(per operation)                      -                -        100.00     100.00
Mooring (berthing) dues
(per operation)                       -               -        100.00     100.00
SCHEDULE 0:  PORT DUES AND HARBOR TAX
Harbor tax (on ad valorem)               147.             1            h7 1%.    113%
Anchorage for ships (per arrival
per SRT for 30 days)                 0.60            0.60        0.60        0.60
Anchorage for ships(on annual basis)    1.20               1.20        1.20       1.20
Pebruary 14, 1973



SOMALIA
MOGADISCIC  PORT PROJECT
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
Forecast Revenue Accounts, Years Ending December 31
(So. Sh '000)
1969       1970        1971       1972        1973        1974       1975        1976        1977       1978        1979        1980       1981
OPERArING REVENUES
Ships Dues                                          480       1,014        955       1,066       1,147      1,231       1,317       2,627     13,685      14,245      14,895     15,670      16,473
Stevedoring                                       1,655       1,864      4,011       3,753       3,999      4,245       4,527      4,612       5,415       5,616       5,838      6,150       6,447
Lighterage and Shorehandling                     10,093       9,978     20,705      19,448      20,784     22,206      23,848      24,909     27,539      29,339      31,2Co     33,438      35,605
Storage                                                                   1,350      1,275       1,365      1,450       1,557       1,730      1,890       1,970       2,040      2,125       2,200
Miscellaneous                                       106         285         100        104         110         116        122         128         135        142         149         156        163
H-rh-r T..                                        5.263       6 351       7,675      7.4S5       S.) I        755       9.275       9.795        -          _           __                    __
17.597     19,492      34,796     33.101      35.560      38.003     40.646      44.001      48.664      51,312     54,130      57.539     60.888
OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor Costs - Stevedoring                                                 1,904      1,793       1,914      2,035       2,173       2,311      2,592       2,685       2,794      2,944       3,087
Lighterage and Shorehandling                               9,807      9,534      10.353      11.214     12,180      13,125      14,889      15.561     16.569      17.787     19,005
4,359     11,711      11,327      12,267     13,249      14,353      15,436     17,481      18,246      19,363     20,731      22,092
Other Operating Costs, Maintenance
& Administration                              6_369                    6,689       7.023       7.374      7.744       8.132       8,132      9.215       9.663      10,134     10,628      11.147
14,797     10,728      18,400     18,350      19,641      20,993     22,485      23,568      26,696      27,909     29,497      31,359     33,239
Depreciation                                      4,549       4,758  4,908           _ 5.037     5,037      5.072       5,072       6,239       7,406      7.406       7.406       7,406      7.406
19,346     15,486      23.308     23,387      24,678      26.065     27,557      29.807      34,102      35,315     36.903      38.765     40.645
OPERATING SURPLUS                                   (1,749)     4,006      11,488      9,714      10,882      11,938     13,089      14,194      14,562      15,997     17,227      18,774      20,243
INTEREST AND SERVICE CHARGES PAYMENTS                              76          84      1,432       1,395       1,465      1,555       1,610       1,564       1,449      1,332       1,214       1,097
SURPLUS AFTER INTEREST AND SERVICE CHARGES                      3,930      11,404      8,282       9,487      10,473     11,534      12,584      12,998      14,548     15,895      17,560      19,146
INCOME TAX @ 35%                                                1,376       3,991      2,899
TURNOVER TAX, ASSUfMED 107.                                                                        3,556       3,800      4,065       4,400       4,866       5,131      5,413       5,754       6,089
CONTRIBUTION TO GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT FUND                     2,043       5,930      4,306       5,807       6,538       7,319      8,076       7,819       9,296      10,323     11,620      12,869
RETAINED SURPLUS - WORKING CAPITAL                                511       1,483       1,077        124         135         150        108         313         121         159        186         188
OPERATING RATIO                                        110%        79%         677.        71%         69% .       9%S        68%         68%         70'b       69%         68%        677.        677.
INTEREST COVERED - TIMES                               -           53%        137x          6.8x        7.8x       8.1x        8.4x       8.8x        9.3x       11.Ox       12.9S      15.5x       18.5x
DEBT SERVICE COVERED - TIMES                           -             6.3x      11,2x        2.2x        2.7x       2.9x        3.0x        3.3x       3.6x        3.9x        4.2x        4.5x       4.9x
INANCAIA. RATE OF RETURN Oi AVERAGE NET FIXED          -             2,8%       8. 2%       7.2%        8.2%       9.3%       10.5%        7.0%       5.27.       5.8%        6.4%        7.27.      7.97.
ASSETS IN USE
Source:   1969         AIC, SPA
1970        Bank Staff, based on SPA a&,dited acconunts
1971-1981   Bank Staff
February 14,1973



SOMA_ IA
MOGADISCI 2_ORT PROJECT
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
Forecast Source and Application of Funds Statement- Years Ending December 31
(So. Sh '000)
Project Construction Period-----    Sub-Total
1973-
1970      1971        1972       1973        1974       1975        1976        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980        1981
FUNDS REQUIRED
Investment
FED/MDA Project                                                        42,934     52,630      52,630      24,932    173,126
Other                                 1,522      1,290        850       1,782        500         500         500       3.282        500         500        500         500         500
1,522     1,290        850      44,716     53,130      53,130      25,432    176,408         500         500         500        500         500
Debt Service - Table 11                   1,401     1.465       6.749      5,893       5,963      6,053       6.108      24.017      6.152       6.037       5.920      5.802       5.685
2.923      _          7.599     50.609      59.093     59.183      31.540    200.425       6.652       6.537       6420       6.302       6-123
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internally Generated
Operating Surplus                     4.006    11,488       9,714      10,882      11,938     13,089      14.194      50,103     14,562      15,997      17,227     18,774      20.243
Depreciation                          4.758      4.908      5.037       5,037       5.072      5.072       6.239      21.420      7.406       7.406     _Z.J.06      7.406      7.406
8,764    16,396      14,751     15,919      17,010     18,161      20,433      71,523      21,968     23,403      24,633      26,180     27,649
Less Distributions to Government
Fros Revenue
Incose Tax                       1,376      3,991      2,899
Turnover Tax                                                        3,556      3,800       4,065       4,400      15,821      4,866       5,131       5,413      5,754       6,089
Developent Fund - 807             2,043      5,930      4,306
Variable                                                       5,807       6.538       7,319       8.076     27.740       7,819       9.296     10.323      11.620      12.869
3,419     9,921       7,205      9,363      10,338     11,384      12,476      43,561      12,685     14,427      15,736     17,374      18,958
From Capital                                                           _                                   789         789      1.866       1.866       2.318                 ___
3.,419    9.,921     7.205       9.363      10.338     11,384      13.265      44.350      14,551     16.293      18.054      17,374     18.958
Net Intermally Generated
Funds Retained                      5,345      6,475      7,546       6,556       6,672      6,777       7,168      27,173       7,417      7,110       6,579      8,806       8,691
External Sources
FED Grant                                                              21,467      26,315     26,315      12,466      86,563
IDA Credit                                                    _        24-583      26.315     26 315      12 466      89.679
6475                  7.546     52.606      59.302      59.407     32.100    203415         7.417       7.110      6.579       8.806       8.691
Annual Surplus (Deficit)                     2,422     3,720         (53)     1,997         209         224        560        2,990        765         573        159       2,504       2,506
Opening Balance                              2,364     4,786       8,506      8,453      10,450     10,659      10,883        8,453     11,443      12,208      12,781     12,940      15,444
Closing Balance                              4,786      8,506      8,453    10,450       10,659      10,883     11,443       11,443     12,208      12,781      12,940     15,444      17,950
Source: Bank Staff
February 14, 1973



SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
Foretet )a'Iance Shets as at December 31
( So .aSh 't000)
1969       1970        1971       1972        1973       1974        1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980         1981
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Written Down Value December 31, 1969          144,731    144,731    146,205    147,495    147,495    150,127    150,627    151,127    318,268    318,768    319,268    319,768    320,268
Additions                                        -          1.522      1,290                  2.632        500         500    170.226         500        500         500         500        500
144,731    146,253    147,495    147,495    150,127    150,627    151,127    321,353    318,768    319,268    319,768    320,268    320,768
Retirements                                                   48                                                                3,085
146,205                                                             318,268
Depreciation                                               4.606       9,362     14.247      19,132     24,052      28.972     33.409      40.527     47.645      54.763     61.881      68.999
144,731    141,599    138,133    133,248    130,995    126,575    122,155    284,859    278,241    271,623    265,005    258,387    251,769
Capital Work in Progress                                                               850      42,934     95,564    148,194
Technical Assistance, Less Amounts
Written off               -         3,657       3,505      3,353       3,201      3,049       2,897      6,077       5,789      5,501       5,213      4,925       4,637
Net Current Assets (Table 9)                       2.364      4.786       8,506      8.453       7,334      7,543       7.767      8.3Z7       9.092      9.665       9.824      12.328     14.834
147.095    15004_2    150,144                184,464    232,731    281,013    299,263    293,122    286,789    280,042    275,640    271,240
CAPITAL
Equity
Balance Brought Forward                          -        83,285      83,748     85,231      86,308    107,899    134,349    160,814    171,096    169,543    167,798    165,639    165,825
FED Grant                                                                                    21,467     26,315      26,315     12,466
Revenue Surrlus After Interest                             3.930      11.404      8.282       9,487     10,473      11.534     12.584      12.999      14,=       17sq%       1725n      19.,146
87,215     95,152      93.513    117,262    144,687    172,198    185,864    184,094    184,091    183,693    183,199    184,971
Less:  Total Payments Against Equity (Table 9)             3,419       9,921      7,205       9,363     10,338      11,384     13,265      14,551      16,293     18,054      17,374     18,958
Fixed Asset Retirenents                                48                                                                1.503
Bslance Forward                                83,285     83,748      85,231     86,308    107,899    134,349    160,814    171,096    169,543    167,798    165,639    165,825    166,013
Debt                                              63.810      66.294     64,913      59,596     76,565      98,382    120.199    128,167    123,579    118,991    114.403    109.815    105.227
147.095    1,          150.144    145.904        &46      323        8          299.263    293.122    2            280.042    275.640    271,240
Debt/Equity Ratio                                43/57       44/56      43/57       41/59      42/58       42/58      43/57       43/57      42/58       41/59       41/59      40/60       39/61
Averase Net Fixed Assets in Use                              143,165    139,866    135,691    132,122    128,785    124,365    203,507    281,550    274,932    268,314    261,696    255,078
Source:  1969   AIC, SPA
1970   Bank staff, based on SPA audited accounts
197b-84 Bo1k Staff
February 14, 1973



SOMALIA
MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
Forecast Debt Service Statement
(So. Sh '000)
1970       1971        1972        1973        1974        1975       1976        1977         1978       1979        1980        1981
Medium Term Debt Capital                                 1,325        929         367
Berbera-USSR
Interest                                                                   1,349      1,237       1,124       1,012         900         787         675         562         450         337
Capital                                                                    4,498      4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498
Chisimaio-USAID
Interest                                              61          61          61         61          61          61          61         104         101          97          91          87
Capital                                              -           -           -           -          -           -           -            90          90          90          90          90
IDA Development Credit S5-SO
Service Charge                                         15         23          22
Capital                                              -           452         452
Proposed IDA Credit'/
Service Charge                                       -           -           -            97         280        482         649         673         673         673         673         673
Capital (Comnence 1983)                                          -                                   -           -           -           -          -                       -           _
1.401    1,46s       6,729       5           5           6,053       6,108       6,152       6,037       5,20        5,802       5,685
Interest and Service Charges                                76          84      1,432       1,395       1,465       1,555       1,610       1,564       1,449       1,332       1,214      1,097
Capital                                                 1,325       1,381       5,317       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,498       4,588       4,588       4,588       4,588       4,588
/ Including refunded portion of Credit 55-SO
Source: Bank Staff
February 14, 1973






J-,
t1                                                                                    -
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,' . _ wS  R ^ S S I F HAR BO   S IS E   ,   -                                       . EXISTINU DAU CR
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    7' ''tt
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r~!  #                    ':              ALTO   GIU t             -   U               U A 0
7~~~~~~~7"
;  9                            s s _~            -                 V. J
; 1 S C;~~~~~~~~.                                                                           ph<                                    *z, MO1\\  4/  i,   ADISCIO  OEPWTR AIO
RA__H  s_t;    . ..                  a        *    *,A O                 -.  SITE-
UCUSW I           *     5           t          1          t     1    1          D    -          1 2 1 -
5-'  .. ~~             ~~                      ~~                    ~                     I * N S~~GUO
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   "-I~~~~~~,  ,A~~   4y                -   ..   -    -    ,..    MOGAOeSCIO  CESC O EDEE W ATEE R    H AR BOR
GENZRAL LOCATION AND RELATIVE
~~~u1   I.S~~~~~~~~ W*5.I~~~~~~~~~ @*W s.:Y~~~~~~~~~~~~&.                                                                                 LO~~~~2CATION OF RAS SIF SITE
AMUv: _      aN 1aI4 aP p h.hIMaMapVW aW&                                                                                                                                                                   IOSZ






r   i    s                        4   :                    t   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST t972. 
O  F                        .   ,   ,          | - '  '   ' '   '         7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
= i  C                      :                          F -             ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
"0V'S''\s'''E,,,,    TV&ay      ilAOR
_X ~ ~~~~~~~~~               ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R (   S    -,'"".,
' es "   -   '   r  "  ';  -  -  <  SA  ' $ ';L . g f '0 = "' < "ti"'L' "' " 't A N g - - tV : - -: X~E zzi 2 e72 < ,   0 j



