DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE COPY                            Report
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A PORT PROJECT
February 22, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATiON OF THE PRESIDEN-T
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMEN'T CREDIT
TO THE SuMALI DEMUCRATIC REPUBLIC
1`R THE MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
1.        I submi-t the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent
of -S$12.95 million on standard IDA terms to help finance, jointly with
the European Development Fund (FED), the construction of a deepwater port
in Mogadiscio. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Somali
Port Authority (SPA) on IDA terms. The F'ED will make a grant of
So. Sh 86,648,ooo equivalent before the recent dollar devaluation to
USX12.5 million; the proceeds of the grant will be passed on to SPA as
government equi ty.1
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "tReceat Economic Developments in Somalia"
(AE-28a) was distributed, to the Executive Directors on August 28, 1972.
A Country Data Sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        Somalia comprises the coastal plain that lies southeast of the
Ethiopian highlands and mountainous ridge that forms the Horn of Africa.
The -Somali Democratic Republic was born as an independent nation in 1960
througlL a merger of the former Italian Trust Territory of Somalia and
the former British Protectorate of Somalia. In October 1969, the Govern-
ment of Somalia was taken over by the military in a bloodless coup. Since
then, the Supreme Revolutionary Council consisting of army and police
officers has been the highest decision-making body in the country.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Somalia is recognized to be one of the poorest countries in
Africa with an estimated per capita income in the order of $70. The
/1 The financial plan for this project, including the cost estimates
and the contributions by IDA and the FED, and the information and
analyses in the appraisal report have been based upon the currency
values prevailing before the recent dollar devaluation. The project
costs in terms of dollars are now expected to increase but in view
of the favorable bids received on the project (see Paragraph 31 be-
low) these increased costs are expected to be amply covered by the
IDA and FED financing. It should be noted that the IDA commitment
will be in terms of current dollars; the exact value in current
dollars of the FED contribution will depend upon the future value
of the Somali shilling, which has not yet been determined.



- 2 -
economy is simple and largely undeveloped, and there are few natural re-
sources which can be easily exploited at present. Most of the people
depend upon livestock and subsiste.nce crops for their livelihood. Living
conditions for the largely nomadic population are generally harsh. Much
of the country is arid, water supplies are scattered and often unreliable
and periodic droughts bring great hardship to both people and their live-
stock. The small monetary sector of the economy provides orly limited
opportunities for employment. Apart from the traditional export of live-
stock, commercial agriculture is i2ainly centered around the production of
bananas, principally by Italian concession holders, and the production of
sugar for the domestic market. Manufacturing and other sectors of the
economy are restricted in their pctential by the small size of the market,
poor infrastructure and the shortage of capital and entrepreneurial
ability. Social services are still very inadequate, only a small minority
of children go to school and most rural communities are virtually isolated
from the rest of the country by poor roads and communications.
5.        The first decade since independence has been characterized by
chronic financial difficulties which obliged Somalia to depend upon
external assistance to balance her recurrent budget as well as to finance
the whole of her development program. This assistance has beern, ho)ever,
less effective than it might have been because of the limited adminis-
trative capacity to evaluate, prepare and implement sound projects.
6.        The Revolutionary Government which came to power in October
1969 is seriously commltted to the goal of economic development. It
places a premium on self-reliance, which is evident in its management of
public finance.  Somalia's budgetary position showed considerable improve-
ment starting in 1970, and in 1971 the Government achieved a recurrent
budget surplus for the first time. This achievement was due mainly to
effective control of expenditure, improved tax collection and cuts in
salaries and wages of Government employees. Expenditures on defense still
account fc*r about one-fourth of total recurrent expenditure, but their
rate of increase -was reduced to about seven percent between 1970 and 1972,
compared with the average annual rate of increase of about fifteen percent
between 1967 and 1970.   Budgetary support from Italy, which Somalia has
been receiving since 1961, ccntinues but is now used to firnance develop-
ment.
7.        Somalia's trade balance has been constantly in deficit in recent
years n thle average deficit over the period 1968-71 being So. Sh 116 mil-
lion annually. During this period, exports and imports have increased by
31 percent and 25 percent, respectively.   Aver the last four years, live-
stock, animal products, and bananas have accounted for over 90 percent of
total exports. Since 1968, Somalia's overall balance of payments lhas been
in surplus. ln 1970 and 1971, the surpluses (excluding allocations of
SDR's) were So. Sh 40 million and So. Sh 43 million. Somalia's foreign
reserves Pmounted to $29 million at the end of November 1972, the equiva-
lent of about six months imports.



- 3 -
8.        Since independence, Somalia has received substantial amounts of
foreign aid. From 1965 to 1971 the average annual disbursement of loans
and grants was on the order of $23 million, seventy percent of which was
in grants to finance development projects as well as deficits in the re-
current budget.  The major donors during this period were Italy, the
United States, the European Economic Community, the United Nations, i-he
Federal Republic of Germany and the USSR. In the last few years, the
People's Republic of China has made substantial loan commitments.   The
United States and the Federal Republic of Germany suspended new commit-
ments to Somalia in June 1970.
9.        At the end of 1970 Somalia's total debt amounted to US$105.2
million equivalent, of which $73.9 million was disbursed. The USSR
accounted for 52 percent of this, while the shares of the Federal Republic
of Germany, United States and IDA were 19 percent, 9 percent and 10 per-
cent respectively. The debt service ratio in 1970 was a modest two per-
cent. However, starting in 1971, interest and amortization payments were
scheduled to increase substantially and, in the absence of a corresponding
increase in exports, the debt service ratio would probably have risen to
about 15 percent during the next 5 to 6 years. Somalia experienced some
difficulties in the past in servicing its external debt and sought relief
through a series of rescheduling arrangements with the USSR in 1966, 1968
and most recently, in 1971. We do not yet have full information on the
1971 rescheduling but it will result in reducing the debt service burden
in the immediate future. In view of the strained budgetary position of
the Government, the management of the public debt, particularly the terms
of new debts, is of critical importance. However, new commitments obtained
since June 1971 amounting to $92 million have been generally on conces-
sionary terms, particularly those from the People's Republic of China, the
USSR and IDA.
10.       In May 1970, the Government nationalized a number of foreign
(mainly Italian) private enterprises, including an electric power company,
a sugar refinery and commercial banks. The Government has stated that it
will pay compensation and negotiations on the terms of compensation are
under way.
Development Planning and Prospects
11.       The Government is now implementing the So. Sh 1,000 million
development program (1971-73).  Earlier plans, the first .`ive-Year Plan
(1963-67) and the Short-Term Development Program (1968-70), looked to
foreign aid for virtually all the financing. The Government, placing a
high premium on self-reliance, intends to finance 20 percent of the present
plan from internal sources.
12.       The plan gives the highest priority to transport and communica-
tions, which claim 35 percent of total expenditure.   A 1,045 km road from
Belet Uen to Burao (financed by the People's Republic of China), the Har-
geisa-Berbera Highway (IDA and the African Development Bank), the Port of
Mogadiscio (IDA and FED) and a telecommnnications project (FED) account
for 85 percent of investment planned for this sector.



13.       Agriculture, livestock, and water resources development account
for 34 percent of plan investment. Of this, banana development ;^-eceives
the largest share, but sizeable allocations also go to cotton development
and the agricultural Crash Programs, para-military collective self-help
schemes designed to increase food production by mobilizing unemployed
labor. Sorghum and maize are the two most important food crops in Somalia.
The aim is to achieve self-sufficiency in these two crops by the end of
the period of the plan.
14.      Investment is planned to reach So. Sh 333 million annually in
1971-73. This is very large compared with the previous program (1968-70)
which called for average annual expenditures of So. Sh 235 million and
proved to be over-ambitious. Even if all the necessary external and
domestic finance can be found, the shortage of qualified and experienced
personnel will make it difficult to prepare and execute projects as fast
as called for under the plan. Achievement in 1971 was considerably below
target.
15.       The Government is now formulating a new Five-Year Development
Plan to start in 1974. A Bank economic mission is planned to visit
Somalia in December 1973 to help the Government establish the priorities
for this new plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
16.       Starting in 1965, IDA has made five credits totalling about
$22 million, about 85 percen-t of which was for transportation development,
including construction of two trunk roads (Afgoi-Baidoa in thie central
region and Hargeisa-Berbera in the northern region) and engineering and
accounting services for the Port of Mogadiscio Project. 'The economic
future of the country depends on the development of agriculture and the
livestock export trade. Provrision of basic transportation infrastruc-ture
was a prerequisite. It also helps in the important task of nation build-
ing by tying together Somalia's geographically isolated regions. Another
IDA credit in 1971 assisted education, the development of which is also
at a verv early stage compared with other developing countries. No Bank
loa:; or IEC investments have been made in Somalia.
17.       Annex II contains EL summary statement of IDA credits as at
January 31 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Performance
has been generally. satisfactory except on the education project, which is
about six months behind schedule. However, remedial actions are being
taken and we plan to intensify our follow-up of the Project by frequent
staff visits.
18.       We are now concentrating our efforts on the country's most
important productive sectors, agriculture and livestock. Agriculture



offers the greatest potential for development, but most rural activities
are only at the beginning stage.  Moreover, agricultural development in
Somalia is particularly difficult because most of the people in rural
areas are nomadic. The first fruit of our efforts will be a livestock
project which was appraised earlier this month and for which a credit is
expected to be put to the Executive Directors for approval early in FY74.
This project, covering the area between the Giuba River and the Kenya
border, would help increase efficiency in cattle raising, the country's
key industry and main foreign exchEnge earner. In FY75 we hope to present
another agricultural project based on the findings of an identification
mission which visited Somalia in November/December 1972.
19.       Despite the efforts of the Government and external assistance
from various donors including IDA, the country's transportation and commu-
nications are still inadequate. Both IDA and the Government will continue
to support transport development in the next few years. The second high-
way credit under implementation provides for feasibility studies and
detailed engineering for the improvement of the Hargeisa-Borama road in
the northern region, which would further promote livestock and agricultural
development in the area. The studies are expected to be completed in the
Fall of 1974 and are expected to provide the basis for a further project
IDA could support.
20.       As mentioned above, Somalia's education system is inadequate for
the country's needs; for instance, only 8 percent of the relevant age
population are attending elementary schools, one of the lowest attendance
ratios in Africa. A UNESCO/IBRD Cooperative Programme Identification
mission visited Somalia in January, and on the basis of the mission's
finding we hope to assist the Government further in preparing a second
education project soon.
21.       Because Somalia is one of the least developed countries in the
world and lacks exploitable resources, it will, despite recent successful
economic performance, need a substantial amount of external aid for devel-
opment. As much as possible of this aid should be on concessionary terms
and external financing should be provided for a large part of domestic
costs as well as the foreign costs of investments. Since Somalia's
limited administrative capacity continues to be an important constraint,
intensive technical assistance will be required.



- 6 -
PARr III - 'THE S3CT0R
22.       The exploitation of Somalia's limited resources has been in-
hibited by lack of adequate transportation facilities: the road network
is still under-developed, there are no railways, air transport services
are in their early stage of development, and the principal port
(M4ogadiscio) has obsolete fac:ilities and inefficient operations. The
density of cargo and passenger flows in all modes is light.
Road transport
23.       The 200 km highway from Afgoi, just outside Mogadiscio, to
Baidoa unites the Port of Niogadiscio to its hinterland. It was financed
jointly by IDA and FED and completed in 1971. In the north, the 160 km
road from Hargeisa to the port of Berbera was begun in 1972 under financ-
ing provided jointly by IDA and the AfDB. There is also a bituminous
road from Afgoi southwest to Goluen financed by FED. A 1,045 km road
financed by the People's Republic of Jhina is being constructed from
Belet Uen in the central region to burao in the north.  Despite the imple-
mentation of these various projects, the country's highway system is still
under-developed and many regions are isolated. About 15,300 motor vehi_les
were registered in 1970; registrations have grown at 6 percent per annum
in recent years.
Ports
24.       Somalia has twenty-seven ports along the more than 3,000 km of
coastline, including four major ones at Berbera, Ghisimaio, Merca and
Iiogadiscio, accounting for more than 95 percent of the country's ocean-
borne foreign commerce. New ports recently built at Berbera in the north
and Chisimaio in the south, with the help of the USSR and USAiD respectively,
have sheltered deepwater facilities.  Mogadiscio and Merca are lighterage
ports. There is little coastal traffic and virtually no passenger traffic.
Iviogadiscio, the principal import port, handles about two-thirds of the
coluntry's imports but only about 5 percent of its exports.  Berbera is the
only major port on Somalia's northern coast and the principal outlet for
livestock exports.  Merca and Chisimaio, located respectively 90 km ancl
500 km south of Mogadiscio, are primarily banana export ports but also
hanidle small quantities of imports. Chisimaio also exports livestock and
meat products and handles, during the southwest monsoon season, some import
cargo destined for M4ogadiscio. After the completion of the proposed pro-
je'1z 2t lhogcadicic,, the Port of ivierca is expected to cease operation.
Air TransDort
2P..      6omalialz' donestic air transport system (,omali Airlines) has
lirect fliglhts between ivlogadiscio and twelve other centers. Domestic and
intenzational air freight transport is negligible, an(d domestic pqssenper



-7-
movements reached only 18,000 in 1969, but have been growing at an annual
average rate of 19 percent in recent years. Between 1965 and 1969, inter-
national passenger traffic grew at about 26 percent annually, but only a
few international airlines visit Somalia because of the small demand.
Organization
26.       Four ministries are concerned with the transport sector:   the
iviinistry of Planning and Uoordination; the vivinistry of iiublic wvorks,
through its Department of Civil E'ngineering, responsible for planning and
constructing transport infrastructure and for highway maintenance; the
FIinistry of Transport for vehicle registration and cont:rol, and through
the Somali Fort Authority (SPA), for ports; and the M1inistry of Interior
for highway traffic control. No Govermment agency exists to oversee the
functioning of the whole sector, but there is no pressing need for one at
present.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
27.       in November 1964, the Bank made a technical assistance grant of
$311,000 for a preliminary engineering study for a new deepwater port at
10ogadiscio and in ?ebruary 1967, the consultants Societe Grenobloise
d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques (SUGREAH, France) produced a
master plan for a new seven-berth port. An appraisal mission which visited
Somalia in May, 1967 found the proposed two-berth first stage to be techni-
cally and economically sound, but there were insufficient IDA funds
available at the time to finance the project. The closure of the Suez
Canal also created uncertainty at the time about traffic forecasts. An
engineering credit of $550,000 (s5-so of March 3, 1969) subsequently
financed detailed engineering for a three-berth first phase, and engineer-
ing was completed in 1970. In the meantime, there was a change of Govern-
ment in Somalia, brought about by a military coup in October 1969. An IDA
mission appraised the project in its present form in November/December
1971 and negotiations were held in Washington in September 1972. The
Somali delegation was headed by Mr. Ahmad Mohamed Mohamud, the Secretary
of State for Planning and Coordination.
28.       A report entitled "Appraisal of M4ogadiscio Port Project - Somalia"
(No. PTR-124a dated February 14, 1973) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately, and a summary project description is attached as
Annex III to this report.
Present Port
29.       The service area of Mogadiscio port constitutes the most produc-
tive part of the country and has the greatest potential for economic



development. It covers most of the southern region, an important live-
stock-raising area, including the agricultural area between the Giuba and
Scebeli rivers. 'The present port does not have sheltered deepwater
facilities and loading and unloo?ding by lighters is inefficient and is
often made impossible by the choppy seas, particularly during the monsoon
season. Substantial export and import traffic is carried uneconomically
to other ports despite the convenient location of Mogadiscio.   The Govern-
ment consequently gives the highest priority to the new deepwater port in
its current Development Plan.
T'he Project Description
30.       The proposed project, the first stage in the master plan, would
provide for new sheltered deepwater berths, eqeuipment and technical
assistance to introduce efficient port operations. It would include:
(i)     the construction of a 770 m breakwater, three berths
(two of 16C) m and one of 140 m), a dolphin berth
(65 m) for mooring livestock vessels, a marshalling
area for livestock, an access road, and two transit
sheds, one warehouse and ancillary buildings;
(ii)    the purchase of cargo-handling equipment, a tug, and
harbor and navigational equipment;
(iii)   the provision of engineering supervision services and
technical assistance and training in port operations,
accounting, tariffs, and management.
The project would be implemented over a four-year period.   The Department
of Civil Engineering of the Ministry of Public Works would be responsible
for construction of the port.  SPA will be responsible for the technical
assistance and equipment elements and for the operation of the completed
port.
Cost and Financing Plan
31.       The estimated total cost of the project (net of customs duties)
is $25 million. The bids for the civil works element (over 90 percent of
the project) were received in January (see paragraph 40 on procurement)
and are being evaluated. Since an award has not yet been made, a firm
contract price is not available, but the bidding indicates that the actual
contract price will be well within the above estimate. The $20 million
foreign exchange component is high (about 80 percent) because Somalia
lacks most of the suitable construction materials. A local sub-contractor
might be employed on a limited scale. FED has agreed to provide a grant
to finance the project jointly with IDA. The IDA credit and the bED grant
would each finance 50 percent of the project cost, i.e. up to about $12.5
million equivalent each.



9 -
32.       The proposed IDA credit also includes an amount of $450,000 to
refinance the outstanding balance of Credit S5-6O of March 3, 1969. Thus,
the total amount of the IDA credit would be $12.95 million.
33.       IDA and FED between them will finance the whole cost of the
project.  Since independence, Somalia has been faced with a severe finan-
cial constraint and has had to rely on external resources not only for the
whole of its development budget, but also to finance a large part of its
recurrent budget. It is to Somalia's credit that the Government has now
achieved a small surplus in the recurrent budget and, with careful huisband-
ing of its resources, should be able to cover the increase in recurrent
expenditure arising from its development program. One of the means
employed by the Government to balance its recurrent budget has been to
require SPA and other autonomous agencies to cut their costs and remit all
surplus revenues to the Government. Perhaps in the future, the Government
will be able regularly to achieve a surplus which would permit a small
contribution to the capital cost of the development program, but for a
long time Somalia will have to rely on external sources of capital to
finance virtually the whole c,f its investment program.
Management and Operations of SPA
3h.       SPA, established in 1962, would be responsible for the operation
of the port after completion of the construction work. SPA's functions
are to administer the country'e ports, to promote the development of ports
and to render services to port users. SPA is headed by a President
responsible to the Secretary of State for Transport. The Government
recently amended the relevant law to restructure SPA, providing for a Board
of Directors and a Managing Director to strengthen its management; it also
undertook to appoint a qualified and competent financial manager. The
project would provide services of management consultants to review the
organization and administration.
35.       SPA's financial condition is satisfactory and its operating
ratio is expected to remain stable at its current acceptable level of
around 70 percent. The debt/equity ratio is not expected to exceed 42/58
after completion of construction of the project, which is also acceptable.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that SPA would not incur any
debt unless its net revenue would be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements of succeeding years. Assurance was also obtained that
all necessary steps shall be taken to maintain SPA's financial rate cf
return on net fixed assets of at least 5 percent; during negotiations it
was also agreed that SPA's tariff policy would properly reflect the costs
of relevant facilities and services.
Onlending Terms
36.        The onlending terms in this case have been determined in con-
sultation with FED, taking into account that in such cases it is normal
FED policy that the ultimate beneficiary enjoy the same terms as the
recipient government. RED has agreed that its grant to the Government
would be passed on as equity investment in SPA, but on condition that the



- 10 -
proceeds of the iDA credit be passed on to 'rA on 1JA terms.   We have
accepted this arrangement since in fact this departure from our usual
policy on onlending terms will not result in any subsidy to port users.
As pointed out in the preceding paragraph, SPA is to fix port tariffs at
levels necessary to maintain at least a 5 percent financial return on its
net fixed assets. Furthermore, under the Law on finances of Public
Enterprises and Agencies, SPA will be required to remit to the Government
(a) al1 revenue surpluses remaining after provision for operating costs,
adequate depreciation, and other reserve funds and any necessary increase
in working capital, and (b) depreciation not required by SPA for the re-
placement of equipment, improvement of operations and construction of
certain administrative facilities. Financial forecasts show that such
payments by SFA in addition to actual debt service on IDA terms would to-
gether exceed the amounts which the Government would receive from SPA if
the credit were relent on noimal Bank terms.
37.       Consistent with the foregoing, past Government borrow-ings for
port development will be charged to SPA on the same terms and conditions
as those on which the loans were incurred, and past grants received by the
Government for port development will be treated as Government equity
capital in SPA. The exchange risk in all instances will be borne by the
Government.
Benefits
38.       Total quantifiable project benefits are estimated at $3.3 million
in 1977 and are expected to increase to $5.2 million by 1986 and have been
assumed to remain constant at that level for the remainder of the project
port's life. Based on the cost estimates, the economic rate of return is
conservatively estimated at about 15 percent, but on the basis of the low
bid prices actually received for civil works, the return would be closer to
18 percent.  About 75 percent of benefits are in foreign exchange.   The
following is a summary of the project benefits:
(i)    The largest source of benefits would be the elimination
of a port surcharge on dry cargo for Mogadiscio, which
shipping lines impose because of the extended time in
port caused by the unprotected anchorage and inefficient
lighterage operations;
(ii)   The proposed new port should virtually eliminate cargo
losses at Mogadiscio port;
(iii)  Dry cargo imports destined for Mogadiscio are fre-
quently unloaded at Chisimaio and trucked to the
iogadiscio area during the monsoon season. The new
port would eliminate this uneconomic practice;



- 11 -
(iv)   Because of inadequate facilities, the present port
of Mogadiscio now handles only a fraction of the
livestock exports originating in its hinterland.
Most animals from the area are transported on the
hoof, at substantial cost, to the recently con-
structed port of Berbera some 1,250 km north of
Mogadiscio. Diversion of this traffic would reduce
inland transport costs and improve the earnings
from livestock exports;
(v)    The present use of the lighterage port of Merca for
banana exports from the Afgoi-Genale area results
in substantial costs in ship waiting time and in
damage to and loss of banana cargo. Construction
of a banana berth in Mogadiscio and termination of
banana exports through Merca would shorten ship
waiting time and substantially reduce cargo losses;
and
(vi)   More efficient operations at the new port would
generate marginal traffic that would not otherwise
materialize, but this benefit cannot be quantified
because of lack of data. The generated traffic
would also create additional employment in the port
and elsewhere, which would help to offset the
immediate unemployment to be caused by the elimin-
ation of lighterage operation and termination of
Port Merca's function. The Government plans to take
active measures to create employment around Merca
including the expansion of Crash Programs and the
establishment of a new administrative capital.
It is expected that the combined effect of (iii) through (vi) would help
to increase the total volume of dry cargo traffic through Mogadiscio from
an annual average of 160,000 tons in 1970 and 1971 to about 525,000 tons
in 1981 and 660,000 tons in 1986.
39.       Port regulations will be promulgated as necessary to enforce
upon port users the proper use of facilities to eliminate environmental
pollution and the avoidance of acts likely to induce such pollution.
Procurement and Disbursement
4o.       The civil works contract, accounting for about 90 percent of the
total project cost, will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Past experience in Somalia shows that bids sometimes
substantially exceed estimates. To ensure before presenting the credit to
the Executive Directors that the proposed financing plan would be
adequate, it was therefore decided to conduct the bidding in advance, and



- 12 -
bids were received early in January 1973. Wide interest was showi in
prequalification and nine bicds (several well below the estimate) were
received and have been evaluated by the Government and its consultants
SOGREAH. Port operating equipment costing about $600,000 would also be
procured on the basis of international tender. FED's usual requirement
is that contracts under its financing be awarded only to firms in the EEC
and its associate member countries, but in this instance it has waived
this requirement and firms from any member of IDA and from Switzerland
may compete. For engineering consulting services the Government has con-
tinued to retain SUGREAH, who carried out preliminary and detailed
engineering satisfactorily.  A management consultant would also be
employed. Disbursements under the FED grant and IDA credit would be made
pari passu and would cover 100 percent of the cost of civil works, equip-
ment, technical assistance and engineering services. The proposed credit
includes p--ovision for retroactive financing of engineering consulting
services expenditures made after March 1, 1972 up to $30,000.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIJNENTS AND AUTHURITY
h1.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Demo-
cratic Republic and the Association; the draft Project Agreement between
the Somali Port Authority and the Association; the draft Administration
Agreement among the Somali Democratic Republic, the Association, and the
European Developnent A?nd; the Recommendations of the Committee provided for
under Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associ-
ation; and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Development
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
42.       The draft Administration Agreement sets forth various adminis-
trative procedures, such as withdrawal of the proceeds, procurement,
exchange of information, and consultation, which are of common interest to
the three parties concerned.
43.       In addition to the standard conditions of effectiveness, the
following conditions would apply: (a) the execution and delivery of the
Agreement between FED and Somalia providing the grant has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Somali Government; (b) al1 conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled; and (c)
the execution and delivery of the Administration Agreement on behalf of
the Somali Government have been duly authorized or ratified.
44.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 13 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
45.       I recommend that the Executive Director:s approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 22, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
COUNTRY DATA - SOMALIA
AREA       2              POPULATION                                               DENSITY     2
637,000    km              2.86 million (mid-1971)                             4.4 persons per km
Rate of Growth: 2.2   (from 1965tol970 )            36 persons per km2 of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1965-70)                              HEALTH (1968)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)  46                                  Population per physician
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)  24                                  Population per hospital bed 670
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                               DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
7. of national income, lowest quintile  %..                       % owned by top 10% of owners
highest quintile ..                         % owned by smallest 10% of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
% of population - urban..                                         % of population - urban
- rural  ..                                                       - rural
NUTRITION                                                         EDUCATION
Calorie intake as % of requirements   .                           Adult literacy rate %        1971: 5
Per capita protein intake            ..                           Primary school enrollment % 1970:   8
1/
CNP PER CAPITA in 1970 : US $70
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1971                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US $ Mln.       %                      1960-65          1965-70            1971
GNP at Market Prices                      100.0                     ..
Gross Domestic Investment       *.          ....
Gross National Saving
Current Account Balance         0.8
Exports of Goods, NFST         h8.3         ..                      3.2              3.1               9.8
Imports of Goods, NFS2_        66.3                                10.3             -2.0              39. 0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                       Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US   Mln.     %                    Mln.        %                   US $       _%
Agriculture                    ..        ..                    ..
Industry                       ..        .                     ..
Services                       ..        .                      ..        ..
Unallocated
Total/Average             ..      100.0                            100.0                  * .       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                         Central Government
(omali Sh.Mln.)          % of GDP            (Somali Sh.Mln.        % of GDP
1971         1971     1969-71               1971        197 1   1997 1
Current Receipts                     ..           ..         ..                   337
Current Expenditure                  *-                                           32L
Current Surplus                       ..           ..13
Capital Expenditures                  ..           ..        ..                   139
External Assistance                  ..            ..        ..                   152
1/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at 1970 market prices, calculated by the same conversion
technique as the 1972 World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are
at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2/ The rate of growth relates to merchandise in current prices.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX 1
Paee 2 of 2
COUNTRY DATA - SOIALIA
Sept.       Sept.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                       1965        1969        1970         1971        1971         1972
(Mils. of Somali   Sh. outstanding end period)
MNoney and Quasi Money                      220          327         365         392
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 38          67          126          72
Bank Credit to Private Sector               178          234         182         25,
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 'A of GDP            ..           ..          ..          ..           ..              1/
General Price Index (1963 = 100)            127.7        135.L       136.6       135.8        135.8-'     130.33-
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          12.7          6.3         0.9       - o.6          0.0/     -    .11/
Bank credit to Public Sector               - 11.2          8.0        88.0       -43..
Bank credit to Private Sector                1C.0         1CA4       -22.2         39.3
BAI,ANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1969-71)
1969     1970      1971                                               US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)                    Bananas                             8.5    25.9
Live animals                      17.5     53.I
Exports of Goods, NFS          h8.2    L0.0 °     8.3                Meat and Meat products              1.5     h.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          71.3     62.0     66.3                 Hides & Skins                      2.3     7.0
Resource Gap (deficit =      -)   -23.]  -f7     -T30
Interest Payments (net)         0.8       l.h    - 0.3               All other cofncodities              3.0     9.3
Workers' Remittances                                -                     Total                         321 0   OQ_ 0
Other Factor Payments (net)      -        -         -
Net Transfers                  10.9     13.0      19.2             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1970
Balance on Current Account    -13.1    -5T7        O.o
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment       2.3      L..5     1.6
Net MLT Borrowing                                                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             73.9
Disbursements                5.6      3.L      1.0                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                  -        -         -                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                     5.6       1. 1.0
Capital Grants                 10.2     12.2     17.1              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1971T
Other Capital (net)            16.2     '7'.1      3.3                                                         %
Other items n.e.i               1.0    -=Qj     -J
increase in Reserves (+)        6.3      8.0      7.9                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed            2.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)      20.0     26.1      32.4               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves    (end year)      7.2     15.3      23.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, Jan. 31, 1973   (Million US $):
Throug4  Dec. 1971                                                                                  IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 = So.Sh.7.11L3
So.Sh 1.00 = US $ C.16O                                         Outstanding & Disbursed                -         1C.01
Undisbursed                           -          11.91
Sinice Dec. 1971                                               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         -          Tr5TO
US $ 1.00 = Se.Sh 6.925
SO. Sh. 1.00 = US $ 0.1-L
1/ Thir(i quarter.
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



STAFUS OF 1i3NK G.ROUP OPERATTONIS Th SO?LLIA
A.  Statement of IDA Credits  (as at January 31, 1973)
(Us   r million)
No.       Year    Borrower        Purpose             Amount   Undisbarsed
74-3O    1965    Somalia     Highway (Afgoi-          6.20         -
Baidoa Road)
123-50    1968    Somalia     Highway - Supple-        2.30        0.32
mentary (Afgoi-
Baidoa Road)
S5-50    1969    Somalia     Port of Mo-adiscio       0.55         -
(Engineering and
Accounting Services)
247-S0    1971    Somalia     Education                3.30        3.26
295-SO    1972    Somalia     Highway (Hargeisa-
Berbera Road)           9.60         8.36
TOTA L                             21.95       11. 9.
B.  Projects in Ececution
74-SO and 123-SO: Highway (Afgoi-Baidoa) - Construction was completed
in TMarch 1971. The contractor, however, submitted claims and arbitration
is under way.
247-sO:  Education -  The project mainly provides for the construction,
furnishing and equipping of one new secondary school, extensions to ten
secondary schools, the National Teacher Education Center, one technical
school, and one technical and comrercial school and eight mobile units
for agricultural training.  Implementation is about six months behind
schedule mainly because: (a) the arrival of experts to assist in the
implementation of the project was delayed; (b) a series of changes
was made in the higher echelons of the Ministry of Education including
the Project Unit Staff; and (c) the Project TJnit in charge of the
execution of the project has not been adequately strengthened. However,
the experts took up their duties in August 1972 and their presence
should contribute substantially to improved operations; a full-time
Project Unit Director is expected to be appointed shortly; and we plan
to intensify our follow-up of the project by frequent staff visits.
The construction of the new secondary school has been completed.
295-SO: Highway (Hargeisa-13erbera) - Construction started last year
on schedule.  Selection of consultants for feasibility study, detailed
engineering and technical assistance in transport planning is under way.






AulT1EX III
Page 1 of 2
C- REDIT ,kND PHOJv1;CT SHM,1A IY
Horrcwer:             Somali Democratic Re-jublic
t3eneficiary:         The Somali Port Authority (SPA)
Amount:               US312.95 million equivalent in various currencies.
72erms:               Standard
Relending rPerms:     IDA terms
Project Description:  The construction of a new sheltered port at Mogadiscio.
The project will include:
(a) the construction of:
(i)    a 770 m breaknwater;
(ii)   three berths (two of 160 m and one of 140 m);
(iii)  a dolphin berth for mooring livestock vessels;
(iv)   a marshalling area for livestoclc;
(v)    an access road;
(vi)   two transit sheds, one warehouse and
ancillary buildings;
(b)  the purchase of some cargo-handling eoui?ment,
a tug, and harbor and navigational equimnent; and
(c)  engineering supervision services, technical
assistance, and training in port operations,
accounting, tariffs, and management.
Project Fntity:       The Civil Engineering Department (CED) of the Ministry
of Public Works will be responsible for the execution
of the civil works.  SPA will be responsible for
equipment, technical assistance and the operation and
maintenance of the completed nort.



-PLT-IX III
Page 2 of 2
`ost of Project:                                         (US ! millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil T.UOrks                   4.5      l6t-T    2TT
Engineering and Supervision     0.1       0.9     1.0
Operating Equipment              -        o.6     0.6
Technical Assistance            0.0       0.3     023
TOTAL PROJECT COST              4.6      20.3    24..9
Financing:                                          (US 3 million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total 1/
IDA CredLit                     2.3      10.2    12.5
FED Grant                       2.3      10.2    12.5
4.6      20.4    25.0
1/  In addition to this, IDA would refinance the
outstanding balance of the previous engineerin7
and accounting credit amounting to N450,000,
making the total amount of IDA credit 't12.95
million.
Procuremennt
flrocedures:          (i)  The civil worlcs contract will be awarded after
international competitive bidding.
(ii) Port operating equipment will be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
Consultants:          (i)  SOGIlFA11 has been retained as the engineering
consultant to provide continuity with previous
services.
(ii) A management consulting firm will be employed.
E itiina ted
2isbursements:        FE73     FY74     FY75     FY76
1.3      3.6      4.0      3.6
Rate of Return:       15 percent
Appraisal -Report:    Report Nio PTR-124a, Februar-r   , 1973
Eastern Africa Projects Department.



IBRD  10007
~K   '~    '~'~ 44'                                                                                                 AUGUST 1972-
'PEOPLE'S REP. OF
SOUTHERN YEMEN
F. T. A.    -         U                     Gulf       of      A c/en                                                      Bereda
DJIBOUTI                                                                                             -      7
Bososo
Biv,o Karin
MeledInr
\teNORTH WN                                     T AT ST .                     ./
\,Bor am             ,y   \pper 
\Nbadid Duao§           Nhi            \ORTH EA5T                          .     IMGIURTINIA
Gordo
=ender Beila
\   \              ,                   ~~~~~~~~~~Los An odd
-s-a>  \  \   \  7,/ Goroe  /       a--
X  E >sH              I O         P         A                 |/)
0 c e a n
4                                                                                                   a n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
<:                                                    0                                              MOGADISCIO PORT PROJECT
MOGADISCIO PORT SERVICE AREA
OGADISCIO                         ~~~~~~~~~~MOGADISCIG PLACES REFERRED TO IN TEXT
Z                                                                                        +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  MAIN AIRPORTS
______                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ROAD
BITUMINOUS SURFACED, GOOD CONDITION
LLJ                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BITUMINOUS SURFACED, POOR CONDITION
GRAVEL/EARTH SURFACED ROADS,
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Y   Z O   W  f  R Z      .7,                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION
…     ---FEASIBILITY STUDY
Lilo,                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT-
a du /  /  >  CONSTRUCTION
nio G                                                                           / U B4A jn,sumo  \ ............. .FEASIBILITY STUDY
ama                                                           ----_----,--R~~~~I~~~IVERS                     !
-........  I.. REGtIONAL BOUNDARIES
So wa Tzor  7                _   . _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TJTh bo-ndori.. th,,n on Phi. mop do not                                                  I          I        D
Imply *ndonm.et or --COpt.On. by th.       \        f '10                                                      20
Worid B3nk -nd It, ollot...                                                              MILES                            C
B     SB    ISO    ISf   200   250    300
KILOM'ETERS
4.4'                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4852



