CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 359 SO
Project Agreement
(Mogadiscio Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
DATED MARCH 15, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 359 SO
Project Agreement
(Mogadiscio Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
DATED MARCH 15, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called SPA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million nine hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($12,950,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the Administration Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the European Economic Community through
its Commission as Administrator of the European Development Fund (hereinafter
called the Commission) and the Association, but only on condition that SPA agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and SPA,
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be relent to SPA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SPA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and into the Administration
Agreement with the Commission and the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Administration Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SPA shall carry out or cause Parts E and F of the Project
described in Schedule I to the Administration Agreement to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Goods
(other than services of consultants) required for carrying out Part E of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the provisions
of the Commission Agreement and the Association Agreement, and with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SPA undertakes to make adequate provision for the
insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SPA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SPA shall cause all
Goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SPA shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Parts E and F of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   SPA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the Goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section
5.03 of this Project Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the Goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as


﻿5
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the Goods financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.05. SPA shall borrow the proceeds of the Credit from the Borrower
under such terms and conditions as set forth in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Association and such other terms as the Association shall
approve, and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPA
Section 3.01. SPA shall, during the period of construction of the Project,
take all such measures as shall be necessary or advisable to ensure, to the satisfaction
of the Association, the improvement and the continued and efficient use of the
present harbor at Mogadiscio.
Section 3.02. SPA shall at all times carry on its operations under qualified
and experienced managerial staff.
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part F of the Project SPA shall employ
management consultants mutually acceptable to the Borrower, the Commission and
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, the
Commission and the Association.
Section 3.04. SPA shall adequately maintain the works, installations and
equipment used in SPA's port operations at Mogadiscio and in all other ports under
SPA's jurisdiction, and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and po!t management standards and
practices.
Section 3.05. SPA shall at all times take all steps necessary to maintain its
right to carry on its operations, including the Project, and shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire and retain
such land, interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew
such licenses, consents, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or useful
for the construction of the Project and the carrying on of SPA's operations.


﻿6
Section 3.06. SPA shall promptly employ insurance experts to assist SPA
in determining the insurable risks now being borne by SPA; and March 31, 1974
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SPA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. SPA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of SPA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, SPA shall from time to time take all necessary measures, including but not
limited to adjustments in its tariffs, as shall be required to enable SPA to earn
an annual rate of return of not less than five per cent (5%); and
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by relating the operating surplus for that year to the
average of the value of the net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii)        the term "operating surplus" shall mean the difference between
(A) operating revenue and (B) operating and administrative
expenses, including adequate maintenance and depreciation, but


﻿7
excluding interest and other charges on debt and income taxes
(if any); and
(iii)       the term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross value of fixed assets in operation less the accumulated
depreciation, both as valued from time to time in accordance
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. Subject to the requirements of Section 4.03 SPA shall by a
date not later than January 1, 1976 or such later date as shall be agreed by the
Association, take all necessary measures to introduce and maintain tariffs of dues
and rates, on the following basis:
(i)          dues and rates will be set as far as practicable for each port
individually;
(ii)         dues and rates will be levied for all ships and goods using the
ports' facilities and services; and
(iii)        except as the SPA   and the Association shall otherwise agree,
dues and rates for services and facilities will be based on, and
cover not less than the economic costs of those services and
facilities, and will take into account the desirability of ensuring
that economic benefits (particularly those enjoyed by ships)
resulting from the port investments accrue to the economy of
Somalia.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not
create or permit to be created any mortgage, pledge, charge, or other lien on any
of its property or assets; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
Section shall not apply to (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing
a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and SPA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association


﻿8
and SPA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Project Agreement or of SPA's obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and concerning the administration, operations,
financial condition of SPA, and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and SPA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Project Agreement or the performance by the
Borrower and SPA of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. SPA shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works properties and equipment of SPA related to the Project
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Project Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. This Project Agreement and all obligations of the Association
and of SPA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Project Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by


﻿9
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For SPA:
Somali Port Authority
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
SOMPORT
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of SPA may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SPA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of SPA, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by SPA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Project Agreement.


﻿10
Section 7.04. This Project Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Project Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOMALI PORT AUTHORITY
By /s/ A. A. Addou
Authorized Representative


