CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 359 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mogadiscio Port Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 15, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 359 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mogadiscio Port Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 15, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  March    15,  1973,   between   the  SOMALI
DEMOCRATIC       REPUBLIC      (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)    and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Administration Agreement
(referred to in (D) below) by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the European Economic Community
through its Commission as Administrator of the European Development Fund
(hereinafter called the Commission) to assist in the financing of such Project;
(C)   The Borrower and the Commission will enter into an agreement
(Convention de Financement) providing for a grant in an amount of Somali Shillings
86,648,000 to be used by the Borrower for the purpose stated in paragraph (B)
above;
(D)   The Borrower, the Commission and the Association will enter into
an Administration Agreement (hereinafter called the Administration Agreement)
regulating certain matters of common interest in respect of the use of the proceeds
of the financing to be provided by the Commission and the Association, including
the processing of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of such financing;
(E)   By a development credit agreement dated March 3, 1969 (hereinafter
called the First Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called
the First Credit) in various currencies equivalent to five hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($550,000) to assist in financing of detailed engineering of Mogadiscio/Ras
Sif Port works and the establishment of commercial accounting procedures for
the Somali Port Authority;
(F)   The Borrower will assist the Somali Port Authority (hereinafter called
SPA) in the execution and operation of the Project and, as part of such assistance
will (i) be responsible for the construction of Project facilities; (ii) deliver such
facilities upon completion to SPA; and (iii) relend to SPA the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided, and (iv) provide such additional funds, facilities,
services and other resources as will be required for carrying out the Project; and


﻿4
(G)   On the basis of the foregoing, the Association is willing to make the
Credit available upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the
Administration Agreement and in a Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and SPA,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"9. The term Project means the project for which the Credit is granted,
as described in Schedule 1 to the Administration Agreement and as the
description thereof shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between the parties to such Agreement.".
(b)   Article V is deleted.
(c)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes Section 6.02(h).
(d)   The words "or the Administration Agreement" are added after the
words "the Development Credit Agreement" wherever they appear in Section 8.01.
(e)   The words "or the Administration Agreement" are added after the
words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and SPA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;


﻿5
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into or
to be entered into between the Borrower and SPA pursuant to Section 4.02(a)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Law" means Law No. 70 of November 22, 1970 of the Borrower,
under which SPA. was created and is operating, and includes any amendments
thereto;
(d)   "Commission Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower
and the Commission referred to in Recital (C) of the preamble to this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time; and
(e)   "Goods" means civil works, equipment, materials, supplies and services
which are required for the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the term-
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million, nine hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($12,950,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement
and of Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended fron
time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of Goods required for the Project described
in Schedule I to the Administration Agreement and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for Goods produced in, or supplied from, such territories.
(b)   The Association shall on the Effective Date withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay itself, on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to refund
the principal amount of the First Credit withdrawn and then outstanding, together
with the service charges accrued thereon. Any amount not withdrawn from the
credit account for the First Credit shall be cancelled on the same date.


﻿6
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1983, and ending December 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall, on behalf of SPA, carry out Parts A, B,
C and D of the Project, and cause SPA to carry out Parts E and F of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in the carrying out of the Project, including
the reviewing of detailed designs, updating of cost estimates, preparation of bidding
documents, and supervision of Project civil works, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed, engineering consultants acceptable to the Commission and
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Commission and
the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, or cause to be employed, contractors acceptable to the Commission
and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Commission
and the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Goods
(other than services of consultants) required for carrying out Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the provisions of the Commission Agreement and this Agreement, with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, (hereinafter called the Guidelines) and in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to make adequate provision for
the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all Goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the Goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof in the Project:
(ii) shall, enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the Goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant icords and documents, and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to it and the Goods financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
SPA to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Administration
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations of SPA therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable SPA to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, as and when each of the facilities included
in the Project is completed, deliver each such facility to SPA for operation by
SPA, such delivery to be made free and clear of all encumbrances on the title
thereto.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall issue, or cause to be issued not later than
December 31, 1973 or such other later date as the Association shall determine,
comprehensive port regulations, which shall be applicable to all ports of the
Borrower under SPA's jurisdiction.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable
measures to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall issue promptly as needed import licenses,
visas, work permits and other necessary documents and take any other action
required to facilitate the import by the contractors and consultants of the Goods
required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) the
Borrower shall:
(i)         inform the Association of any intention to modify Law No. 58
of 1972 relating to Finances of Public Enterprises and Agencies
in sufficient time to afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to express its view thereon;
(ii)        promptly provide the Association with copies of all regulations
or rules relating to the affairs of SPA issued by the Ministry
of Finance, or other Ministry having jurisdiction thereon;
(iii)       ensure that before SPA    enters into any planned centralized
capital investments as defined in Law No. 58, the Association


﻿9
is informed of such proposed investment in sufficient time to
enable the Association to express its views thereon; and
(iv)        ensure that SPA, in financing any capital investment, shall not
incur any debt unless its net revenue for the fiscal year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ending prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever
is greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding year on all the debt of
SPA, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term  "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by SPA, except debt incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after its incurrence;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date on which a
contract or loan agreement or guarantee agreement is executed;
(iii)       the term  "net revenue" means gross operating revenue of SPA,
adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during
the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenue relates, less all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, and administrative expenses, but before provision
for depreciation, and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)        the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund provisions),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency used
in the territory of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate
of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by SPA,
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or if such other currency is not obtainable, at a rate
of exchange reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall lend the equivalent in Somali shillings
of the proceeds of the Credit to SPA under the same terms and conditions as


﻿10
set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05 and 2.06 of this Agreement under a subsidiary
loan agreement acceptable to the'Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall lend the equivalent in Somali shillings of the
amount of all prior loans allocated to the ports of Berbera and Chisimaio on the
same terms and conditions as such loans were incurred.
(c)   The Borrower shall treat as equity capital of SPA the amount of the
grant received from the United States of America (USA) allocated to the port
of Chisimaio and the proceeds of the grant from the Commission.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information, Inspection and Management
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the performance by SPA of its obligations under the Administration
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and with
regard to the administration, operations and financial condition of SPA, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including the balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of SPA.
(b)   The Borrower and the \ssociation shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes   . ith, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development


﻿- 11
Credit Agreement and the Administration Agreement or the performance by SPA
of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall ensure that SPA shall at all times carry
out its operations under a qualified and experienced managerial staff.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall consult with the Association prior to any
proposed change in or appointment to the positions of the General Manager and
Financial Manager of SPA sufficiently in advance for the Association to have
adequate opportunity to comment thereon and shall give the Association's
recommendations due consideration.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the CreCiit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and services charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the cxecution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continudnce
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare


﻿12
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the right of the Borrower to utilize the funds provided by the
Commission under the Commission Agreement shall have been suspended or
terminated, in whole or in part;
(b)   SPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Administration Agreement;
(d)   the Law shall have been changed so as to impair the ability of the
Borrower or SPA to carry out its obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Administration Agreement, the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(e)   the Law referred to in Section 4.01(a) to this Agreement shall have
been changed so as to reduce SPA's financial obligation to the Borrower.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and SPA.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿I
13
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Commission Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such agreement have
been fulfilled subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Administration Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(c)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SPA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(d)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and SPA, respectively, have been duly authorized and
ratified by all necessary corporate or governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the
agreements referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 8.01 of this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower or SPA, as the case may be, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation thereof in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date July 20. 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 5.01(a) and
5.02(a) of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
n.nd those of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿14
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of State for Finance
Government of the Somali Democratic Republic
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s / A. A. Addou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Proceeds Allocated           % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                  9,750,000          50% of total expend-
itures
II.  Cost of port                  300,000           50% of total expend-
operating                                      itures
equipment
Ill.  Engineering consulting       400,000           50% of total expend-
services                                       itures
IV.  Management consulting          150,000          50% of total expend-
services                                       itures
V.   Refinancing of First          450,000           100% of total
Credit                                         expenditures
VI.  Unallocated                  1,900,000
TOTAL           12950,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "total expenditures" means the
aggregate of foreign expenditures and of expenditures for Goods produced in the
territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to    the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures


﻿16
made after March 1, 1972 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $30,000.
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on Goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no amount of the proceeds of
the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for Sach taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit then allocated to such Category and
no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, and Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the proceeds of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of such proceeds.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any
Category shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the


﻿17
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under any such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the procedures outlined below
shall be followed for all civil works contracts, and all contracts for the supply
of equipment and/or materials required for the Project.
(a)   Prequalification, as described in paragraph 1.3 of the Guidelines, shall
be required for all civil works bidders. The Borrower shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish or cause SPA to
furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, and shall make or cause SPA
to make such modifications in the said documents as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform or cause SPA to inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish or cause SPA to furnish to the Association in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award of the said consultants, and the reasons for
the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the


﻿19
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    For purposes of comparing bids, any import duties or other local taxes
imposed under the laws of the Borrower shall be excluded.


