Document of
FILE              F               T s P lftThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2233-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 11, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977                          March 27. 1978
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)                      Cr$
US$1          - Cr$14.1                             16.845
Cr$1          - US$0.07                             0.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DER-PR    Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (estadual - Parana)
DNER      Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEIPOT    Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
IPR       Instituto de Pesquisas Rodoviarias
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
The exchange rates used in the staff appraisal report are the
following:
Exchange Rates:              Average for year
1970                    US$1 = Cr$ 5.00
1971                    US$1 = Cr$ 5.60
1972                    US$1 = Cr$ 5.90
1973                    US$1 = Cr$ 6.20
1974                   US$1 = Cr$ 7.40
1975                   US$1 = Cr$ 8.90
1976                    US$1 = Cr$10.70
1977                    US$1 - Cr$14.10
Estimate June 1978           US$1 = Cr$17.00



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                   US$114 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 7.5% interest per annum
Project Description:      (a)  Rehabilitation of 1,509 km of federal highways;
engineering for the rehabilitation of about
3,000 additional km; and assistance for improving
organizational arrangements and procedures for
highway pavement strengthening and rehabilita-
tion.
(b) Highway maintenance in the State of Parana, with
particular emphasis on creation of regional
maintenance centers; provision of plant, equip-
ment and vehicles for maintenance operations;
and state traffic safety activities; technical
assistance and training.
(c) Installation of 32 weighing stations for the
federal highway system.
(d) Completion of an on-going study on the inter-
relationship of costs of highway construction,
maintenance and use; and execution of a research
study to develop pavement evaluation and design
norms appropriate to Brazilian conditions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total    %
(US$ million equivalent)
Highway Rehabilitation    128.1          70.6       198.7     64
Highway Maintenance          14.2        11.8        26.0      8
Weighing Stations            13.6         8.0        21.6       7
Road Research                 5.4         2.1         7.5      2
Physical Contingencies       15.0         8.5        23.0      8
Price Contingencies          21.8        13.0       35.2      11
Total       198.0       114.0      312.0    100
Financing Plan: /_
US$ millions            %
- Federal Government funds               180.0               57
- State of Parana funds                   18.0                6
- Proposed IBRD loan                     114.0               37
Total                              312.0               100
/1   Including contingencies.
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Millions
IBRD Fiscal Year          1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                     4.1    55.3    44.9       8.2     1.5
Cumulative                 4.1    59.4   104.3   112.5   114.0
Rate of Return:      About 60% for the project as a whole.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 1862aBR, dated April 11, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$114.0 million to
help finance a sixth highway project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth
in GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments
performance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the
early 1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes it more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 excep-
tionally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other
exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Report on the South-Southeast Power Distribution
Project (P-2253-BR), dated March 15, 1978.



- 2 -
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention
in recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported
goods in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were
already building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world economic
crisis. Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the
subsequent two years reaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has
employed a wide range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation.
Interest rate policy has in general been realistic, except in the agricultural
sector where systematic subsidization of interest rates has complicated
monetary management. Particularly significant is the much greater control now
exercised by the Federal Government over the investment programs of public
sector decentralized agencies. There is evidence that these policies are
having effect. Inflation for 1977 was some 39%, and in the second half of
1977 inflation slowed to a rate of some 30% on an annual basis. If the
Government continues to exercise careful control over monetary and fiscal
policy, further headway against inflation is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance of payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in Brazil.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture received
explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved over
the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the priority
given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising the
living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier lands
of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive schemes
have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's industrial
development strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs in
steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods.
Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early
1980s. Beyond that point these same industries may develop a good export
potential.
8.        Public sector investment accounts for more than half of total
fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. It is heavily concentrated in
infrastructure and basic industry. These two areas together account for



., Y7OZ of total investment by federal Government agencies and enterprises.
Regional development and social programs absorb most of the remaining 30%.
Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public investment reflected a heavy empha-
sis on road construction and regional development. The 2nd National Develop-
ment Plan (1975-79) added a massive program of import substitution in basic
industrial inputs, and an acceleration in the pace of social programs. Since
1977, however, severe restraints have been placed on public investment, in
order to reduce a growing public sector savings gap and the accompanying
balance-of-payments deficit. The sectors most affected are road and rail
transport, whose ambitious expansion plans have been cut back sharply. In-
vestments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at a high
level, and in basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and petro-
leum, are being stepped up considerably. The share of regional development
programs in total federal investment has now stabilized at about 7%. The
percentage allocated to social investment is increasing gradually, reflect-
ing continued expansion of public investment in housing, water supply and
sewerage, and other urban development programs.
9.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country's poverty problem and accepts responsibility for
its alleviation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that
a high rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it
does not believe that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough
and has formulated a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution with
growth." To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social
programs initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures
in three broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social
services; and (c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended
to have a favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE f or rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is
designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which in some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based
on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous
whole. Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The Bank has made loans for integrated rural development in two of these sub-
regions, and various others are in preparation.
11.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The
Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the
previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given
by the National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which
will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also



- 4 -
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts.  In November 1974, the
Government revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and the real minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976.
While in 1977 the Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does
not signify any basic change in its longer term goal of improving income
distribution.
12.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently
improve upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising
at an average rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down
to only 2.8% a year in real terms during this period. The outlook for
Brazil's principal export commodities is quite favorable for the next several
years, and it is expected that the good overall export performance projected
here can be achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present
exchange rate policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports.
On the import side, several major import-substitution programs are already
having a notable impact. The further development of these programs should
enable Brazil to continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign
exchange reserves ensures that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will



- 5 -
depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its guarantee to
loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it
is projected tentatively that the public debt service ratio will peak in the
late 1970s at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is
projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the values of its exports by an
average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic management provides grounds for confidence in the main-
tenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can be
no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will continue
to be necessary.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
14.       By February 28, 1978 the Bank had made 74 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$3,199.4 million, of which 36 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing
to an average of US$150 million per year during FY70-75, reaching US$248
million in FY75, US$202 million in FY76, and US$267 in FY77. During the first
half of FY78 US$129 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in
FY76 was due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disburse-
ments are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Since FY75, Bank lending to Brazil has amounted to between US$400
and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million; and in FY77, seven loans
totalling US$425 million were approved. So far in FY78, four loans have been
approved: a loan of US$17 million for an integrated rural development project
in Ceara; a loan of US$24 million for an integrated rural development project
in Paraiba; a loan of US$130 million for a power distribution project in the
South and Southeast; and a loan of US$110 million for a sewage collection and
treatment project for Sao Paulo. Work is relatively advanced on the prepara-
tion of another rural development project in the northeast; an agricultural
extension project; an aluminum project; a petrochemicals project; and an urban
transport project.
16.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends
continue, as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstand-
ing would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service
would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and
private) external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.8%.
17.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of February 28, 1978, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$203 million had been cancelled, repaid



-6-
or sold. Of the balance of US$129 million, US$102 million represent loans
and US$27 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to February 28,
1978 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
18.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil
is to support institutional development and policy reform designed to develop
rational policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control,
and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. The institution-building
objective is one of the principal aims of the proposed highway loan, notably
regarding road maintenance. In past Bank assistance for the transportation
sector, there has been emphasis on the rational selection of investments, the
strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways' financial
performance. Loans to Brazil for electric power development, industrial
finance, agricultural research and extension, vocational training and urban
development also have had important institution-building objectives.
19.       Another important lending objective in Brazil is to help to intensify
the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that will
increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment of the popula-
tion, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. The loans in preparation for integrated
rural development projects in the Northeast are addressed to this objective.
They would provide credit, productive services, and social and physical
infrastructure to low-income farmers and small-scale enterprises. The loans
for nutrition research and development, vocational training, agricultural
research and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as for
integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas
Gerais, Ceara and Paraiba were all designed to assist low-income groups
in rural areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups are
in preparation, including a rural education project in the Northeast, addi-
tional integrated rural development projects in the Northeast, and several
projects which will reach low-income groups in urban areas: a site and
services project, sewerage and water supply projects in several northeastern
states, a medium-sized cities development project, and an urban transport
project.
20.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector very much supports this objec-
tive, since it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer projects



ib assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective would be achieved
through the petrochemical and aluminum projects now being prepared.
21.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Five co-financing operations for
Brazil, totaling US$204 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
22.       The large size and difficult natural terrain of Brazil, together
with its abundant agricultural and mineral resources, have given transportation
a particularly important role in the development of the economy. The principal
transport flows in Brazil reflect the regional distribution of economic activi-
ties and recent production increases, particularly of soybean and grains in
the south and iron ore and steel in the center regions. Soybean production
has grown 40 times since 1964; output of basic grains has increased more than
100% since the 1960s after vast new farming areas were opened. The seasonal
flows of produce from the southwest to consumer areas in the southeast, north-
east and north, and to ports, occupy a substantial share of the road transport
capacity. Another major contributor to the growth of freight traffic has been
the rapid expansion of the steel industry, which should produce about 15
million tons by 1980. Finally, manufacturing in the Sao Paulo industrial
area originates sizable flows to the north, most of which moves by truck
in spite of the enormous distances (up to 4,000 km) involved.
23.       Overall total domestic passenger and freight traffic has been
growing in the last decade (1966-1976) at slightly higher rates than GDP,
i.e., about 12% and 10% respectively vis-a-vis 8.5% for GDP. The share of
traffic moved by road -- 55% for freight and 65% for passengers in the early
1950s -- rose to about 70% and about 90% respectively in 1966. From 1966 to
1976, the highways' share of freight movements remained relatively constant,
but their share of passenger transport rose to over 95%. The railways' share



- 8 -
of freight traffic increased also, from 15% in 1966 to close to 20% in 1976.
In the same period, coastal and inland navigation decreased to just slightly
over 10% of freight traffic while air transport has consistently carried only
about 2% of passenger traffic.
Transport Investment and Planning
24.       Development of the national transportation network has absorbed a
considerable proportion of Brazil's total investment. From 1970 to 1975 trans-
port has consistently accounted for about 25% of gross fixed national capital
formation -- which is comparatively high and reflects the size of the country.
In 1975, about US$7,800 million was invested in the transportation sector;
about 69% went to road transport, 13% to rail transport, 8% to ports and marine
transport, 7% to air transport and 3% to pipelines and terminals. Since 1974,
transport planning has reflected the government's endeavor to reduce Brazil's
dependence on imported oil and to alleviate the impact of high prices of
petroleum products on transport cost. This policy has led to greater emphasis
on rail and water transport, to large increases in taxes on petroleum products
and other measures to save petroleum, such as limiting opening hours of gaso-
line stations, mixing alcohol with gasoline and reducing speed limits. Trans-
port planning and investment have also been affected by Government restraints
on public expenditures, including ceilings set on capital investment by public
agencies. To facilitate the execution of the government's overall investment
plans, increasing proportions of road taxes previously earmarked for highways
have been channelled through the National Development Fund to other sectors,
including rail transport, urban development and mass transit.
25.       Planning in the transport sector is carried out by each modal agency
and the coordination between them rests with the Ministry of Transport. In
addition, GEIPOT, the Government transport studies and planning agency,
provides support services and advice to other public agencies.  Over the last
two years GEIPOT has emerged as the main advisory body to the Ministry of
Transport on matters of policy and planning. GEIPOT was initially intended
for this function when it was established in 1965 as the counterpart executive
agency for the National Transport Survey. However, it did not play a major
role in transport coordination and planning until recently. GEIPOT's re-
emergence has been aided by the appointment of highly qualified individuals to
its key positions. As the technical arm of a newly formed transport planning
commission, composed of the planning directors of all modal agencies, GEIPOT
has been carrying out a number of special studies leading to the formulation
of a new national transport plan for Brazil. Some of these studies would be
completed by the end of 1978, in time to be presented to the incoming admi-
nistration. The Government has indicated that it would offer the Bank an
opportunity to review and comment on them. This would be achieved through
periodic consultations between the Bank and Brazil on transport planning and
coordination.
Railways
26.       The substantial increase in the demand for bulk transport which took
place in the early 70s, the impact of the energy crisis and the increased
attention paid to passenger transport in large metropolitan areas prompted
increased government interest in the railways and led it to undertake large



- 9 -
re-equipping and modernization programs with the support of two Bank loans.
Over the past five years there have been noticeable improvements in operations
and general administration of the railways. However, operating deficits of
both railways are still quite large, stemming mainly from an inadequate tariff
policy, particularly for freight, and continued provision of uneconomic passenger
services. Recently, however, major obstacles to financial soundness have been
removed by the Government decisions to deregulate freight tariffs and to
provide the railways with compensation for rendering uneconomic services
which the government wishes to be continued.
Ports and Waterways
27.       Although there are about 40,000 km of navigable rivers in Brazil,
they carry a relatively small share of the traffic. In contrast, coastal ship-
ping is fairly important and, although its share of the market has decreased
over the past few years, it still accounts for about 10% of freight movement.
The high fuel efficiency of water transport has prompted renewed interest in
the development of coastal shipping. Lack of support from organized trucking
and the inadequacy of port regulations appear to be major obstacles. There
are 38 important deep-water ports in Brazil in addition to a large number of
specialized bulk-facility terminals whose capacity is generally adequate.
Total port traffic was about 190 million tons in 1975, mostly foreign trade;
and has been growing at a rate of about 18% per year since 1970. Administra-
tion of Brazilian ports was recently reorganized and is now in the hands of a
public corporation whose increased flexibility has permitted improvement in
operations and progress toward financial soundness.
Highways and Highway Transport
28.       Historically, a large share of Brazilian products has moved by road.
At first, the country's highway network fanned out from its major ports. More
recently, emphasis has been placed on the integration of hinterland regions.
A basic highway network was completed and largely paved during the last
decade. From 1965 to 1970, about 10,000 km of federal (interstate) highways
were built yearly, and a further 5,000 km were paved. As a result of these
developments, Brazil has over 1.4 million km of roads and its network has
been growing about 4% annually. The federal system, which has expanded 27%
since 1971, now has about 70,000 km of highways. Since 1975, however, the
Government has curtailed the construction of new federal highways, putting
greater stress on the requirements for rehabilitating, strengthening and
maintaining the existing network.
29.       In addition to the growing demands for transport of bulk products
and passengers, the development of a domestic automobile industry in the
1950s and 1960s has been a key factor in the transport sector of Brazil. The
vehicle fleet grew at an average rate of 15% per year from 1971 to 1975, by
which time there were over 6.1 million motor vehicles (79% passenger cars and
mini-buses; 18% trucks). Since 1970 traffic growth on trunk roads has been
rapid, averaging about 15% per annum. About 50% of traffic flows in Brazil
are accounted for by trucks, about 45% by automobiles and 5% by buses.
Highway volumes are frequently above 5,000 vehicles per day. These high
traffic levels, together with the comparatively large proportion of heavy
vehicles, have caused heavy wear and tear on Brazil's roads and some 3,000 km
of paved highways need to be strengthened or rehabilitated annually.



- 10 -
30.       The trucking industry has met the increasing demand flexibly and
efficiently under conditions of free competition. Over the last decade, road
transport costs increased less rapidly than other industrial costs, reflecting
the efficiency of the industry, technological improvements, and the expansion
and improvement of the network. Government intervention in road freight trans-
port has been minimal. Proposals to establish regulation over key aspects of
trucking, in particular entry and route assignment, have not so far been
adopted. Since the oil crisis, the government has taken renewed interest in
the operations of the industry. It has sought ways to increase the truckers'
overall efficiency and to develop cheaper intermodal alternatives -- especially
on long hauls. Consideration is also being given by the government to estab-
lishing freight terminals in metropolitan areas and initiating roll-on roll-
off transport services between the south and the north of the country. The
Government has also undertaken a country-wide program to improve enforcement
of vehicle weight regulations and check overloading, the most important single
problem affecting the industry.
Highway Administration and Financing
31.       An autonomous agency under the authority of the Ministry of Trans-
port, the National Highway Department (DNER), administers the federal highway
network and participates in planning and programming of the overall highway
system. All federal resources devoted to highways are channeled through DNER,
whether for its own use or earmarked for transfer to states and municipalities.
DNER is a modern institution employing about 1,400 senior staff and has its
own research branch. State networks are administered by State Highway Depart-
ments (DERs) which are organized along lines similar to those of DNER. With
the shift in emphasis from new highway construction toward rehabilitation and
maintenance, it is intended to delegate more responsibility to the states,
which have received a growing share of highway allocations. DNER's role will
become increasingly one of coordination between federal and state authorities.
32.       Total federal expenditures for highways made either directly through
DNER or indirectly through states and municipalities, more or less doubled in
real value over the six-year period 1972-1977, reaching about US$2.9 billion
equivalent in 1977. Partial information available concerning fiscal receipts
suggests that until 1975 total federal highway expenditures were roughly 5 to
25 percent above revenues from major road user taxes; in 1976 these revenues
exceeded highway expenditures by at least 10%, reflecting the increase in the
fuel tax. The bulk of the financing for highways has come from earmarked tax
revenues, particularly revenues from the petroleum tax, whose yield was more
than doubled in real terms in 1976 as a result of price and tax increases
designed to discourage fuel consumption. Successive increases in the petro-
leum tax raised the retail price of gasoline from about US$0.98 per gallon in
1975 to about US$1.60 per gallon in 1977. Although some of the windfall from
this increased revenue is being channeled outside of the highway sector, ear-
marked taxes (including the petroleum products tax, the motor vehicle license
tax, and the road transport tax) still accounted for nearly 70% of the funds
available to DNER for highway financing in 1977. The highway sector in recent
years has also received increasing amounts of budgetary appropriations from
the Federal Government, and complemented its resources through borrowing.



- 11 -
33.       Within DNER's overall budget, there has been a substantial increase,
since 1976, in transfers to states and municipalities. On the other hand,
construction and paving, which used to be about 53% of DNER expenditures in
the year 1972 to 1974, decreased to 46% in 1975, to 41% in 1976 and is ex-
pected to amount to no more than 14% of total expenditures from 1977 to 1980.
RehaBilitation and maintenance, in contrast, have grown from an average 11%
of DNER's expenditures between 1972 and 1974, to an estimated 20% in 1977, and
are expected to continue rising to about 44% by 1980.
34.       Current projections of DNER's expenditures through 1980 show that
rehabilitation and maintenance outlays are scheduled to expand annually by
about 15% and 35%, respectively, while construction and paving expenditures
would decline by about 20% per year. Overall, DNER's expenditures through
1980 are forecast to increase at an average rate of about 12% per annum, in
line with past average increases since 1972. The funding of DNER's proposed
program is dependent on continued increase in receipts from earmarked taxes
and increasing transfers from the National Development Fund. More substantial
borrowing, both internal and external, will also be needed, although this
would represent a smaller proportion of DNER's total sources of funds than
in the past. In order to allow the Bank to maintain adequate familiarity with
the overall situation of highway financing, DNER would, throughout the project
implementation period, exchange views annually with the Bank on its budgetary
proposals and related financial plan (see Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement).
Iiighway Engineering and Construction
35.       DNER's Planning Directorate is responsible for the technical prepar-
ation of highway projects. It makes extensive use of consultant services,
provided mostly by Brazilian firms. DNER's field districts supervise consul-
tants' work under guidelines provided by DNER's headquarters. The standard of
engineering in Brazil is generally very good except, as noted in the Project
Performance Audit Report on the Second Highway Project, 1/ for occasional
lack of emphasis on in-depth geotechnical studies. Consultants are now being
given more time for these studies. State highways are also engineered by
consultants, and although states have their own road classification, design
practices generally follow DNER's manuals. The recent surge in requirements
to strengthen and rehabilitate paved highways, however, caught DNER unprepared
with regard to pavement overlay design standards. In the absence of norms
specifically developed for Brazilian conditions, DNER's Road Research Insti-
tute has begun to prepare provisional guidelines for asphalt overlay designs.
The proposed project would include a comprehensive research program in this
field.
36.       The Brazilian construction industry is highly competitive and there
are many well-organized and experienced contracting firms. In the Fifth
Highway Project, over 50 firms were prequalified for road works ranging
between US$5.0 and US$28.0 million; eight to 20 bids were received for each of
1/   Project Performance Audit Report, dated June 21, 1977 (Sec M77-520).



- 12 -
the 18 road construction lots. Quality control and supervision of works have
improved considerably during this decade. Site supervision of civil works is
usually carried out by consultants and is closely monitored by DNER's local
districts. In the course of the last four Bank-highway projects, DNER's Works
Directorate has been helped to develop sound supervision practices.
Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation
37.       As indicated in para. 28, government policy since 1975 has empha-
sized maintenance and rehabilitation. However, the previous rapid expansion
of the federal highway network has strained DNER's maintenance capacity,
forcing it to resort increasingly on contractors. In 1971, DNER began gradually
delegating the maintenance of federal highways to the state DERs in order to
avoid duplication and the high cost of contractors. After an initial impe-
tus, the delegation program has barely kept pace with the expansion of the
federal highway system; the total length of roads delegated to DER's remained
at about 20% of the federal system from 1974 to 1976. Several years of
limited success have shown that state DERs require considerable strengthening
before the delegation program can be significantly expanded.  To assist in
this objective, the Fifth Highway Project included programs to strengthen
the DERs of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul. The proposed project would
support the delegation of maintenance of federal highways to the state of
Parana, the sole additional state able to proceed at this time.
38.       The project arrangements also provide that DNER would develop and
adopt, by May 1, 1979, methods for determining adequate maintenance levels;
methods for cost accounting; and funding procedures for maintaining federal
highways, all satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 4.04(b)(ii) of the Loan
Agreement). This would provide a sound basis for DNER's payments to the
states for maintenance activities. Furthermore, DNER would, over the project
period, develop annual and pluriannual programs for pavement overlays and
rehabilitation of federal highways, and would each year exchange views with
the Bank about them (see Section 4.04(c) of the Loan Agreement). DNER would
also adopt, by December 31, 1979, adequate organizational arrangements and
procedures for developing and implementing a pavement management system for
federal highways.
Bank Participation in Brazil's Highway Sector
39.       Except for a highway maintenance loan in 1953, the Bank's continuous
and active interest in the Brazilian highway sector dates back to 1964 when
an economic mission recommended a comprehensive survey of the sector. The
ensuing National Transport Study, which was carried out in two phases from
1965 to 1970, set the basis for the rapid expansion of the primary road net-
work and the improvement of institutions for its support. Based primarily
on the Survey's conclusions, the Bank has helped finance five highway projects
and a secondary and feeder roads project. The highway loans totaling US$376
million have supported the construction and improvement of about 5,500 km of
federal and state highways, paving of 5,700 km, and final engineering design
of more than 8,000 km. Project performance audit reports have been distributed



- 13 -
to the Executive Directors on the first two projects. 1/ These reports
concluded that these projects were successfully completed. In the First
Highway Project, the audit rates of return on six of the seven roads involved
were equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates, and their construction
was completed at a cost 10% lower than the appraisal estimate. This project
also contributed to the introduction of substantial institutional changes in
the transport sector. The Second Highway Project, despite cost overruns and
delays, can also be considered a success. Its economic return was better than
that expected at appraisal. These developments have contributed much to the
proposed project, particularly by improving the capacity of DNER and Brazilian
consultants in planning, design and construction supervision practices. The
maintenance program in the State of Parana, moreover, evolved from the past
efforts to strengthen highway planning and control functions at the federal
level and operational functions at state levels. The Third and Fourth Highway
projects were successfully completed in 1977. The on-going Fifth Highway
project is progressing normally, although some delays have been encountered
with the maintenance delegation program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Sixth Highway Project - Brazil"
(No. 1862a-BR dated April 11, 1978) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary Project Data are appended in Annex III.
The project was identified by DNER in December 1975 and subsequently prepared
by DNER, the State of Parana's DER and consultants during 1976-77. The proj-
ect was appraised in November 1977. Negotiations with the Federal Govern-
ment and the State of Parana were held in Washington during March 13-17, 1978.
The Federal delegation was led by Mr. Adhemar Ribeiro da Silva, Director
General of DNER and the state delegation was led by Mr. Belmiro Jobim Castor,
Secretary of Planning. The delegation also included representatives of the
Ministry of Finance, the Secretariat of Planning in the Federal Presidency,
and GEIPOT.
Objectives and Project Content
41.       The proposed project follows and extends the maintenance element
of the ongoing Fifth Highway Project. Its main objective is to support the
Government's policy of protecting past investments in the federal highway
network by rehabilitating roads in poor condition; improving maintenance of
state and federal highways; reducing the damaging effects of the overloading
of trucks; and developing pavement design norms applicable to Brazilian con-
ditions. The proposed project would include:
1/   Loan 567 (Sec. M 76-89 of February 12, 1976) and Loan 676 (Sec. M 77-520
of June 21, 1977).



- 14 -
(a) Highway Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of 1,509 km of paved federal highways; engineer-
ing for a further 3,000 km of rehabilitation; and assistance for
improved planning, programming and engineering of pavement, re-
sealing, strengthening and rehabilitation;
(b) Highway Maintenance
Reorganization, equipping and training of the Maintenance Direc-
torate of Parana's State Highway Department (DER-PR) through:
(i) construction and equipping of regional centers, and expansion
and modernization of field districts;
(ii) plant, equipment and vehicles for road maintenance and for the
state traffic police's safety campaign;
(iii) civil works and installation of about 27 weigh bridges and
about 53 traffic control posts along state highways; and
(iv) technical assistance for project implementation and for training
of maintenance personnel.
(c) Weighing Stations
Construction and installation of about 32 weighing stations to
complete the program begun under the Fifth Highway Project for
basic coverage of vehicle weight control over Brazil's federal
highway system; and
(d) Highway Research
Completion of ongoing research on the interrelationship between
transport costs and highway design and maintenance standards and
implementation of a new program for development of criteria for
pavement evaluation and design under Brazilian conditions.
Implementation of the project is expected to take about four years from
mid-1978 to mid-1982.
Highway Rehabilitation Program
42.       The proposed project would include rehabilitation of 1,509 km
(13 roads) of paved federal highways of which 800 km are located in Minas
Gerais, 210 km in Mato Grosso, 200 km in Rio Grande do Sul, 144 km in Goias
and the remaining 155 km in the northeastern states of Paraiba and Rio Grande
do Norte. The roads are located along main trunk routes which carry a high
percentage of commercial and industrial traffic. They were selected on the
basis of economic factors, priorities for roads of states participating in the



- 15-
maintenance delegation program and consideration of the needs of Brazil's
lesser developed areas. Detailed engineering of the project roads has been
carried out by seven Brazilian consulting firms under close supervision by
DNER which was assisted by consultants. Site supervision of the works would
be undertaken by consulting firms under DNER's surveillance. Throughout the
project period, at least six experienced engineers would be attached to the
Maintenance Directorate to supervise the rehabilitation contracts. Enlarge-
ment of the staffing of the Maintenance Directorate would be a condition of
disbursement for the Rehabilitation Program (See para. 4c of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement).
43.       The proposed project includes preparation of detailed engineering
for an additional about 3,000 km of roads requiring rehabilitation. Most of
these would be federal highways in states participating, or likely to partici-
pate in the maintenance delegation program. A first group of roads totaling
about 1,710 km were selected on the basis of DNER's survey in the states of
Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana and Bahia. Before July 1, 1979, a
second group of roads totaling about 1,300 km would be selected, after con-
sultation with the Bank, from a priority list established on the basis of
a detailed inventory of the paved federal network which DNER will complete
this year. The detailed engineering of selected road sections for the proj-
ect would be carried out by consultants under terms of reference similar to
those used in the Fifth Highway Project. DNER has retained consultants to
provide technical advice to DNER's Planning Directorate for these engineering
studies.
44.       The project also would assist DNER in improving planning and pro-
gramming techniques for resealing, strengthening and rehabilitation of paved
roads through development of a pavement management system. DNER has prepared
preliminary five-year programs for overlays and rehabilitation of federal
highways in the three states (Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul and Parana)
participating in the maintenance delegation program. These preliminary five-
year programs and the related financial requirements were reviewed during
negotiations and are satisfactory.
Highway Maintenance Program (Parana)
45.       The project would strengthen Parana's State Highways Department
(DER-PR) to ensure its capability for maintaining all state and federal
highways. The project would entail a reorganization of DER-PR's Maintenance
Directorate, to be implemented beginning in January 1979. In this connection,
five new regional centers would be created and equipped; field districts ex-
panded and modernized; weigh bridges and traffic control posts installed along
state highways; and technical assistance provided, particularly for training.
Approval of the reorganization by State authorities would be a condition of
disbursement for the Maintenance Program (See para. 4b of Schedule I to the
Loan Agreement).
46.       Technical assistance would be provided under the project for plan-
ning, supervision and control of maintenance operations, coupled with a
training program which would help DER-PR set up training units at headquarters



- 16 -
and in each of the regional centers. The technical assistance would be
carried out by a firm of consultants. DER-PR's Maintenance Directorate would
assign seven full-time professionals to carry out training programs and
eventually form a permanent training group, five of whom would be assigned to
the regional centers. At least six other full-time professionals would work
with the consultants during the project. Execution and ratification of a
subsidiary agreement between DNER and DER-PR, and the registration of the
consultant's contract with the Central Bank of Brazil, if legally required,
would be conditions for disbursement for the Maintenance Program (see para.
4b of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement).
47.       Since 1974, budget allocations in Parana have been adequate for
routine maintenance and equipment renewal. DER-PR's maintenance expenditures
in 1976 amounted to about US$20.0 million equivalent (excluding periodic main-
tenance). These expenditures are expected to remain constant, in real terms,
which is satisfactory. In 1976, about US$2 million was allocated to periodic
maintenance, and the programmed expenditures for reseals and overlays in 1977
and 1978 are US$6.5 million and US$14 million respectively. The State of
Parana would allocate sufficient funds to DER-PR for routine and periodic
maintenance of the highways delegated to it by DNER during the project period
and the amount of such allocations would be reviewed annually with the Bank
(see Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement).
48.       The accomplishment of the foregoing activities and related measures
would enable DER-PR to receive a delegation of authority for maintaining all
federal highways in Parana by the end of 1984. A schedule for this delegation
has been agreed upon between DNER, DER-PR and the Bank. This schedule would
not be amended without the approval of the Bank (see Section 3.09 of the
Loan Agreement).
Weighing Station Program
49.       While Brazil has had adequate regulations on vehicle weight and
dimensions, their enforcement has been sporadic and overloading is widespread.
The mounting requirements for strengthening and rehabilitation of roads has,
therefore, alerted authorities to the necessity of more stringent inspection.
DNER has undertaken to install a comprehensive system of 127 weighing stations
which would allow more efficient enforcement on the federal network. State
authorities are also taking complementary measures. The Fifth Highway Project
includes provisions for the initial installation of 95 of the 127 stations,
which activity is expected to commence in mid-1978. The remaining 32 stations
to be installed would be provided under this project once the system has been
satisfactorily tested and put into operation. DNER's Transit Directorate
would man and operate the stations while its highway police would be respon-
sible for regulation enforcement. These arrangements are in effect at ex-
isting stations and are adequate. The Government would allocate sufficient
resources to operate and maintain the system. Within one year after the
stations are installed, the Government would initiate a monitoring system
providing for periodic review of the enforcement program (see Section 4.03(b)
of the Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Highway Research Program
50.       The research program included in the proposed project has two
components:
(a)  development of improved methods adapted to Brazilian conditions for
pavement evaluation and design, to be carried out through DNER's
Road Research Institute (IPR); and
(b)  completion of the ongoing GEIPOT/DNER study on the inter-relation-
ships of the costs of highway construction, maintenance and use.
51.       IPR's program would begin with an evaluation of DNER's present
pavement design norms and the preparation of interim overlay design methods
and updated designs. A second phase would, through field experiments and
analyses, verify and improve the design methods so as to produce well-tested
procedures for pavement evaluation and design suitable to the country's
conditions.
52.       In September 1975, GEIPOT, with assistance of DNER staff, undertook
a large-scale research program on the interrelationship of highway construc-
tion, maintenance and use. This study, to cost more than US$8 million, is
being partially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency. The
study is progressing well and is producing valuable information. However,
a year's extension beyond the present closing date of November 30, 1978 is
needed to complete the study. UNDP has stated that it will not have the
necessary funds in its 1978-79 program. Consequently, the proposed loan
would finance the foreign exchange cost of the services to be provided by
the Texas Research and Development Foundation (USA) to complete the study.
DNER would consult with the Bank, by April 30, 1980, on the results of the
research and its incorporation into DNER's design norms and manuals (see
Section 3.12 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$312 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$114 milion. A summary of project
costs is set out in the Project Summary above (see p. ii). Baseline costs
have been estimated at expected June 1978 prices. A contingency of 10% has
been added to the costs of all civil works, construction supervision and
weighing stations; 5% was used for all other items.  The provision for future
price increases has been calculated for each item separately. 1/ The total
price contingency amounts to about 14% of the base cost, primarily relating to
the Highway Rehabilitation Program, which accounts for about 80% of project
1/   The annual percentage price increases used were:
1978    1979    1980-85
Civil Works and Consultants                  8.0      7.5      7.0
Equipment, Vehicles and Plant                7.0      6.5      6.0



- 18 -
costs. Rehabilitation cost per km averages US$117,500 equivalent, which
reflects the large amount of pavement strengthening required to support
present and forecast traffic. Supervision cost estimates based on past
experience amount to about 7% of construction costs. For the Highway
Maintenance Program, consulting services required to assist DER-PR are esti-
mated at US$2.5 million. A total of about 250 man-months of local and foreign
professionals would be required over a four-year period. The cost of the
Weighing Station Program is based on detailed engineering and cost analysis
prepared for the previous program. Equipment maintenance over two years and
training of DNER's operators would be provided by the weighing equipment
suppliers. The cost estimate of the Highway Research Program assumes, that
about 450 man-months of local and foreign professionals would be required over
a four-year period. Average costs per man-month of consulting services within
the total project are US$6,000 for foreigners and US$5,000 for Brazilians.
54.       Estimates of the foreign exchange component for civil works are
based on an analysis of major construction costs. It was assumed that all
works would be awarded to local contractors, as has been the case since the
early 1970's. Rehabilitation and other civil works in the proposed project
are equipment-intensive and require substantial quantities of asphalt and
cement. Their foreign exchange component averages about 37%. Construction
supervision, engineering design and IPR's research program would probably be
carried out by local consultants. The estimated foreign exchange component
of these services is 24%. Consulting services for the maintenance program
wouldebe provided by local and foreign firms; the foreign exchange component
would be about 40%. Most of the equipment, vehicles and plant for the
maintenance program is expected to be produced locally and a foreign ex-
change component of 50% has been estimated. The supply, installation and
maintenance of weighing equipment would have a foreign exchange component
of about 37% , including some imported equipment components. Specialized
testing equipment for the research program would have to be imported.
Financing and Disbursement
55.       The proposed loan of US$114 million would be equivalent to almost
37% of the estimated total cost of the project, and to 100% of the foreign
exchange costs. The Federal Government would finance about US$180 million
equivalent with the State Government of Parana financing the US$18 million
equivalent balance. Government contributions to the cost of the rehabilita-
tion, weight control and IPR's research components would be made through the
DNER budget. The Government has confirmed that it would provide DNER with
sufficient funds for this purpose. The local cost of the maintenance program
would be met by the State of Parana through the budget of the DER-PR. The
State Government has confirmed that sufficient funds would be made available
for this purpose. As in previous projects, DNER would administer a revolving
fund for payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants and for reimburse-
ment of DER-PR's project expenditures and an initial deposit into the fund of
US$2 million equivalent would be a condition for loan effectiveness. Addi-
tional funds would be provided regularly in amounts sufficient to meet ex-
pected needs (see Section 3.05(b) of the Loan Agreement). Experience with
revolving funds in the earlier four projects has been satisfactory.



- 19 -
56.       Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) For highway rehabilitation, 36% of total expenditures for civil
works and consulting services for supervision and engineering;
(b) For highway maintenance, 40% of total expenditures for civil works,
equipment, vehicles and technical assistance;
(c) For the weighing stations, 36% of total expenditures for civil
works and 100% of foreign expenditures for supply and installation
of weighing equipment; and
(d) For highway research, 36% of total expenditures for consulting
services to IPR; 100% of foreign expenditures for advisory services
to IPR and GEIPOT; and 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas
training and for equipment.
The 40% disbursement percentage for highway maintenance expenditures in the
State of Parana is identical to the level financed for similar programs in
the States of Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais under the Fifth Highway
Project. This also reflects the relatively higher foreign exchange cost of
parts of this program than of other activities under the proposed project.
Execution and Procurement
57.       As in the previous highway projects, DNER would be responsible for
the execution of the proposed project, with the exception of the maintenance
program in Parana. The latter would be the joint responsibility of DNER and
DER-PR under the arrangements defined in the subsidiary agreement between the
two organizations.
58.       Construction contracts for rehabilitation works would be procured
by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  Bid-
ding would be in two batches at about six-months apart. Supervision of the
rehabilitation works as well as detailed engineering for rehabilitation of
further highways would be carried out by consultants under conditions and
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank and in line with similar arrange-
ments under previous highway projects.
59.       For the maintenance program, equipment and vehicles for road main-
tenance and specialized equipment (radio and radar units) for weighing and
traffic control would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for construction of less than
US$1 million equivalent of regional centers and expansion of district offices,
workshops, stores and laboratories, and for weigh bridges and traffic control
posts along state highways would be procured following procedures which are
in accordance with Bank Guidelines and allow for adequate competition. Bids
would be advertised locally since the contracts would be too small and
scattered to attract foreign firms not already established in Brazil. Because
of the large number of small contracts expected, the Bank would review and
approve in advance standard procurement documents. Awards would be reviewed



- 20 -
in advance, except that contracts amounting to less than US$1.0 million would
be reviewed on an ex post basis; however, work contracted under this procedure
would not aggregate more than US$8.0 million. For contracts of more than
US$1 million equivalent, procurement would be carried out by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
60.       Contracts of less than US$500,000 equivalent for supply and instal-
lation of tools and equipment for the regional and district offices, workshops,
stores and laboratories would be procured through procedures which are in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Bids would be advertised locally, since
these contracts would be too small to attract foreign firms not already
represented in Brazil. Because of the large number of purchases expected, the
Bank would review and approve in advance standard procurement documents.
Awards would also be reviewed in advance, except that contracts amounting to
less than US$500,000 would be reviewed ex post; however, purchases contracted
under this procedure would not aggregate more than US$3.0 million. Civil
works as well as the weighing equipment for the weighing station program
would be procured by international competitive bidding, in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. Specialized proprietary testing equipment (about US$120,000)
for the research program would be procured directly from the suppliers. For
contracts for equipment of more than US$500,000 equivalent, procurement would
be carried out by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
Benefits and Risks
61.       Benefits of the proposed project would accrue to the economy at
large in the form of savings in, or avoided increases of, vehicle operating
costs and savings in and/or avoided maintenance costs. The average weighted
economic rate of return for the full project has been estimated at 60%. For
the 13 roads to be rehabilitated, the economic returns range from 31% to over
100% (which are much higher than the opportunity cost of capital estimated to
be 11%). The economic rate of return for the maintenance program in Parana is
estimated at 18%. This estimate is conservative since the impact of improved
technology and better programming of reseals and overlays which should result
from the program was not included in the assessment of this rate of return.
The economic rate of return for the expanded weighing station program is
estimated at 29%, based on avoided overlay costs due to longer pavement life.
In addition, the project is expected to have a significant impact on highway
safety. The rehabilitation component would contribute to safer driving
conditions on heavily trafficked federal highways, and the maintenance program
includes a specific component to expand the safety campaign initiated by the
state of Parana.
62.       DNER's technical capacity, as well as the level of competence of
the road engineering and contracting industries, have been demonstrated
previously. The arrangements for supervision are adequate and reflect past
good experience. Therefore, the physical implementation of the project
presents no special risk. While past efforts toward strict enforcement of
weight regulations in Brazil has achieved limited success, the detailed
preparation and broad support behind the proposed enforcement program give
reasonable expectation of success. The impact of the program would be closely



- 21 -
monitored. Ongoing maintenance delegation programs have suffered delays
mainly due to shortfalls in funds and the backlog of rehabilitation. These
would be partly remedied under the proposed project. The institutional
and financial capacity of DER-PR to take up increased responsibilities under
the delegation program will be strengthened. Consequently, while recognizing
the inherent difficulties attached to road maintenance, the proposed project
does not present unacceptable risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Parana and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sectiqn 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As noted previously, disbursements for the Highway Rehabilitation
Program would be conditional upon receipt by the Bank of evidence of satisfac-
tory staffing arrangements of DNER s Maintenance Directorate (see para. 42).
Disbursements for the Highway Maintenance Program would be conditional upon
(a) execution and ratification of a DNER-DER Subsidiary Agreement; (b) approval
of the reorganization of DER-PR's Maintenance Directorate; and (c) registration
of consultant's contract, if legally required (see paras. 45-46). A condition
for loan effectiveness is the payment of an initial US$2 million into DNER's
revolving fund (see para. 55).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I. P. M. Cargill
Attachments
April 11, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANlElt  I
Pat& I
smali.                   *  S!SCIAL  ?NOICAt?o0   0AT?  SKEET
LANDi A4CA (THiOU   tSt2                       ..... ............,.,.............................
...... .........         -REF90ERENCE COUJTQIES  t19700
ToTA3        *Si2.0 o                                                 osr 9ECE0T
AIC.          2029. 6                            t9so         1970    ESE lqATE               MEY ICCO           URUGUAY            JJ1004
3N9  PEI 0ArT1A  CUSS)                            30030* s1. *                                       690.0 *          t40.0      2639.0'
....................
P00.LATh'N  AND V?TAI sr&TTIrTCS
'3*0099Tnbt 3030.09,  tLLL|3NI                   b9,tt        2.t        I I0.0  Io 50.                            2.7         104.3
21PULA?V1'J oENSry
'E. s2qar K..                                  90           10           1 3.0  Ia               26.0           19.0         280.0
'IS  t', *0N. AGPICJLTL U        .h, LA.0      44.0        a9,0          54.0 77                 52.0           19.0        174 .0
VITAL STAtISTTCS
C't:01F 4T*OT   MATE  (C/r*ou. AV)            U0.4         18 .a         37.1                    43 A           22.1           17.s
c 'of oFrTW RT!  C13tOt7U,1T)                 tl.7           9.9          A ,9t                  10,             9,2            7,1
TVjs7T W.ISRLTY RON NTV.AULI                 10.9        110.0            *b e's5                                .            1l.l
LINE  EYPECT&ACY  AT  SIR70  (VMS)            5'. 0        5 34          b . la                  ba.j           63            71.1
em7s19   Or'Q1,tuCTI34  'LATF                  2.s           2.6           .5                     3,t            1,4            1.0
*0PULATIIN 3c41-TOr eR&T (S)
rnzAL    -                                     5n.           2 e          2.9                     3.a            0.7            1.0
524*                                           5.5          5,0           4.0                    40.             1.2              00
J99A.  ft3M.L&rylo.   ( 13 it oo.Toj1                         sr.el  ,o 9   5S9.07                                78.1           84.0
39 0L1UCTUSF (t'9C1910
0 0It j4 YI&9                                41.0l        *2.n o         1.7                                  26.3           2 a0
IS  T' t4 ra asS                              54 n         55.0         ss35.1                    0 s*I,5                     b0e4
oS Y!'QA  ''5 *   vr           3               S.o           3.0          3.2                     1,7              .2           7.1
&SE 0.DEO EN* CY 9*0T3                            0.9          0.8           9.9 A                     r           0.6              .5s
!C14..TC: n *EDF ENCY  Q *I.                      1.6           1.5          1.4 /b                                   0 1.0        o.
'al TI Y 0Lh'.t4J
11t09  03 nf V690103  *L3"6.                                              .. 1..                                                 ..
T3T13   ,0'o   CI009RCE  fT4uS*'.O)          72700,o    29400,0          34100 0               11330n,^         t 20. 0      53300.0
I.4*10   tw,r  IN 4GQTCJ6?tlsE  CI               52. 0        40.4          37 8                    us.n          17.0           19.0
33 '3O   t L434 VCE0                ..           7-5          5.0                      *-            6.0 Ia         1.2
tN.3-E IT9TQ8ULPY)N
...................
X 'F 09T3ATv O9Ci1'4E PiCIO 99.
aIn-!i?  SX  IN  tO SELHOL3'                  3R, /        355.0 /a         ,                                   19.0 /b       14,2
~InONST  20x orr MljiEHOLDS                   da.1 /-a    2,o7,T           ,, 7as,2                             ,7s7b;        37.
L"IEIS    2 01 Of N3JSEkLM3                    3. s577       3.n7a         ..                      .             40 .'7b        8.8:
L.wE3 T   00I   or .i3JSL4o1          s            10.3 /    9,0o7a                              I, 10.2  *     14.27b        a2,3
)IST00l4o   I4 nt  LAN) )w33.*!0qf P
X   -*.FI .   TIM 0L0 3W I'o...p93                 ..          1,5            ,,                      .s, 
.  .......F. .. S.L.EST  I0  2E9.                                . 5 .
'3")Lt'10'. 1.99 '*wr5C1*'I 2170,0                         13I0,3         1650.0 Ic               4an' n         a 880.0        aa80.0
2O0-LA1trll P*E    1J4S0I  P'C3.                           3 5220,0lb   02030.L,b                 1670 0/s   S3340 0            240.0
31P )L a0!    *CR I E    ILALA 1 Fn '75,0 2.0,0                            260.0                  I60.I n10.0                    80.0
T'LI3. rS  r2  7'  4FIJ1PDE",T41             102.11      lO,o          115.0                   I 33,0        107.0          106.0
20'7TI4  1GRA*"   J'*  )Afo                  6Sl I         b4,0          67.0                    o.59           39,o          7s,0
-:~ , &rc 0 0 1rs    *o'.  c 0E    3A.0           9.o0           .                    2'.m Lb        6 4.0           5,0
73s". oOTr (/Tlu) 4GEA T.4                          ,            .            ..                      *             1.3           1.0
A3IVJ1Tr3 FN03LL4tEyT  9*?3't
*0T1.aq   *C4I0L                              95.0         47,0           86,0                  104k.0        106.0          100.0
i9E'i4)aY Stw)rt.                            11 .0                       26,0                   22,0           57.0           91.0
YE0O9   IF qCWO9ML09   P7JVJ3EM
fry?Ir AN13 *E334,t 1E.0,LI                   I1.0         1I.,0         11.0                    12.n           12.0          12.3
tS  i' t CcTltAtYI                            19.n          17.0         15.0 Id                 ?J.0           21.0          20.0
A) 1.0  l*t0AC 0W      E 7 COO                    I .10       64 0            .                     76.0          91.0           99,0
...s....
ER9.144  cER 90,      t! ()Jq9A0*)                  *           10           1 . t/c                 2. 2            ..             . 0
1CCJtPfE  n4ELLI0G3 4INOOUT
'I'll t ATER  1X)                                           7 3-  /c     66.2 /                       10 I/c       ..           5,0
&CCEIS rl FLFcTIclTTY
rtg nr 4LL 3-ELLsssl!)                                     4S 0          55.659n,
7u44L 5-CLLIN58 C34%9ECrED
01 ELEC!1I0TrY (x)                               *.o                     12.5                    28.0              .
CO9'S:I-.OTT0
.... _._  _...
:,IT' -_.-TVET    S  (PR t_31l -CIO)              ,.0 n         o,o         62.0                  276,3          30b,0          551.0
a&cor -.:o  Coq. (PE0     0u j   P00I 7.0                   2z5.           35.0                    24.0          45.0           84.0
:LFT'''C0TTV t .4/0  OEM CAR)                  1740          U41.0        69, 0                   567.0          762.0         S5391 ,
4E.Sv0tl" T  fXG/9  D59 :*&1                      I .           2 7          2.5                     3.2            7.0         1Ift,
......... .................  3.   , V995,
SEE InT?$ *4t IEFtNTTj94q IN DtVConS



-23-
Page 2
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betweent 1968 and 1970 and for Miost Recent Eati-ts between
l973 and 1975.
GNP pecr capita data ame based on world Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 heasis).
a.Japdn has been selected as an objective country since tho Braxilian Gwovemoent has shown particular interest tin Japan's development experience,
also the two governmnts have coniducted joint studies to identify possible future economic problems of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan.
BRACIL       1960     /a  economically active population.
1970     la  Ecomomically active population;           lb  Hiopital personnel;         /c  Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESIXTh          Ia  1976;        lb  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor forts;                  /c   1972;      /d  1971;
7 Inside only.
IMXICO       1970     /a  Tncluding assisatnt nurses;    lb  1.964-66;    /c  Inside only.
(IRUrIIAY    1970     /a  Montevideo only;    lb  1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
OwIRTrTTlcB 0? SOCIAL n0iCAT'7RS
Land Are. (thou lem2I                                                                            Population Par nursins personi - PopuLatimn divided by nu.mbar of practicing
total -Total surface ars  comprising land ares and inlad waters,                                    sale, and female graduate nurses, 'trained' or "cat tif iad" nurses, and
cn.-Moat recent estimate of agricultural are" used temporarily or peoma-                      stoiliary personnel with training o-aprins
nently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lia fellow.                         Population per hospital bed - Population divided by nomb.r of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specialized hospitel end
GCMP per capita ~3S$) - GNIP per capita estimates at currant market prices,                         rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homms and establisheetnt  for
calculated by ear  conversion method as World Benk Atlas (1973-75 basis);                        custodial and prevenative, care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                      Per capita ..pply of talonis. (7. of requirxaxents)' - Computed from  energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
?op,lation and vital statistic!                                                                    available supplise comprise domestic production, imports lass exports, and
P.p.iscion (old-year million)   Ac of July first,  if not avail,able, average                      changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal f.ad, seeds, quantities used
ot two, end-year estimates; I'-60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                           in food processing and losses in distribution; requirmeaenca were estimated
by FAO besed on phwysiological needs for normal activity and health cona id-
P .o.iltion de..sicy - par square km - Mid-year population per square kilomter                     ering e-viroutantel tamperature, body weights, age and it. distributions of
(100 hectarsa) of total are..                                                                    Population, and allowing 107. for waste at h,,ueehold level.
Population density - per square h,m of agric. land - Computed as abowe for                       Per capita supply of protein (ersue per day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                          net supply, of food per day; bm~ supply of food is defined as above; require-
mants for all countries eatabliahed by USDA 3conom.-c Rasssrch Servitas
Vital statistics                                                                                    provide fat a min4imam  llnsnce of 60 grant of tc'tal proteIn per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. averacts - Annual live births per thousand of                        20 graca of animal and pulse  protein, of which LO grins should be animal
mid-year population; tenL-year aricissatic averagea ending In 1960 sod 1970,                     protein; theme standards aes lower then those of 75 grows of totsl pr->tein
a-d five-y.sr average enLding in 1975 for mos t recent estimate,                                 and 23 grana of animal protein as son average for the world, proposed by PAO
Crude death rets per thoseand. avera&e - A'nnual deaths per thousand of mid-year                    in the Third World Pond Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averegew  ending in 1960 and 1970 end five-                    Per capita protein supply from  animal and Pc,Iae - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent astimate.                                            darived from  animals end pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortalitv rate (/thou)- Aanual deathe of infanta under one year of a-ge                   Death rate  (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annus1 deaths per thousand in age group 1-i
per thousand live births.                                                                        years, to children in this age group; sugg.st.d as an indicator of
Life ampetcasoy at birth (yes) -Average autbor of peers of life remainin  ae                        malnutrition.
birth;  -sullp five-ear avereg.s ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing coutries.                                                                                  Educetion
Cross reproduction roac  - cvwrage  mbher of live daughters a women sill bear                     Adlusted enrollnant ratio - primary school - Enrollmnt of all ege. as per-
in her normal reproductive pariod if she ex-periences present age-specific                       centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 yeers
fartility rat.e; usua,lly five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970 and 1975                       but adjusted for different lengths of primary education ; for countries with
for deve(oping countries.                                                                        universal educetin, enroillant nay "acoed 1001 since some pupils are below
PopuIliain 3trowt rate (7.) - total - Compound annual growth rat"e of mid-year                      or above the official school age.
p.puatoti.. for 1950-60. 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adlusted warollnwrnt ratio - secandary schosl - Comsputed as above; secondary
P.pulation grweth rate ('Y,) - urban - Coemputed like growth rate of total                          education requires at least four peas" of approned primary instruction:
7p.pl.tion; different definitions of urban area  may affect comparability of                     provides general, voeationsi or teacher training imstruoctions for pupils
dasc.s .morg countries,                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coursee are generally excluded.
Urban Population ('7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                   Years of schooling provided (first sod second levels) - Total years of
definitlona of urban areas may affect comparability of data anotg countries.                      schooling; at seco,xlsry level, vocational instruc tion may be partially or
completely sexcluded.
AR,n Stuc ture (porosot) - Children (0-14 years) , workimg-ege (15-64 years),                     Vocational enrollmgent il, of oscond.ry) - Vocational institutions  incluje
sod retired (h5 yeers and wasr) as percentages of mid-peer population,                            technical, industrial or other progream  which operata independently or as
Age dependency ratio - latis of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                        deaprtments of secoandary inscit.tio-s
of ogas 15 thtr.ugh 64.                                                                         Adult literacy rate (7.) - Lit-arct  adul:s  (abla to read and orltt) as par-
iconmic  epedenc  rato -Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to                     centage of total adult population aged 15 Years and wver.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Fonilv pl.nning - acceptors (cuXomlativO. thoul  - Cucaulative numhor of accaptors    I            ous ing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national. fmnily planning progrnm                    Perons per room  (urban) - Average number of parsons per roo  ift occupi.d
scsin-cpion,.                                                                                conventional dwellings in orhan areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
F-nily Planning - users ('7 of nmrri.d women) - Percentages, of married women, of                   trructursa and unoccupied parts.
chiid-hesriog  age (.15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married                  Occupied dwellings without pioed water (7)-Occupied conventional  dwellings
womn , sane age group.                                                                         in urban and rural areas without inside or outaide piped water facilities
55: percentage of all occupied dwellings.
toploynant                                                                                        Aces to slectricity (7. of al  delins   - Convetional dwellings with
'otal labor force (thousand) - Econoimically, active persona, including armed                       electricity in living quarters as Percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and unemployed but secluding housowives, students, etc. ; definitions                      rural aresa.
Ln various countries are not comparable.                                                       Rural dwelli.Rs conneted to electricity (7.  - Computed as  rove for mrurl
(.akor forte in agriculture  (l) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                  dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as Percentag. of total labor force.
Unsupioped (7. of labor fore.) - Unemplyal'd are uaaIly defined as persons who,                   Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, reamained out                  Radio receivers 'per thou poo) - All types of 'receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and mseking work for a specified minim,an period not exceeding one                      to general public per thousand of population ; excludes unlicensed  eceivers
week; may not be comparable hctwee, co,untries due to different definitions                       in countries and in years"when registration of radio sacs was in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office gtatiatics, gaple                       data for recent years may not be comparable since moat countries aholished
suvy,compu1eory unmployment insurance,                                                       licensing.
?asseng  rcar  (ser thou pop) - Passenger cosr  comprise motor cars seating
Incmoe distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                           mea than  ight Persons; excludes anbulancas, he.ares and military
received by richeet 57., richest 20O., poorest 207., and poorest 407. of h-,e-                    vehicles.
holds.                                                                                          Electricity (kwh/yr Per can) - Annual consumption of industrial. comarcial,
public end private electricity in kilowett hours per capita, genersLly
Distribution of leand ownership - Pero... tg.a of land  -cnd by wealthiest 107.                     ha...d on Production data, withou- loac   for Ibas..s in grids but allo--
end poorest 107. of land owners.                                                                  ing for imprts and exports  f electricity.
qealrh and Nutrition                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Newsprint (kgt/yr par cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
liesith ..d Nutri ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~stim     etvated from dom-etic production plos mat imports of newsprint.
Popuistire par phys ician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



as~~~~~~~~~~97                       9.             18
7092.1621 ACCOUNTS  9141428, 885 .0 1473 P,1,...s2  82102422  9288~ ~ ~~ --$                                  ..    ~      M191 
8.92454  -    ...,.  8,598           6.078            7,505            7,383             7.833           11,296            08,383         3.5          11.9        10,4            8.5          7.77 913,3110.0
214,2,2,01'0  (4.01          951            4,240            3,184            2,335~~~~~~~~~~~~.  910I8                             -273          .                                       12.5.5-0.2
17,347   20,944      10,501          ~~~~~~    ~~~11.43 2,8               835              2,1            7,311:        3,           .           823            2.:2.                        14.
1. 287424,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,                                                        931               NH1                                       :
1,102  0,073    4,008            3.444              3~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~           ~~~,95  35,224  13,7293  18,    2        170             5.          298            2.               318.
02727212232                 0,247           2,108             5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~",83  3,17-      32,8              5,8406          145,733        18,3         13.5        22.            348          25.            32.2            08.7
470              84              202             1,085               :1,92           0,3               5,41         5.           224           8I            7.I1.                      1.28.
0,382           078               1,07             ,4931924357                                         15,25          8.5         25.          251            15.4        24.2           28 5            37
17242                                ~~~      ~      ~~~       ~      ~~~       ~      ~~171 19  10599327                   8 350 35.                                 21.8         8.              ,6          357.                            .
72721                          8~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~,187  7,7541  0,219        10,130            12,938           28,922            43,088        17.8          16.         17.      0.0               233.3A         130.           130.1
04,2,224.22  17.3  17.1             17.3            14.7             10.4              14.4            12.1          5.4          6.3         5.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.1 117  z.
ML4 2,024104100                                                       8641             24            I 0                3871                747
1.  4422421824,4120.2         170              123              704              432~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.w  1 M2                       2,
2.  022225272,5229,624,       107             414               234             270~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  2.       .                  .1_                                                           i
0.  39080930  7342340084         1907-73          4724-74          0~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~7708  1721.05                                8.4       84872 .29900                         1970       185          99
2   223222 4222242,47      1.07            .0.03             0.46             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.33                             2.9 1,2   43029 14282       19            7.5         5.7        6.8
7   24224284 0.42 2221 0221082 6.42  0.21  0.13             0.07             0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~143                                       15288, :~l 1.)                     :
2.  0.922242422  72228  90                           032              017:             0.9              02                                                    34, 882.2 801.)2.                                    24        3.
51.5  12.~~~~  52.2       5~~.i            52:3             12.. ~~3.3.  7293172.                                    58.2        07        4
1.  0024224 722222.5     11.0             11.2             11.2             4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21.2 
1.1.  82492422422                       ~~~~      ~     ~~~~      ~      ~~10.4-  10.0-  10.5  191.4                                         .                                              9"        i95        M
1,  0222208 52727210402.            6.4             3,8~~~~~~~~~~~1.  1.              7.
3197           1774              1875
3.    49412244222  1.1          1.0               2.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.. -I                                                                2     4.7         4.
6.    04220                     24.0            86.0             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:2.4
72721~~~~~~~~~~: 022042.202      100               0.                4.
23  7842012 893 424 82824 4442180222422 of 80242272.                                                                                                                                         7978.1:
4/  782822. 1722~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02.1:
60 -20211                                                               -77  2-,4o2l  22202



SAAIMA    or IPAuuux  An                                                            AIM t
ACTUAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 PROJECTED190                                             11
A. S.-atary  fi BalInce of Payoents
I     Exports (tol.  F5)                                        6,596          8,471          9,255         10,657         15,583         15,464        17,374          20,232        46,766
2     Import. t incl  NFS)                                      7,577         1a,678         14,296         14,435         14,902         16,929         18,948        21,276         44,809
3.    R-oucce Balenc                                            - 961         4,207          .5,037        d3,778          -1,519         -1.35          -1,574         -1.043         1,937
4.                               74  Factor Servie  Incoe       _ 734          _ 9           .1,735         '2 288         -2,624         -3,051         -3,383         -3,791         -5,416
1. Bet Xotore.t P-ymat-a                                    _. 514          _ 652        -1,43           -1758         .2,159         -2.533         -2,910         -3.155         -4.336
2.  Direct InvesM nt Income                                  -198           - 248         - 235          - 380          - 415           - 468         - 523          - 386         -1,030
3. Other Factor Service Jen.o                               -  22              1 36       -  37          _150           -  50          -  50          -  50           -  50         -  50
5.    Current Teansfers (Net)                                      27              1            -                4             10             10             10             10             10
6.   Bels.ce ca Crrant Accoent                                 -1,688         -7,122         _6,772         .6,062         -3,933         4,407          -4,948         -4.825         -3.449
7.    Private Direct Ic-este-t                                    940            887            895          ol,ed          1,050          1,100          1,265          1,455          2,340
Medio sod Lo.g Tern Lo.se
a OfficisI Socr.es
8.    Dicburse.r-t.                                               562            979            856            768          1,024          1,234          1.404          1,535          2,722
9.    Amor_,,otio-                                               -217          - 191          - 273          - 384          - 367          - 391          - 488          - 597         -1,519
10.    Not licbureien"te                                           345            780            583            384            657            842            915            9S8          1,203
b. Private Sources
11.    Sinbur,oecota                                             3,993          6,080         5,974           7,388          5,218          6,354          7,416          7,370          9,215
12.    A-otioiatic                                              -1,455         -1,716         -1,868         -2,488         -2,992         -3,892         -4,649         -4,909         -7,024
13.    Not Ditborn-ec.ta                                         2,538          4,364         4,106           4,900          2,226          2,462          2,767          2,381          2,191
14.    Ue of IMF Rtetouroa                                         -                7            -              -              -              -              -              -              -
15.    Short-tens Cspitst *nd Cspit-l NEI                          424          - 123          - 142          1,961            255                                                         -
16.    Chlnig it Rnservee (- - toorosne>                        -2,559            953         1,046          -2,193           -255            -              -              -           -1.706
17.    ForeIgo Ech.nge Renerven                                  6,551          5,598         4,552           6,745          7,000          7,000          7,000          7,000         11,202
(End of Period)
B.  GIrnt ond Loon Coenitoentt
S     Tost1 MfT Lo..                                           4,770       . 7;034           6,946           8,697
1.1.  IBRl                                                        199            140            426            486
1.2.  IDB                                                          86            203            167            184
1.3   Govo-u-erte                                                 529            518            512          1,251
1.4   Supplior-                                                   857          1,088         1,376           1,300
1.3.  Orodc                                                        37             2S            -              139
1.6.  fico.. ii Credit.                                         3,146         5,103          4,515           6,076
C.  M-e-rd-,o itoec
1.     ract  rnact of Total Coicitool o                             2.5            2.5            2.5            2.5
2.    Average Icrroct (Pcroont)                                     8.8            9.5            9.5            9.4
3.    AV--c cU ltority (Yc--r)                                      7.2            9.0           9.9             8.3
3 0ry. 1978



- 26 -
a!                 ~~~~~ANNEXI
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHITNESS                            Page 5
1973            1974           1975           1976
A.  Mediusm-and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                       12,571          17,166         21,171         25,985
1.  Financial Credits            .                           7,848           11,211         14,561         18,194
2.  Others (Bil., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                  4,723            5,955          6,610          7 791
3.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                           6,496            8,533         11,461         14,852
4,  Private                                                  6,075            8,633          9,710         11,133
2.  Net Debt Service                                              2,186           2,572          3,583          4,668
1.  Total Interest                                             840           1,370           1,828          2,039
2.  Net Interest                                               514              652          1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                            --             1,287          1,550          1,990
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                           28.6            30.4           38.7           43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio b/                                  36.1            33.3           45.1           46.5
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                         --             15.2           16.7           18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio c/                                               19.4            24.7           35.0           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP d/                                           2.8             2.5            2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP d/                                        --              1.2            1.2            1.4
7.  Total DOD/GDP d/1                                                16.1           16.4            17.2          19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                   8.8           10.9            10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                       17.4           15.0           16.9           18.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (ind. NFS)                           60.2           48.1           47.1           56.5
2.  Eset Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                 27.0           25. 7          19.4           22.5
3.  Nf?t Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                44.9           52.6           41.3           39.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                      4.2            3.5            3.7            2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                5.1            5.1            5.2            4.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                3.2            3.3            2.6            2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                   Outstanding December 31, 1976
Amount                            Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                   1,217                                4.7
2,  Other Multilateral                                                       557                                2.1
3.  Governments                                                            2,862                               11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                              2,414                                9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                    289                                1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                     18,194                               70.0
7.  Other                                                                    452                                1.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                       25,985                              100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                                14,852                               57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                                 108.5
a/ Details of debt for end 1977 are not vet available- 1977 figures quoted in text are preliminary est=mareE.
b/  Including Net Direct Investment Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                                 'January 1978
--  Not Available



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-eight loans fully disbursed                               1,091.9
677   1977  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas        Power               80.0           3.3
Marimbondo
728   1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sol          Power               70.0           4.3
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755   1971  Brazil                             Education            8.4           1.3
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0          19.6
786   1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            46.0           4.9
797   1972  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               64.5            .3
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry            64.5           1.9
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power               60.0             .4
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement      6.7           4.4
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0          59.7
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       54.0          32.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          42.6
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco         Water Supply        36.0          10.2
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          22.6
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0          60.2
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          65.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          92.2
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          57.9
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0          18.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          54.7
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0           11.4



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1206   1976  Brazil                           Develop. Bank        85.0             78.9
1207   1976  Brazil                           Feeder Roads         55.0             55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                           Agriculture          40.0             39.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           50.0             39.1
1257   1976  Companhia Paraense de            Power                52.0             48.0
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300   1976  Eletrobras                       Power                50.0             48.6
1302   1976  Brazil                           Nutrition            19.0             18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0             37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                           Agro. Industry       83.0             83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                82.0             72.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Develop.       42.0             39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0             62.2
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer           82.0             76.4
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/1 1977  Brazil                           Education            32.0            32.0
1488/2 1977  Brazil                           Rural Develop.       17.0             17.0
Total                                             3,199.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                444.1
Total now outstanding                             2,755.4
Amount sold                           45.6
of which has been repaid            28.6           17.0
Total now held by Bank                            2,738.4
Total undisbursed                                                 1,315.2
/1   Became effective on April 5, 1978.
/2   Became effective on March 28, 1978.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, a loan of $110 million
was approved on February 28, 1978 and signed on March 10, 1978, and two loans
totalling $154 million were approved by the Executive Directors on March 28,
1978.



-29 -                                    ANNfl 2I
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IF0 INVESIENTS (As of February 28, 197Y)
Fiscal Year                             Obligor                                       Type of Business                                            Amounc in 06$ million
Loans    Esuity   -Total
1957            Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                            Electrical Equlpsont                                       2.00       -        2.00
1958            Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papal                                  Pulp and Paper                                              1.20      -        1.20
1958            D.L.R. Plasticos do Bmail, S.A.                                   Autostiva Parts j                                           0.45      -        0.45
1958            Willyo-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Induatris a Cotercir                                           Motor Vehicles                                              2.45      -        2.45
1959            Cotpanhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                       Cement                                                     1.20       -        1.20
1959            Chaopion Celulose., S.A.                                          Pulp                                                       4.00       -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972            Acos Villares, S.A.                                               Steel                                                       8.00     1.93      9.93
1966/1969       Papel e Celuloae Ctarinense, S.A.                                 Pulp and Paper                                              3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972       Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Cot,ercio
do Fertilioa-tes                                               Pertilizers                                                8.22      3.03    11.25
1969            Petroquiica Uniao., S.A.                                          Petrochemicale                                              5.50     2.88      8.38
1970            Poliolefinae, S.A. Industria e Cotercio                           Petrochemicals                                             5.50      2.88      8.38
1971            Oxiteno, S.A. Indusirti  e  Conercio                              Petrochemicals                                             4.60      1.44      6.04
1971            Industria do Colulose Sorregaard, S.A.                            Pulp                                                       4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975       Coopanhie de Cimento Nacional de Minas                            Cement                                                    29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Cotpanhia Siderurgics da Guanabara - COSIGUA                      Steel                                                     76.96      7.50    b4.46
1973            Capital Market Development Fund - FUHCAP                          Capital Market Development                                 5.00       -        5.00
1973            Etpresa de Dssenvolvinento do Recuroos
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                       Nickel Mining mid Refining                                26.00      4.40    30.40
1974            Industrias Villares, S.A.                                         Elevatorh and Ilduatrial Equipment                         6.00       -        6.00
1974            Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                                  Textiles                                                  31.00       -       31.00
1975            Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                                 Carbon Plaeck                                              6.18      1.08      7.26
1975            Oxiteso Nordeste, S.A.                                            Petrochemicals                                            10.00       -       10.00
1976            Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                     Textiles                                                   6.45      1.00      7.45
1976            Tec.noc S.A. - Teatil Catacinenee do Nordeste                     Testiles       -                                           6.00       -        6.00
1977            FMB S. A. Prodoctos Metalurgi-o                                   Iron and Alomirom Castings                                20.00       -       20.00
1977             Mineracao Rio do Norte p.A.                                      Mining                                                    15.00              T5Iy.OO
1978            Citetal Siderurgia S.A.                                           Iron and Steel                                             7,0        3,0     10.0
Total Groas Cossito.. to                                                                                                  296.53      35.75   332.28
.Less Cancellations, Terminations, RepaYtants and Sales                                                                   194.91       8.43   203.34
Total Commitments Now Meld by IFC                                                                                         101.62      27.32   128.94
Total Undisbursed                                                                                                          28.13       3.08    31.21



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 36 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978. Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments on equipment contracts are being made now and are
expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$862
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete but is about 24 months behind
the original schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and new towns to
house the urban portion of the population have been constructed.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of Lhe State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses are being resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 12 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Eff'ective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be coimpleted by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with t]he main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in the first nine months of
1977, further improvement is necessary for it to be able to effec-
tively carry out its investment program. The Government recently
decided to deregulate most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978,
it will make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services which it wishes to remain in operation. These actions
should significantly improve the borrower's financial position.



34                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31. 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4. 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic justif-
ication of the project and its financial implications is presently
being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains in the
project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1980, and postponement of the closing date may be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in
the design of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by
CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting further cost
increases. Project implementation has encountered certain opposi-
tion from the population of the project area, which disagreed with
the principles and procedures for land expropriation, settlement,
future land tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative
system. The implementing agency CODEVASF is revising the social
strategy to be followed under the project by improving communication
and relations with the area population.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Proiect (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve PEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has improved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, the
state government will make payments to the railways to meet deficits
on uneconomic services which it wishes to remain in operation.
These actions should assist in significantly improving FEPASA's
financial position.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Me!ans of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource constraints of
the National Development Bank (BNDE). Measures to accelerate
commitment of the loan are under study.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing more satisfactorily if still rather slowly.
Three sub-loans totalling US$12.6 million of Bank financing have
been approved and two more are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at the 21 stations. Facilities and research
programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority regions
(North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in accordance
with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project goals.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
due to initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and technical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project. The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved sub-loans
for 75 projects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 14 projects
in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and 3 projects in
cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. Several additional sub-
projects are being reviewed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13. 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as part of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule. Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1488      CEARA Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
September 13, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 38 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately 23 months
(from December 1975 to November 1977)
(b) Project prepared by: DNER, DER-PR., consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank: December 1975
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1977
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 17, 1978
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: August 11, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Establishment of US$2 million equivalent revolving fund by DNER
(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 55).
(b) DNER to strengthen the staff of the Maintenance Directorate
(Condition of Disbursement for highway rehabilitation program,
para. 42).
(c) DNER-DER Subsidiary Agreement to be executed and ratified; Govern-
ment to reorganize DER-PR's Maintenance Directorate; and registra-
tion with the Central Bank of consultant's contracts, if legally
required (Conditions of Disbursement for highway maintenance program,
paras. 44-45).
(d) The State of Parana to allocate sufficient funds to DER-PR for
maintenance of the highways delegated to it by DNER, and to
exchange views annually with the Bank on the amount of funds
required for this purpose (para. 47).
(e) The Government to institute a monitoring system, acceptable to
the Bank, to review the effectiveness of the weight enforcement
program (para. 49).



- 39                              ANNEX III
Page 2
(f)  DNER to consult with the Bank on the results of the highway
design study and to incorporation into DNER's design norms and
manuals (para. 52).
(g) DNER to exchange views annually with the Bank on its proposed
financial plan for the next year (para. 34).
(h)  DNER to develop and adopt, by May 1, 1979, methods for deter-
mining adequate maintenance levels; methods for cost accounting;
and funding procedures for maintaining federal highways; all
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 38).
(i)  DNER to develop annual and pluriannual programs for pavement
overlays and rehabilitation of federal highways, and annually
exchange views with the Bank about them (para 38).






k                                                                                                                                    3rC>>y  Srr DCt_ w
ENE Z U E LA 
C~~~~~~ OF         ORg  .AtiR E N cH ,AI/oz    2(  
S                      /     ( GUAN   I A      
CCLOMBiA                       RORAIMA                \ 5~IA
S    K                CLY~~~GIANA        /A/tc                                                 %o
tf\X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A M A RE N A                                                                                                                   NDE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A ~~   10 GRMiA =->
11A jb R   A                                                                ----- ------ L----

K                                        '   \~ ,                                                   -4-
PP  r t     ef"                  R U                            G7, Ul )A                         s                              7
J-.1~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
CHt .I L E                          PAR             K 
I>~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~        ~ ~~~~~~ 7'         -r fU
GRANDE~~~~~~~~~1 CAD
\W   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                                                    /    A~~~~~URJGA



