CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1557 BR
Project Agreement
(Sixth Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PARANA
Dated May 8, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1557 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
the State of Parana (hereinafter called the State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and fourteen million dollars ($114,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the State agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the State, a portion of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
the State's Highway Department on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever( used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The State shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿- 2 -
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the State in carrying
out Part B of the Project, the State shall employ engineering
and management consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions set
forth in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) the State undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for Lhe insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the State to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the State
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) the State shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contracts documents and work and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The State: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the -Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank


﻿- 3 -
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The State shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plant, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the State and any records and documents
related to the Project.
Section 2.06. The State shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the State shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by the State of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Highway Administration and Maintenance
Section 3.01. The State shall take appropriate measures to
ensure that the provisions of the Borrower's Decreto-Lei No. 117
of January 31, 1967, regarding the limitation of the size and
weight of vehicles using the state highway networks located in the
territories of the State are fully enforced.
Section 3.02. The State shall cause to be adequately main-
tained:
(a) the highways included in its state highway network; and
(b) the highways included in the federal highway network
located in its territories, the maintenance of which (A) has been
delegated to the State by DNER, or (B) may be delegated to the
State pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.09 of the Loan


﻿Agreement; and shall cause all necessary repairs, strengthening
and rehabilitation of the highways referred to under (a) and (b)
above to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practice. The State shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose, and shall exchange views
annually with the Bank on the amount of funds required to maintain
adequately the highways under its jurisdiction.
Section 3.03. The State shall take all necessary measures to
ensure that the reorganization of DER-PR's Maintenance Directorate
is put into effect not later than January 31, 1979.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 5-
For the State of Parana:
The Director General
Departamento de Estradas
de Rodagem
Curitiba, Parana
Brazil
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the State, may be taken or executed by
the Director General DER-PR or such other person or persons as
the Director General DER-PR shall designate in writing, and
thqirector General DER-PR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evideice of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF PARANA
By /s/ Elcio Costa Couto
Authorized Representative


