                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 27428-RO

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (SCL-43190)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                         TO THE

  GENERAL INSPECTORATE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY,
                                       ROMANIA

                                         FOR A

        TELECOMMUNICATIONS REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT




                                       March 9, 2004




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 5, 2003)

                         Currency Unit = Lei
                              1000 Lei = US$ 0.03
                                US$ 1 = 33,213 Lei

                               FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 to   December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EBRD       -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB        -      European Investment Bank
EU         -      European Union
GICIT      -      General Inspectorate of Communications and Information Technology
GOR        -      Government of Romania
ICB        -      International Competitive Bidding
ITU        -      International Telecommunications Union
MOCIT-     Ministry of Communications and Information Technology
NRAC       -      National Regulatory Agency for Communications
NSMS       -      National Spectrum Managament System
SEMOS      -      Spectrum Engineering and Management Operation Support
USAID      -      United States Agency for International Development
WTO        -      World Trade Organization




                       Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director     Anand K. Seth
                       Sector Manager     Henk Busz
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Varadarajan Atur

                                          ROMANIA
TELECOMMUNICATION REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P008788                                                  Project Name: TELECOMMUNICATION
Team Leader: Varadarajan Atur                                        TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: TELECOMMUNICATION                                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-43190
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1992                                     Effective: 09/29/1998                09/21/1998
     Appraisal: 01/21/1997                                         MTR: 09/30/2000                  07/27/2001
      Approval: 04/28/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GENERAL INSPECTORAT OF COMMUNICATIONS/GENERAL
                                           INSPECTORAT OF COMMUNICATIONS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Kenneth Lay
Sector Manager:                 Henk Busz                                      Franco Batzella
Team Leader at ICR:             Varadarajan Atur                               Varadarajan Atur
ICR Primary Author:             Elliott Hurwitz; David Satola;
                                Varadarajan Atur


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Introduction

Starting in 1996, the Government of Romania (GOR) began to take major steps to liberalize and
reform its telecom sector, licensing a number of private firms to provide mobile telephone service.
It broadened these actions by its commitments to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the
European Union (EU), the latter in the context of preparing for EU accession in 2007, that would
further reform the sector. The Telecommunications Reform and Privatization Support Project
(TRPSP) was designed to support and facilitate the Government's program of telecom reform.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the TRPSP were: (a) to assist Romania in reforming the telecom sector,
including privatization of existing public sector telecom facilities; (b) to provide the necessary
infrastructure to enable GICIT to maximize the productive use of the radio frequency spectrum
and to improve frequency assignment criteria for further expansion of wireless communications
services provision by the private sector; and (c) to support GICIT in performing regulatory
functions over all networks and services in the telecom sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components:

1. Sector Reform (SAR cost US$1.8 million):
        a) Development of policy, legal and regulatory frameworks:

        Policy Framework: Further develop and support the basic policy framework, building on
        Romania's agreement with the WTO and to ensure consistency with the EU acquis
        communitaire. The effort was intended to focus on such key areas as industry structure,
        competition policy, ownership policy, pricing policy, regulatory policy, and the extent to
        which existing entities could participate in various service areas.
        Legal Framework: Provide legal underpinning for transparent regulation and the chosen
        policy alternatives.
        Regulatory Framework: Strengthen technical regulation (quality of service, type
        approval of equipment, frequency spectrum management) and economic regulation
        (prices, license fees).

        b) Privatization of Rom Telecom

2. Regulatory Agency Development (SAR cost US$34.2 million)
This component focused on the initial concept of strengthening the General Inspectorate of
Communications (GIC) (later organized into the General Directorate of Communications and
Information Technology, GICIT) as the single regulatory body for the telecom sector, including
modernization of its infrastructure for radio spectrum management and monitoring. A program
was designed and implemented under the TRPSP, consistent with the overall sector policy


                                                 - 2 -

framework, with the following governing principles:

        a) Independence of GICIT from both entities which would be regulated and policy
            makers;
        b) Structure to define the legal, organizational and administrative arrangements under
            which GICIT function as an independent body;
        c) Autonomy, consisting of both operational autonomy (e.g. appointment of regulators
            on a transparent basis and meeting minimum qualifications) and financial autonomy
            (e.g. independence from the national budget and financing of GICIT from regulatory
            services);
        d) Area of Responsibility defining GICIT's purview of regulation as well as the necessary
            instruments (e.g. economic regulation, technical regulation, interconnection regulation,
            service quality regulation, monopoly operator regulation, promotion of competition,
            spectrum assignment and licensing, etc.)

It was also envisioned that the TRPSP would develop a National Spectrum Management System
(NSMS)--a complete spectrum management system--with three main subcomponents:

        a) Installation of hardware and operating system software. This was to be achieved by
            GICIT, and operated on twin, redundant servers.
        b) Installation of application software for the Radio Frequency Spectrum Management
            System. This would enable the authorities to assure that allocation of frequencies
            would be done in accordance with International Telecommunications Union (ITU)
            guidelines, and would also be used to evaluate new applications for potential
            interference with existing services, and compliance with national regulations and
            cross-border frequency coordination. It would further have functionality for
            administrative and financial uses.
        c) Frequency monitoring system. To ensure efficiency and functionality, a system needs
            to be periodically checked to assure that transmissions are in conformance with their
            allocations and consistent with the provisions of their license and to assess the actual
            occupancy of the radio frequency spectrum. For this purpose, the program provided
            for the purchase of 22 fixed monitoring stations, 10 mobile stations, 15 transportable
            stations, 1 high-frequency station, and enabling software.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The TRPSP was specifically cited in the 1997 CAS, where it
directly addressed the CAS objective of "providing needed infrastructure and increase private
sector role in the telecom sector." The project emerged from a close collaboration between the
Bank and the government, which was keen to privatize Rom Telecom and thereby gain
privatization revenues and at the same time mobilize private capital in modernizing the sector. The
National Spectrum Management System (NSMS) was essential to upgrade the country's
rudimentary spectrum management and monitoring capabilities at a time when expanded use of
the spectrum was envisioned. The original project concept in 1992 involved investment financing


                                                 - 3 -

support to expand Rom Telecom's fixed telephone network, but since such financing became
available from EIB and EBRD, the Bank's project preparation activities were suspended for some
time, and eventually evolved into a technical assistance project. The TRPSP thus was comprised
of an appropriate mix of policy and investment components sufficient to facilitate the fundamental
transformation and modernization of the sector. A strength of the project design was the
provision for an international consultant to provide full-time on-site technical management for the
NSMS. A 1999 QAG Rapid Supervision Report stated that the project design was sound, the
project was fully ready for implementation at approval, and that Borrower commitment was
strong.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Introduction and Overview

Recognizing that most major relevant objectives were achieved, albeit with some shortcomings &
delays, the TRPSP outcome is rated as satisfactory on balance. Significant positive outcomes
include:

    · Rom Telecom was privatized, with 35% of its shares sold in 1998, and an additional 19%
    in 2002
    · The number of wireless subscribers rose from 640,000 in 1998 to around 6.4 million in
    2003, a ten-fold increase over 5 years (see figure 3). This provided effective competition for
    fixed wire telephony, improved service for millions of users, and introduced new services
    · The market for voice telephony was liberalized on schedule on January 1, 2003 in
    accordance with both EU and WTO commitments, which permitted access to numerous new
    entrants
    · Comprehensive EU-compliant telecom legislation was enacted which provided the basis
    for provisionally closing Chapter 19 of the acquis communitaire, in November, 2002.
    Romania thereby became the first country (including existing EU members) to meet the new
    EU requirements.
    · A competent and independent regulatory agency, the National Regulatory Agency for
    Communications (NRAC) in advance of liberalization. The agency is also financially
    independent, funded by a tax on 0.2% on the revenues of operators.

Not all of these outcomes are directly attributable to the TRPSP. However, this ICR argues that
the TRPSP either achieved, or was a significant facilitating factor, in these highly positive
outcomes, and that consequently the benefits achieved by the TRPSP considerably outweigh its
shortcomings (see discussion of attribution at the end of section 4.1).

Regulatory Structure: It is important to note that while the Bank recommended that the GoR
establish a single regulator, the GoR eventually established a framework involving two regulatory
agencies, GICIT and NRAC. The original concept is depicted in Figure 1, below, while that
which was eventually implemented is shown in Figure 2. This arrangement is discussed in more
detail in the next paragraph.




                                                - 4 -

                                                                Figure 1:
                                                     Regulatory Structure as
                                                         Conceived in SAR

                                                                                          GOR
                                                                                      Prime Ministry
                                                                                         Cabinet




                                                  GIC
                                          ·Economic/                                    Ministry
                                          competition regulation                    of Communications
                                          ·Licensing
                                          ·Technical regulation
                                          (frequency monitoring,
                                          etc)




                                              Operating companies




                                                                    Figure 2:
                                                         Regulatory Architecture
                                                                as Implemented

                                                                          GOR
                                                                     Prime Ministry
                                                                         Cabinet




                                                                Ministry of Communications
                                                                and Information Technology
                                                                ·Spectrum and numbering policy
                                                                ·Licensing of spectrum usage




                  NRAC                                            GICIT
                  ·Economic/competition regulation                ·Technical Regulation
                  ·Manage authorization process                   ·Monitor spectrum
                  ·Additional licensing functions                 ·Assign frequencies for non-
                                                                  governmental use




                                           Operating Companies




The TRPSP originally envisioned that the single regulator would be the General Inspectorate of
Communications (GIC), the predecessor of GICIT, an arrangement agreed between the GoR and
the Bank. However, the subsequent government was less committed to this arrangement than its
predecessor, and after an intermediary stage, it decided on the following allocation of
responsibilities:



                                                                          - 5 -

    · MoCIT: responsible for policy development and implementation (with the exception of
        some residual regulatory functions noted below)
    · NRAC: responsible for administering the regulatory regime, as well as economic and
        competition aspects of regulation
    · GICIT: responsible for spectrum management, including assignment of frequencies to
        nongovernmental spectrum users, and spectrum monitoring

After careful consideration, the Bank decided that this was an acceptable arrangement. In
assessing the current structure it should be recognized that what is critical to the regulatory
function is that the regulator can perform its functions independently from the Ministry and from
the system operators, and has financial autonomy. Romania has largely achieved this status, and
has received international recognition of this achievement. In November, 2002, in provisionally
closing Chapter 19 of the acquis communitaire, the EU signaled that it did not have concerns
over Romania's regulatory scheme, provided that the residual issue of ownership and regulation
within the same agency is dealt with prior to accession (see next paragraph). The June, 2003,
IBM report states (p. 103): "NRAC is an independent entity with regard to structure, operations,
and financing." (see section 10 for full report citation)

However, there is a residual issue. While NRAC presently handles the majority of regulatory
functions, MoCIT still has responsibility for frequency allocation. At the same time, MoCIT still
owns 46% of Rom Telecom and other telecom infrastructure assets including National
Radiocommunications Company (Rom Radiocom). The GoR has agreed to review its regulatory
structure prior to its prospective entry into the EU in 2007, and resolve this remaining issue.
When this is completed, Romania's regulatory framework will be completely consistent with EU
requirements and international good practice.1 In utilizing two regulatory agencies, the GoR was
following the practice extant at that time of such countries as the United Kingdom, which also
had two agencies performing these functions. However, the UK is a mature market economy,
with established institutions for dispute resolution, including independent judiciary, and recent
legislation in the UK (adopted subsequent to the adoption of the legal framework in Romania) has
now largely abandoned this bifurcated institutional structure.

Achievement of Specific Objectives

Objective (a): Assist Romania in reforming the telecom sector, including privatization of existing
public sector telecom facilities.

The Transformation of Romania's Telecom Sector

During the period of the TRPSP, the Romanian telecom sector was not so much reformed as
transformed, with explosive growth in mobile services, complete decontrol of the sector, and
improvement in nearly all indicators of the breadth, quality, and efficiency of service.
Achievement of objective (a) was highly satisfactory.

As noted earlier, Rom Telecom is now private; OTE of Greece purchased 35% of its shares in



                                                  - 6 -

1998, and a further 19% in 2002. The remaining 46% is owned by MoCIT. The company has
made progress in service quality, productivity, and penetration (described below).

In accordance with its WTO obligations, on January 1, 2003, Romania completely liberalized the
telecom sector, removing Rom Telecom's remaining exclusive rights to offer voice telephony and
leased wire services, and implemented a simplified procedure to permit new operators to enter the
market. To start a telecom business, a firm need only notify the regulator, NRAC, which then
acknowledges that notification has been received, and the required data provided. In the case of
wireless, the new entrant may then apply to GICIT to be assigned part of the spectrum.

Fixed Line Service: Rom Telecom is still the predominant provider of fixed line service, with 97%
of this service. However, 2 new fixed line operators are in an advanced stage of preparation and
are expected to begin offering service in December, 2003. In addition, the electric transmission
utility and the railway--both state-owned--have formed subsidiaries to offer telecom services and
both have recently installed advanced fiber optic telecom networks along their rights of way. The
electric transmission company upgraded its 8,700 km telecom network (by comparison, Rom
Telecom has an fiber optic network of 11,000 km) with the assistance of a loan from the EIB and
EBRD (the total loan for upgrading all infrastructure was US$175 million); the firm has now
received a grant of US$186,000 from USTDA to delineate the characteristics of the telecom
services it can best offer using its network. The railway has interconnected its 3,600 km telecom
network with Hungary, and will be interconnected with Bulgaria and Turkey starting in January,
2004. The railway is currently selling telecom services to a large number of business
customers--mostly suppliers, affiliates, and other transportation companies--and is also selling
video conferencing services to two affiliates. The railway telecom network was recently upgraded
with the support of a US$30.5 million loan from the World Bank (the Bank's overall Railway
Rehabilitation Project was US$195 million, with EBRD and PHARE contributing additional
funding).

Mobile Service: The number of mobile telephones increased approximately ten-fold from 1998 to
2003, as shown in Figure 3, and mobile service became a serious competitor for fixed line carriers.
At the time of the ICR mission the mobile subsector consisted of two GSM carriers that held
around 96% of the market, one additional GSM carrier in bankruptcy (a Rom Telecom
subsidiary), and a CDMA carrier that began operations in 2001 and is growing quickly. The
mobile sector is very dynamic; one of the two large carriers reported that it was gaining more than
100,000 new customers per month.

The commercial boom of mobile systems in Romania went far beyond the most optimistic
predictions. For example, the SAR (1998) predicted that there would be 1.2 million mobile
phones by 2008. This dramatic expansion in the use of the spectrum made upgrading the NSMS
much more critical, and a number of participants in the market observed that without the
enhancement in frequency monitoring made possible by implementation of the NSMS--even
though the capacity developed was less than envisioned--wireless expansion could not have
proceeded as rapidly as it did.

The large wireless firms also offer a package of services to medium and large businesses that



                                                - 7 -

includes digital transmission of all of their traffic--voice, fax, and data--both within and outside
the country. Customers for such a package would have a microwave antenna installed on a
company building, and then route all of their transmissions through the wireless firm's network.

                       Figure 3: Number of Mobile Telephones, 1998-2003


                       Number of Mobile Telephones, 1998-2003, in
                                                  000s

              7000

              6000

              5000

              4000

              3000

              2000

              1000

                   0
                        1998        1999        2000       2001       2002    2003 (est,
                                                                                11/03)

                    Source: GICIT (1998-2002), project staff estimate (11/03)

While there were approximately 6,400,000 mobile phones in use in November, 2003, because
some individuals have more than one mobile phone, the number of mobile phone users was lower.
In discussions with management of the large mobile carriers, regulators, and government officials,
a consensus estimate of around 5,600,000 mobile users emerged. Thus the mobile penetration
rate was around 25%, dramatically higher than the past few years, but still the lowest of 13 EU
candidate countries (IBM report, p. 45). From 16% in 1998, the penetration rate of fixed line
telephones rose modestly to 19.4% in 2002, also the lowest of the EU candidates. Market
participants expect mobile penetration to continue to increase--although the rate of increase will
slow--thus narrowing the gap between Romania and other EU candidates.

Additional Indicators of Telecom Sector Progress: Additional data reflecting change in the
telecom sector include:

    · The average call completion rate for fixed line service rose from 50% in 1998 to 90% in
    2003
    · Rom Telecom reduced the number of its employees from 50,000 in 1998 to 23,500 in
    2003
    · The waiting list for fixed line installation decreased from 0.97 million customers in 1998 to
    0.54 million in 2002
    · The number of households receiving cable TV service rose from 2.4 million in 1998 to 3.3



                                                   - 8 -

    million in 2002, while the proportion of "households passed" reached 4.1 million, or nearly
    80% of all households
    · The number of cable channels offered in 2003 was: urban areas, 35 (standard service) and
    50 (premium service); rural areas, 16
    · There are now more than 200 internet service providers. The proportion of the population
    using the internet increased from a very low figure in 1998 to 14% in 2003
    · With the deregulation of voice telephony in January, 2003, the price of international calls
    began to fall substantially; by November, 2003, it was estimated that the average decrease was
    around 35 to 40%, compared with the same period last year, although some new operators
    offered prices as much as 80% lower
    · In addition, starting in 2003, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service began to be
    offered at a large number of establishments, with charges for international calls reported to be
    5 US cents or less per minute
    · Mobile service coverage includes areas where approximately 90% of the population lives
    (but 70% of the land area of the country)
    · The number of pay telephones in the country grew from 42,000 at the end of 2001 to over
    51,000 at the end of 2002
    · An updated National Frequency Register was issued in 1999, 2001, and again in 2003
    (extended to 275 GHz), to make it more consistent with the European Common Allocation
    Table.
    · Although data were not available, interviews with operators and regulators indicated that
    interference was not a significant problem, and did not impede their operations

It should be noted that Rom Radiocom remained state-owned despite extensive efforts to divest
it. This firm owns substantial microwave network infrastructure, used mainly for the radio and
television broadcast subsector. While the privatization of the firm was not an explicit objective of
TRPSP, a privatized National Radiocommunications Company might be in a position to offer
significant competition to Rom Telecom in the fixed wire area.

Objective (b): (NSMS) Provide the necessary infrastructure to enable GICIT to maximize the
productive use of the radio frequency spectrum and to improve frequency assignment criteria for
further expansion of wireless communications services provision by the private sector

Most of the main components of the NSMS have been installed and are operational, and as
described below, are producing important benefits. However, deficiencies in system
performance--still being addressed by the contractor at the time of the ICR mission--result in a
rating of objective (b) (the NSMS) as unsatisfactory.

The GICIT computer system was delivered and began operation in 1999 with 2 servers and 4
regional offices linked to headquarters via leased lines. The initial functionality was in office
automation, which improved agency operational efficiency and customer service. Subsequently
the NSMS software was installed and in 2001 the system began use as intended, for compliance
monitoring, location of illegal radio activity, and spectrum occupancy measurement (though with
lower performance than anticipated). To date, the NSMS has detected many cases of illegal
frequency use. Deployment of the system is summarized in Table 1, below.



                                                  - 9 -

However, system operation is not as efficient or effective as intended. While the receivers are
functioning acceptably in most respects, testing by GICIT determined that they were producing an
unacceptable rate of false positive signals, i.e., indicating that a problem is present when it is not.
This necessitates more work by the system operator, and the contractor has agreed to replace the
existing receivers with upgraded ones in the spring of 2004. Also, the financial management and
administrative modules of the system are not yet in use. Finally, while the individual parts of the
system are working as described above, the system as a whole has not been operated or tested.
The effectiveness of the parts of the NSMS that are currently in use is estimated to be around
30% of the efficiency and effectiveness that can be achieved with the fully functional NSMS.
While these shortcomings are likely to be remedied within the next 6-9 months, until this has been
accomplished, NSMS cannot be regarded as satisfactory.

              Table 1: Main Components and Status of Radio Monitoring System
                     Item                     Contract             Delivered            Installed and
                                              Quantity                                   operational*
                 Fixed stations                    22                   22                     22
                Mobile stations                    10                   10                     10
           Transportable stations                  15                   15                     15
                  HF station**                      1                    1                      0
             NSMS application                       1                    1                      1
                   software
        *As explained in the text, individual monitoring stations are operational, but functioning at a lower level
        of efficiency than required in the contract. Also, the NSMS is not yet operating as an integrated system.
        **The government has encountered zoning issues on the land intended for this station.

Difficulties and delays were encountered throughout the design and implementation of NSMS.
First, during the post-effectiveness design review, GICIT negotiated more than 30 design changes
with the contractor. The Bank reviewed these, and found that in many cases they were
unnecessary and overly complex, and raised technical risk. The Bank stated that it would not
finance them, however, GICIT decided to go ahead and finance them with their own funds. The
process of introducing design changes, and the attendant Bank review, caused a delay of around 7
months. Second, after some components had been delivered and others were being manufactured,
the contractor had a fire (March, 2000), which damaged components in the plant and caused a
second major delay to manufacture and recondition monitoring system components. Testing
following delivery established that both components that had been delivered before the fire and
those that had been repaired were substandard and unreliable. Consequently, many components
were completely replaced with new models, which introduced more delay and some software
incompatibilities.

The delays in bringing NSMS to a fully satisfactory status were serious, and delayed and
diminished the flow of benefits the system was intended to provide. Part of the responsibility for
the delay lay with GICIT, which did not take full advantage of the on-site presence of a technical
consultant funded by the TRPSP to assist GICIT in implementing NSMS. Reorganization of
GICIT and personnel turbulence within the agency, as well as inconsistent support from the



                                                       - 10 -

government, were also important factors in GICIT's performance. Additional responsibility lies
with the system contractor which--beyond the force majeure circumstances of the fire in their
facility--continued to provide faulty components. Efforts by GICIT to work with the contractor
to obtain satisfactory components distracted the agency from other important responsibilities.

In large measure as a result of delays in bringing NSMS on line, several private firms utilizing the
spectrum developed, at their own expense, some functionalities that NSMS was not yet providing,
i.e., ensuring that there was little or no interference on the frequencies on which they operated.
While it was unfortunate that this effort was necessary, these actions demonstrated the importance
of avoiding interference to these operators and confirmed the value of the NSMS component of
the project.

Even though the performance of the NSMS is rated unsatisfactory, the system is producing
substantial benefits (Table 2 below). As noted, the NSMS has detected a significant number of
cases of illegal spectrum use, and appropriate actions were initiated. Even at its current level of
functioning, the NSMS can monitor the spectrum and provide other services much more
efficiently and effectively than the manual systems it replaced; spectrum monitoring prior to
initiation of NSMS was rudimentary. GICIT has been validating the existing license database
against actual use, identified unoccupied frequencies, and thereby enable services growth in
crowded frequency bands. GICIT has also verified that proposals for usage conform to protocols
for cross-border frequency coordination. Considering the explosive growth in the use of the
spectrum from 1998 to the present, a number of service operators and regulators interviewed
stated that they did not believe that an acceptable level of quality could have been maintained
using the antiquated pre-NSMS systems and practices.

                                  Table 2: Utilization of NSMS (2002)
1. Number of times NSMS utilized in license authorization                        5,936
2. Number of times NSMS utilized in assignment of frequency                      1,240
band:
      of which: Number of times NSMS utilized in detecting                        178
frequency interference
3. Number of times NSMS utilized in application processing                       6,206
4. Number of times NSMS utilized in identifying sources of                        131
interference
5. Number of times NSMS utilized in monitoring compliance                        3,850
with license authorization
Source: GICIT

Objective (c) Support GICIT in performing regulatory functions over all networks and services in
the telecom sector.

TRPSP assistance to the three agencies involved with sector regulation was significant, although
not as extensive as envisioned because of changes in the regulatory structure and the availability
of grant-funded support from other donors. Achievement of objective (c) is assessed as
satisfactory.




                                                   - 11 -

As noted earlier, after a delay, the government adopted a regulatory structure in which NRAC
holds principal responsibility for economic regulation, competition concerns, and administration of
the regulatory regime, MoCIT is responsible for policy development and implementation, and
certain residual regulatory functions, while GICIT is principally charged with technical
responsibilities. Consequently, Bank assistance related to regulatory matters was redirected from
GICIT to NRAC and MoCIT.

TRPSP provided critical support to MoCIT and NRAC for development of an EU-compliant legal
framework--the Framework Law and others--later modified and approved by the Parliament,
which established (1) the legal framework for the sector; and (2) conditions of access to public
communications networks and interconnection between these networks. This provided the basis
for provisionally closing Chapter 19 of the acquis communitaire, which Romania achieved in
November, 2002, thereby becoming the first country (including existing EU members) to meet the
new EU requirements. It should be emphasized that once the issue of the sector's regulatory
structure was clarified, the Bank moved quickly to provide support in drafting and refining the
law that permitted NRAC to be created and start operations in September, 2002, only 3 months
before deregulation.

After NRAC began operations, the GoR preferred to use grant funding from USAID (and later
the EU), rather than TRPSP funds, to strengthen agency capacity. USAID provided considerable
training to NRAC (and to a lesser extent, to MoCIT) on the structure of regulatory agencies, their
role in the marketplace, and required staffing. A study tour to pertinent US agencies was
organized for 6 top regulatory officials, and USAID continued to provide specialized advice on an
informal basis through the first half of 2003. USAID grant assistance on regulatory matters
totaled US$0.5 million through June, 2003. Starting in late 2002, the EU PHARE program
provided advice and assistance on overall agency operations, economic concentration and
competition, access to networks and interconnection, and facilitating access to facilities used by
multiple operators (e.g., transmission towers, rights of way).

Due to the change in the regulatory structure and the GoR preference to use grant assistance,
several TRPSP technical assistance subcomponents to GICIT achieved less impact than
envisioned, or were dropped. The Spectrum Engineering and Management Operation Support
(SEMOS) contract advised GICIT on monitoring and assignment of the spectrum, fees for
spectrum use, spectrum management policy, and GICIT organization. While the contract
strengthened the agency, SEMOS' impact was less than expected because of reorganization of the
agency and personnel turbulence within GICIT in the context of changing GoR views of the
regulatory structure. And in light of the grant assistance provided by USAID and the EU, TRPSP
plans to provide technical assistance in the regulatory and licensing areas were not undertaken.

Attribution

The TRPSP was not the principal driving force behind the transformation of the telecom sector.
Rather, it was a timely facilitating instrument--an enabler--that permitted the sector's
transformation to occur more rapidly and more smoothly than would otherwise have been
possible, especially during the interim period before the current government came into power.



                                                - 12 -

There were four principal drivers behind the sector's transformation:

    1. The privatization of Rom Telecom
    2. Key government policy decisions in 1996 and 1997 to open the mobile market to new
    private entrants
    3. The country's obligation to WTO to liberalize the telecom market in January, 2003
    4. Romania's candidacy to join the EU, which led the country to adopt EU-compliant
    legislation and regulatory framework.

The privatization of Rom Telecom was an explicit TRPSP objective. Privatization advisors were
appointed within the framework of the project, and terms for the sale to OTE were concluded
within 3 months of the signing of the loan.

The TRPSP project documents describe the government's ambitious reform strategy for the
sector. They also note the country's agreement with WTO and its prospective EU candidacy, and
TRPSP explicitly set out a program of complementary actions designed to facilitate progress
toward fulfilling the country's obligations in these areas.

TRPSP provided support for an EU-compliant legal framework--the Framework Law--which
provided the legal foundation for the transparent regulation and implementation of the chosen
policy alternatives by the principal regulatory agency, NRAC. As noted, once the regulatory
structure was clarified, timely Bank legal assistance was critical in enabling NRAC to start
operations. It is not evident that other resources were available that could have achieved this goal
during this critical time.

Finally, the TRPSP also provided hardware, software, and technical advice to assist GICIT in
development of the NSMS. Considering the explosive growth in the use of the spectrum from
1998 to the present, service operators and regulators interviewed during the ICR mission stated
that they did not believe that an acceptable level of quality could have been maintained using the
antiquated pre-NSMS systems and practices.

In summary, while the TRPSP was not the main driving force behind the transformation of the
sector, it was a significant facilitating mechanism in the rapid transformation of the sector.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Output by components has been described in section 4.1.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was substantial:




                                                 - 13 -

         · Rom Telecom was privatized
         · The telecom sector was completely liberalized, with simplified rules for entry of new
             firms
         · The NSMS, although not yet operating at the level envisioned, substantially upgraded
             the country's capacity in spectrum management and monitoring
         · The Framework Law and related instruments were enacted, a signal achievement
             which enabled the country to provisionally close Chapter 19 of the acquis
             communitaire achieving another EU accession milestone
         · The key regulatory agency, NRAC, was established, funded, and began operation prior
             to liberalization. The agency met the SAR-specified criteria of independence,
             autonomy, structure, and clear area of responsibility
         · Basic regulations were issued by NRAC
         · GICIT capacity was strengthened

1
 See, for example, "Telecommunications Regulation Handbook," World Bank infoDev program, p. 1-6.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The availability of grant funding from USAID and the EU reduced the utilization of TRPSP
technical assistance. Project progress was also hindered by the poor performance of the NSMS
contractor. Beyond the force majeure circumstances of the fire in their facility, the firm supplied
substandard components.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The change in government's commitment to a single regulatory agency and subsequent shifts and
uncertainty regarding the regulatory structure, delayed progress in establishment of a regulatory
agency. Also, inconsistent government support for GICIT hampered its progress.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Major delays in bringing NSMS to a fully satisfactory status diminished the benefits from the
system. Part of the responsibility for the delays lay with GICIT, which--hindered by several
reorganizations and personnel turbulence--did not make satisfactory progress despite the on-site
presence of a technical consultant funded by TRPSP.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Procurement of software and equipment for the NSMS was less costly than originally estimated,
and consequently, US$7 million of the original loan amount of US$30 million was canceled on
March 1, 2000. Of the remaining US$23 million, US$13.55 million was disbursed, leaving
around US$9.45 million undisbursed at project close. The funds not utilized represent mainly
support envisioned for regional laboratories and workshops, and for capacity building in the
regulatory area, as discussed earlier. After the regulatory structure was clarified and the new role
of GICIT defined, the Bank and the GoR could not reach agreement on the scope of these
facilities. The Bank proactively identified and discussed with MoCIT certain additional areas for
utilizing the loan savings; however, MoCIT did not act on this proposal, but instead developed a
different set of proposals only six months before loan closing. The Bank's assessment was that
these proposals did not reflect a consistent MoCIT strategy, and lacked the strong rationale for


                                                     - 14 -

Bank financing of the original proposal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the benefits achieved is likely. NRAC and GICIT are functioning effectively, and
are funded independently, utilizing fees levied on operators. Support for reform from MoCIT
continues to be strong. As Romania moves toward EU accession in 2007, it is very unlikely to
backtrack on the reforms it has realized. Liberalization of the sector has brought in powerful
private firms which have invested large sums, and which are moving rapidly to expand their
customer base and introduce new services. These firms, and other private actors, are a powerful
voice for continued reform. And the transformation of the sector has brought improved service to
millions of customers, who are unlikely to tolerate a deterioration of service.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition to regular operations is essentially complete, with agencies operating on a routine
basis. The NSMS is likely to achieve its intended level of performance within 6-9 months.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As described earlier, quality at entry was satisfactory; the TRPSP was well designed and
well-timed to support and facilitate the transformation of the sector. Government support for
sector reform, evident during preparation and identification, remained strong throughout the
project. The vehicle of an investment loan that also included some policy components worked
well.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision dealt effectively with the change of government in 2000, and the change in the
regulatory structure preferred by the new government. While the Bank favored a single agency as
both technical and economic regulator--and advocated that position--when the government
determined its new structure, the Bank worked with the government, stipulated criteria for an
acceptable regulatory regime, and eventually determined that the GoR arrangement was
satisfactory. The Bank team's skills were well-suited to the project, and a 1999 QAG Quality of
Supervision Assessment rated supervision as satisfactory, with the Task Team's focus on
development impact found to be highly satisfactory.

As noted above, the project closed with US$9.3 million undisbursed. There was a substantial
dialogue between the Bank and the MoCIT on potential uses for these funds, but the Bank elected
not to fund the proposals put forth by the government, judging that they could be implemented
either using funds from other projects or from the GoR.

Romania's impetus to reform its telecom sector was heavily influenced by its status as a candidate
for EU accession. The Bank formed a close working relationship with the EU, and the
comprehensive legal framework developed for the sector also satisfied the requirements of
chapter 19 of the acquis communitaire. The Bank also coordinated closely with USAID in the
provision of technical assistance in the regulatory area.


                                                  - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was very active and helpful in preparation. Prior to project initiation, policy
decisions to permit the entry of new mobile operators set the stage for later progress. When the
TRPSP was prepared, the then Minister of Communications, under whose guidance the first 35%
of Rom Telecom was privatized in 1998, played an active role in the project design and
envisioned that GICIT would be the sole regulatory agency for all telecommunications services in
Romania.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The new government preferred a different regulatory structure, and after a transitional period,
developed the system now in place. As noted earlier, these shifts and uncertainties over the
regulatory structure delayed progress in the establishment and build-up of capacity of a regulatory
agency. For around 2 years during the TRPSP, relations between GICIT and MoCIT were
strained, and project progress slowed. However, the government followed a consistent line of
strong support for reform, established a regulatory structure that was internationally recognized
as satisfactory, and generally took actions that permitted the transformation of the telecom sector
as described earlier. On balance, government implementation performance is assessed as
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
As noted earlier, during the course of the project GICIT's mandate changed several times, it was
reorganized, and it experienced considerable personnel turbulence. As noted earlier, this adversely
affected the impact achieved by the project's SEMOS contract. The closing date of the project
was extended once for up to six months. Better performance by GICIT could have reduced the
delays experienced by the project, and hence increased the benefits achieved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking the above factors into account, overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   l Stability of policy and agency structure contributes to project achievement: At
        appraisal, the country's policy development structure seemed clear. However, the
        subsequent government preferred a different arrangement, and considerable time passed
        before the current government and the new structure was clarified, and considerable
        TRPSP momentum was lost as a result.

   l Whether new agencies are more suitable for regulatory functions: TRPSP envisioned
        that GICIT, heretofore a technical agency, was also capable of being transformed and
        performing the administrative, legal, economic, and competition aspects of regulation. In
        retrospect, the project should have given equal consideration to the establishment of a
        new agency--which would work in close collaboration with the technical agency--to
        perform those functions.


                                                - 16 -

   l A competent spectrum management and monitoring system is necessary for an
        expanding, modern telecom sector: Spectrum management and monitoring prior to
        TRPSP was rudimentary, and would not have been sufficient to support the expansion of
        wireless services that occurred. The increased capabilities accorded by the
        NSMS--although not yet as robust as envisioned--were essential during a period of rapid
        growth in the use of the spectrum.

   l Close donor coordination is key to reform progress: The Bank maintained very close
        relations with the EU and USAID, both of which were active in providing assistance to
        the sector. This ensured that no duplication of effort occurred, and facilitated provision of
        timely advice. On the other hand, the availability of grant assistance from the other
        agencies reduced the utilization of TRPSP technical assistance.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GICIT Assessments of outcomes

Objective (a) assist Romania in reforming the telecommunications sector and privatizing existing
public sector telecommunications facilities

During the period of the TRPSP the Romanian telecom sector experienced a period of high
development of radiocommunication network and services in Romania. Taking into account the
full liberalization of the Romanian telecommunication market, effective from 1st of January 2003,
the trend for near future seems also to be optimistic, at least for some of the mobile and fixed
networks and services. During 2002 Rom Telecom was privatized and new technologies were
implemented, in order to provide the local loop by wireless means, mainly in areas with low
penetration of the wireline network, i.e. in rural or sparsely populated areas, but also in some
urban areas as well.

The analogue nationwide radio-link network, maintained and operated by the Rom Radiocom, has
been gradually turning to digital, at least on its main routes, connecting the major
telecommunication and radiocommunication distant nodes of the country. This network is of
primary importance and is used mainly for leasing capacities, between any two nodes, to
interested parties (other telecom operators or private companies) and as carrier for public radio
and television programs, from the central and regional studios of the public radio and television
companies to the national and regional networks of radio and TV transmitters.

Objective (b) Provide the necessary infrastructure to enable GICIT to maximize the productive
use of the radio frequency spectrum and to improve frequency assignment criteria for further
expansion of wireless communications services provision by private sector.

All the main components of the NSMS were installed and are operational, however deficiencies in
the system performances, and the changes in the regulatory framework, makes this component of
the project not fully operational.



                                                  - 17 -

The delays in NSMS implementation, beyond the design changes, and the force majeure event are
due to faulty components, therefore poor system performance. Nowadays the deficiencies are still
being addressed by the contractor.

Objective (c) Support GICIT in performing regulatory functions over all networks and services
in the telecom sector.

The year 2002 was marked by important milestones on the way of harmonizing Romanian
telecommunication sector with the EU regulatory regimes and practices, as the Romanian
Government adopted two important emergency ordinances, later modified and approved by laws
of the parliament, which are laying down: the general regulatory framework of the Romanian
telecommunications sector, thus implementing the framework directive and the authorization
directive of the European Union, and the conditions of access to the electronic communications
public networks and interconnection between these networks, thus implementing the access
directive of the EU.

The Romanian Regulatory Authority for Communications was founded in summer 2002 under the
authority of the Prime Minister. Also in mid 2002, the Romanian Parliament adopted the new
Audiovisual Act, replacing the previous law dating from 1992.

Early 2003, the Romanian Government adopted a decision concerning the radio equipment and
the telecommunications terminal equipment, with the aim of implementing the R&TTE directive
of the EU. Currently, the secondary regulatory framework is undergoing a reviewing process with
the aim of revising and updating it, bearing in mind the provisions of the new general regulatory
framework in the telecommunication sector adopted in 2002.

A revised and updated list of spectrum usage fees was elaborated by MoCIT and adopted in
September 2003 by Ministerial Ordinance. The national table of frequency allocations was also
reviewed in order to bring it closer to the European Common Allocations table. The last version
of the national table of frequency allocations was issued in November 2003 extended to 275 GHz.

Due to the change in the regulatory architecture, the 2 assistance subcomponents (RDP, SEMOS)
achieved less impact than expected. The SEMOS reports concerning the spectrum management
policies are under review and confirmation process. Policies, practices and procedures are in the
phase of correlation with the new regulations in force. Some of the SEMOS reports directly
linked with the current responsibilities of GICIT were reviewed and based on those
recommendations operations manuals were prepared, spectrum monitoring procedures were
established, etc.

TRPSP supported Romania to adopt an EU - compliant legal framework and also provided
Infrastructure to enable GICIT to keep up with the high development in the
telecommunications sector.

Taking into consideration the above [GICIT] are satisfied with the ICR.



                                                - 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

Sources:

IBM report, 6/03: "Third Report on Monitoring of EU Candidate Countries
(Telecommunications Services Sector)," prepared for the European Commission by IBM Business
Consulting




                                             - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Privatization of Romtelecom          June 1998                          December 1998
2. Telecom Benchmarks per WTO approved                                     January 1998
by Government
3. Expiry of Rom Telecom exclusivity    January 1, 2003                    January 1, 2003
4. Clarify GIC status                   January 2000                       July 2002
5. Establish Regulatory Agency          June 2000                          October 2002


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
GICIT computer system operational       February 1999                      April 2000
Final SMS Operation                     April 2000                         November 2002
Integrated NSMS in Operation            July 2001                          March 2004 *


1End of project
* Only parts of NSMS are in operation due to faulty supplies by contractor; Full integration projected
based on GIC estimate.




                                                        - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Sector Reform                                                            1.80                 1.80                  100
Regulatory Agency Development                                           37.70               27.94                    74

Total Baseline Cost                                                     39.50               29.74
 Physical Contingencies                                                  2.90
 Price Contingencies                                                     1.60
                            Total Project Costs                         44.00               29.74
                    Total Financing Required                            44.00               29.74


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                34.10              0.00               0.00             4.90              39.00
                                       (29.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (29.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               3.20             1.80              5.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.00)           (0.00)             (1.00)
   Total                                34.10              0.00               3.20             6.70              44.00
                                       (29.00)            (0.00)             (1.00)           (0.00)            (30.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             1.60              1.60
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                14.41              0.00              0.00             7.73             22.14
                                       (10.82)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.82)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.09             2.91              6.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.73)            (0.00)           (2.73)
   Total                                14.41              0.00              3.09             12.24            29.74
                                       (10.82)            (0.00)            (2.73)            (0.00)           (13.55)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 21 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component             Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                         Bank       Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Sector Reform                       1.80                             1.80                    100.0
Regulatory Agency Dev.   30.00     12.20                 13.55      14.39             45.2   118.0
Total                    30.00     14.00                 13.55      16.19             45.2   115.6

  Note: Amount shown under Govt. includes amounts financed by GICIT




                                                - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/1996                   3    Team Leader (1); Telecom
                                             Specialist (1); Spectrum
                                             Consultant (1)
              2/1997                    4    Team Leader (1); Telecom Sector
                                             Specialist (1); Regulatory
                                             Specialist (1); Privatization
                                             Specialist (1);

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              4/1997                    5    Team Leader (1);
                                             Privatization Specialist (1);
                                             Telecom Specialist (1); Legal
                                             Counsel (1); Operations
                                             Officer (1)

 Supervision
              11/1998                   2    Project Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Legal Counsel (1)
              05/04/1999                3    Project Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Regulatory Consultant (1);
                                             Privatization Expert (1)
              10/30/1999                3    Project Team Leader (1); Legal        S               S
                                             Counsel (1); Telecom Engineer
                                             (1)
              06/15/2000                2    Project Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              7/25/2000                 4    Project Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Legal/Regulatory Specialist (1);
                                             Project Officer (1); Spectrum
                                             Consultant (1)
              11/03/2000                5    Project Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Legal/Regulatory Specialist (1);
                                             Telecom Specialist (1); Project
                                             Officer (1); Spectrum Consultant
                                             (1);
              6/28/2001                 4    Project Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Spectrum Consultant (1); Project
                                             Officers (2)
              07/16/2001                2    Project Team Leader (1) Legal         S               S
                                             Counsel (1)
              09/21/2001                4    Project Team Leader (1); Legal        S               S
                                             Counsel (1); Spectrum
                                             Consultant (1); Project Officer
                                             (2)
              5/16/2002                 1    Frequency Spectrum Specialist         S               S
                                             (1)



                                              - 24 -

               6/24/2002                       4   Project Team Leader (1);             S          S
                                                   Legal/Regulatory Specialist (1);
                                                   Project Officer (1); Spectrum
                                                   Consultant (1)
               09/24/2002                      5   Project Team Leader (1);             S          S
                                                   Legal/Regulatory Specialist (1);
                                                   Project Officer (1); Spectrum
                                                   Consultant (1); Legal Counsel (1)
               4/11/2003                       2   Legal Counsel (1); Radio             S          S
                                                   Frequency Specialist (1)

 ICR
               11/14/2003                     1     Consultant (1)                      S          S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                   100.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                          90.0
  Supervision                                                                  409.2
  ICR                                                                            20.6
  Total                                                                        619.8
Note: The original FY03 project concept as an investment project was dropped in FY06 and a revised
concept as a TA loan was approved in FY07. Hence, costs during FY03-06 have been excluded and
adjusted for lending (identification through negotiation) during FY07-08 for TRPSP.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

IBM, "3rd Report on Monitoring of EU Candidate Countries (Telecommunication Services Sector), June
2003




                                               - 28 -

- 29 -

