Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4319 RO
Guarantee Agreement
(Telecommunications Reform and Privatization Support Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  May 29, 1998  
LOAN NUMBER 4319 RO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1998, between ROMANIA (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the General Inspectorate of Communications (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of  the Loan Agreement (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of Parts 
B(2) and B(3) of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly 
to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are 
needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out Parts A and B(1) of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in the 
telecommunications sector reform program, agreed with the Bank, and, after such 
exchange of views, the Guarantor shall take all actions required to ensure the 
successful implementation of the program.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall:
(a)
by September 30, 1998, submit to the Bank, for its review, a strategy for 
the privatization of Rom Telecom;
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said strategy taking into consideration 
the Bank’s comments thereon; and
(c)
carry out such strategy in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall:
(a)
by April 30, 1999, submit to the Bank, for its review, a regulatory 
development program for the Borrower based on principles agreed with the Bank for the 
telecommunications sector, and immediately thereafter finalize said program taking 
into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon;
(b)
by December 31, 1999, adopt and commence the implementation of said 
program; and
(c)
by June 30, 2000: (i) submit to the Bank, for its review, policies for 
Page  3
radio frequency assignment, licensing methods and fees for competitive services; (ii) 
immediately thereafter, finalize said policies taking into consideration the Bank’s 
comments thereon; and (iii) by September 30, 2000, commence the implementation of said 
policies.  
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall take all measures as may be required on its 
part to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the carrying out of Parts A and B(1) of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A and B(1) of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A and B(1) of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A 
and B(1) of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI),
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  4
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mircea Geoana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
