                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No.: 47618




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                    ROMANIA

 TELECOMMUNICATIONSREFORM AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORTPROJECT



                                  (LOAN 4319-RO)



                                   March 3,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group (WorldBank)

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit New Romanian Lei (RON)
                  =


                                                   ROM 0.89
                                                   ROM 1.54
                                                   ROM 2.12
                                                   ROM 2.94
                                                   ROM 3.41
                                                   ROM 3.41
                                                   ROM 3.34
                                                   ROM 2.94
                                                   ROM 2.82
                                                   ROM 2.45



Abbreviations and Acronyms

ANRC         National Regulatory Agency for Communications
ANRCTI       National Regulatory Authority for Communications and Information Technology
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB          European InvestmentBank
GIC          General Inspectorateof Communications
GICIT        General Inspectorateof Communications and Information Technology
GOR          Governmentof Romania
ICR          ImplementationCompletionReport
IEG          IndependentEvaluation Group
IEGWB        IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)
ITU          International TelecommunicationsUnion
MOCIT        Ministry of Communicationsand Information Technology
NSMS         National SpectrumManagement System
OTE          Hellenic TelecommunicationsOrganization
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
RDP          RegulatoryDevelopmentProgram
RFMS         Radio Frequency Spectrum Management
SAR          StaffAppraisal Report
SEMOS        SpectrumEngineering and Management Operation Support
USAID        United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
VoIP         Voice-over Internet Protocol
WTO          World Trade Organization



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1 -December 31



Director-General,Independent Evaluation                   : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)        : Ms. CherylGray
Manager, SectorEvaluation Division                        : Ms. MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                              : Mr. Peter Freeman

  IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and indepepdence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programsand activities oftheWorld Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrityofthe Bank'sselfevaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork isproducingthe
expected results, and second,to help developimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthroughthe
dissemination of lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As partof this work, IEGWB annually assessesabout 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations throughfield work. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceisgivento those
that are innovative, large,or complex;thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.

       To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowingcountryto discussthe operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders, and interviewBank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subjectto internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attachedto
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the IEGWBRatingSystem
      IEGWB's use of multiple evaluationmethods offers both rigor and a necessary levelof flexibilityto adapt to
lending instrument,project design, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definition and ratingscale used for each evaluationcriterion
(additional informationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto
be achieved,efficiently. The rating has threedimensions: relevance,efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's current developmentpriorities and with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers,Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project'sdesign is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacyis the extentto which the project'sobjectives
were achieved,or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.Efficiencyisthe
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimensiongenerally is not applied to adjustment
operations.Possibleratingsfor Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation,that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratingsfor Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operationand supportedeffective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequate
transition arrangementsfor regularoperation of supported activities after loanlcreditclosing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratingsfor BankPerformance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies)ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements,towardthe achievement of developmentoutcomes. The rating hastwo dimensions: government
performanceand implementing agency(ies)performance.Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly
Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS               .................................................................................................................... V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                    ..........................................................................................................V

PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................Vll


SUMMARY      ...................................................................................................................................... IX

1.      BACKGROUND               ..................................................................................................................  1


2.      THE PROJECT             ...................................................................................................................  3

        Project Objectives and Design                      ........................................................................................ 3

3.      IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE                                ................................................................................... 6

4.      MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                 ...................................................................................9

        Design     ................................................................................................................................  9

        Implementation            .................................................................................................................9
        Utilization     ........................................................................................................................... 9
        Monitoring and Evaluation Summary                              ............................................................................. 9

5.      PROJECT OUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE AND RATINGS                                                    ........................................10

        Relevance        ........................................................................................................................10
        Efficacy     ............................................................................................................................  10

        Efficiency      .........................................................................................................................  14

        Outcome       ...........................................................................................................................  14

        Risk to Development Outcome                        ...................................................................................... 14
        Bank Performance               .........................................................................................................15
        Borrower Performance                  ...................................................................................................  15


6.      BROADER ISSUESARISING FROMfHIS EVALUATION                                                     ........................................16

7.      LESSONS        .........................................................................................................................   16




This report was prepared by Peter Freeman. who assessed the project in May. 2008.Romayne Pereira
provided administrativesupport.

ANNEX A. BASIC DATA SHEET
                        ..................................................................................................18

ANNEX B. ROMANIAN NATIONALREGULATORYAUTHORITY FOR COMMUNICATIONS
AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY: STATISTICS                ................................................................... 21

PrincipalRatings

TelecommunicationsReform andPrivatization Project (Loan 4319-RO)


                                   ICR*                 ICR Review*                    PPAR


Outcome                         Satisfactory             Satisfactory          ModeratelySatisfactory

Institutional                   Substantial              Substantial
Development
Impact**

Risk to                                                                           Negligibleto Low
Development
Outcome

Sustainability***                  Likely                   Likely

Bank                            Satisfactory             Satisfactory          ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance

Borrower                        Satisfactory             Satisfactory          ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance

*The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The
ICR Reviewis an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
"As of July I,  2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactis assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
"*As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has beenreplaced by Risk to Development Outcome.As the scales are
different, the ratingsare not directly comparable.


Key Staff Responsible
Project              Task Manager/Leader             Division Chief/              CountryDirector
                                                    Sector Director

Appraisal               VaradarajanAtur              Franco Batzella                Kenneth Lay
Completion              VaradarajanAtur                 Henk Busz                  Anand K. Seth


Preface

        This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR)prepared by the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) for the Telecommunications Reform and
Privatization Support Project (Loan 4319-RO).The International Bank for
Reconstructionand Development (IBRD) loan to the Government of Romania (GOR)
was approved by the Board of Directors on April 28, 1998in the amount of US$30.00
million equivalent. At appraisal the total project cost was estimated to be US$44.00
million, with US$14.00 million to be contributed by the GOR.

        In the event, the IBRD loan was substantially under-spent; US$13.55 millionwas
disbursed (45.2 percent of the original loan amount) and US$16.45 million was
cancelled. The final total project cost disbursed was US$29.74 million. Project closure
was delayed by six months because of delays in the implementation of the contract for
spectrum engineeringand management operation support.

        The project was selected for assessment because of its potentially important
contributionto telecommunications sector strategydevelopment in Romania. Some
useful lessons can be drawn fiom this project which will be valuable for other similar
projects in the region and elsewhere. It will also provide an input into the planned IEG
review of Bank-financed projects in telecommunications and the knowledge economy.

       IEG prepared this report based on an examinationof the relevant Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), Implementation Completion Report (ICR), legal agreements, project files
and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers.
Discussions were also held with Bank staff in both Washington D.C. and in Bucharest.
An IEG field mission visited Romania in May 2008, conducted site visits, and discussed
both the project and the effectivenessof Bank assistancewith relevant officials and
stakeholders. The mission appreciates the courtesiesand attention given by these
interlocutors as well as the supportprovided by the Bank's office in Bucharest.

       Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to
government officials and agenciesfor their review but no commentswere received.


Summary

        The Romania TelecommunicationsReform and Privatization Support Project
(Loan4319-RO)was designed to support the reform of the country's telecommunications
sector.After the enactment of a TelecommunicationsLaw in 1996the Government of
Romania (GOR) started taking significant stepstowards liberalizing and reforming the
country's telecom sector. The challenge was to meet the requirements in this area for
accessionto the EU and at the sametime comply with the requirements of the World
Trade Organization(WTO) and the International TelecommunicationsUnion (ITU). To
this end the Bank gave supportfor further sector reform, includingan appropriate
regulatory frameworkwhich culminated in the establishmentof a regulatory agency and
the privatization of Romtelecom.

        The objectives of the project were:

     P To assist Romania in reforming the telecom sector, includingprivatizationof
        existingpublic sector telecom facilities;

     P To provide the necessary infrastructureto enablethe Borrower to maximize the
        productive use of the radio frequency spectrum and to improve frequency
        assignment criteriafor further expansion of wireless communicationsservices
        provision by the private sector; and

     P To supportthe Borrower in performing regulatory functionsover all networks and
        services in the telecom sector.

        Taking into account the achievement of the individual development objectives
two substantially achieved and one modestly achieved, (that accounted for the bulk of the
Bank funding), together with a high relevance rating, but a modest efficiencyrating, the
overalloutcome is rated moderately satisfactory.On January 1,2003Romania
completely liberalized its telecom sector, by removing Romtelecom's exclusive rights to
offer voice telephony and leased wire services,and through implementinga simplified
procedure for providers to enter the market. The majority shareholdingin Romtelecom
was taken up by the private sector after 54 percent of the shares were purchased by a
Greek company. The project also provided critical support for the developmentof an EU-
compliantlegal framework and assistedin the preparations for the establishmentof a
regulatory agency. Although the training elements were substantiallyachieved,this was
largely achieved in the event with other external resources and not from the Bank loan.

        The installationof a National Spectrum Management System (NSMS), which
utilized the bulk of the loan, proved problematicaland there were deficienciesin system
performance that were still being addressed long after the project closed. The project
should have closed on December 31,2002, but this date was extended to June 30,2003
due to a proliferation of design changes. The full implementationof the NSMS was
fbrther delayed because of system operationalproblems and difficultiesin obtaining
zoning approval for the high frequency station.

        Not much thought was given to Monitoring and Evaluation(M&E) during design
with onlymodest results, but during implementation important key performance
indicators were put in place together with a log fiamematrix. This substantial progress
was continued after project closure and the regulatoryagency (ANRCTI)now makes
public a relatively sophisticated database which is used and appreciated by the industry.
Overall, M&E was substantial.

        The risk to developmentoutcome is negligible.ANRCTIis hctioning
effectivelyand funded independentlyusing fees levied on the operators.Romania has
complied with the terms of accession and been admitted to the EU and is also in full
compliancewith the requirements of both WTO and ITU. It has graduatedto a level
where it is highly unlikely to reverse reforms achieved. Liberalizationof the sectorhas,
moreover, brought in severalvigorous private firms contributingsignificantcapital flows.
The presence of these firms is likelyto build popular support for furtherreform, and thus
this transformation is highly unlikely to be reversed.

        In generalthe project was adequatelydesigned, but the equipmentcostswere
overestimated. The assistancewith the legal regulatory fiamework also proceeded well
forthe most part. However, the relationshipbetween the implementingagency and the
Bank in respect of the NSMS was a difficultone. The Bank team did not succeed in
reaching an agreement on the issue of design changes, nor on the scope of support forthe
envisioned laboratoriesand workshops.

        It also did not succeedin persuading the GOR to adopt a singleregulatory model,
rather than a split-responsibility,two-agency model that in the end had to be changed to
the singlemodel version immediatelyprior to EU accession.When the loan was closed
only 45 percent of the funds available had been expended.While some of the
shortcomingswere due inpart to factorsbeyond the Bank's control,project completion
took much longer than had been planned. Bank performancewas moderately
satisfactory.

        During preparation the GOR was very active and helpful. For example, the then
Minister of Communicationsplayed an activerole in the project design and concurred
with the Bank on the need for a singleregulatory agency. In this period the groundwork
for Romtelecomprivatizationwas successfullycarried out. However, after a change in
governmentthe commitment to a singleregulatoryagency changed. For about two years
there were uncertaintiesin respect of the mandate and regulatory architecture.This led to
delays in building-up the necessary capacityto move forward,which in turn led to slow
project progress.

        The then implementingagency, the General Inspectorate for Communications and
InformationTechnology(GICIT),was somewhat inflexible in approach, insisting against
Bank adviceon extensive design changes, and this accountedin part for delays to the
project. The agency also changedthe scope of the facilities for regional laboratoriesand
workshops; it was also unable to quicklyresolve deficienciesin systemperformance,and
did not fullyutilize the expertiseof the project management consultants. Overall
borrower performancewas moderately satisfactory.

       The following important lessonscan be gleaned from the assessmentof this
project:

       In the telecom sector and in the RomaniaTelecommunicationReform and
       Privatization Project, where the frontier of technology is moving at a rapid pace, it
       is advisableto build a degree of flexibility into project design and supervisionto
       accommodateat least some of the new applicationsthat may become possible
       during implementation.

   9 ProjectdesignoftelecomprojectssuchastheRomaniaTelecommunication
       Reform and Privatization Project involvingequipmentprocurementand
       installation should give more attentionto risks in project cost estimation and
       assessment of bidders for the supply and installation of telecom equipment.
       Supervisionshould help ensure that appointedproject managementconsultants
       are fullyutilized.

   >   While it is importantfor the Bank to focus on technical assistance aspects of
       telecom projects, such as supportfor training and for the developmentof the
       policy and regulatory frameworks, it is also essential to ascertain potential support
       for suchcomponentsfrom other internationalfinancial institutionsand agenciesto
       eliminate duplication of resources, as occurred in the Romania
       TelecommunicationReform and PrivatizationProject.




                                                             Vinod Thomas
                                                             Director-General
                                                                Evaluation


1.      Background

1.1       Romania is a middle income country with a GNI per capita of US$4,850 in
2006.' With a population of 21.6 million, it is the second largest country in central and
Eastern Europe and the seventh largest among the 27 currentmembers of the European
Union (EU). Although Romania's transitionfrom a centrallyplanned to a market
economy began in 1990, initially the government was hesitant to imposetight fiscal
constraintsand privatize large loss-making enterprises. Negative economic growth in the
late nineties, however, led to improved financialdiscipline and the adoptionof
macroeconomicpolicies that encouraged economicgrowth.

1.2       Romaniajoined the EU on January lSt,2007-the           prospect of becoming an EU
member having provided a good incentivefor the transfornlation of the country during
the previousten years. Progress in reforms translatedinto a robust GDP growth averaging
5 to 6 percent for seven consecutive years, with inflation declining steadily.2However,
the trade deficit remains a cause for concern, and EBRD has recently warned that a
failureto develop sufficientphysical infrastructure could act as a brake on economic
gr~wth.~International competitionand skilled labor shortages are squeezing traditional
industries as demand shifts to higher qualityproducts and services. The populationof
Romania has actually fallen by 1.7million over the last ten years, due partly to
emigration, but also to a decline in the country's birth rate.4

1.3       Commencing in 1996with the enactment of a new TelecomrnunicationsLaw,
the GOR began to take significantstepsto liberalizeand reform the telecomrnunicationsS
sector, inter alia licensing a number of private firms to provide mobile telephone service.
It broadened these actions by its commitmentsto the World Trade Organization(WTO)
and the EU, the latter in the context of preparing for accessionin 2007. The
TelecommunicationsReform and PrivatizationSupportProject (Loan 4319-RO)was thus
designed to supportand help facilitatethe government's program of telecom reform.

1.4       The value of the Romanian telecom market (comprising fixed and mobile
telephony services, internet services, data transmission and leased lines) was estimatedto
be US$5.07 billion in 2007, having experienced a growth of 21 percent over 2006.~This
upsurge in consumption has been accelerating since Romaniabegan transitioningto a
market economy, and as technological changes have opened up new and diverse
communication opportunitiesto all citizens.In particular, the expansion of the usage of
cellular telephones in Romania has more than tripled from 7,040 million users in 2003 to
22,875 million in 2007.' The mobile penetration rate per 100inhabitantsimproved from



'World Bank data based on the GNI Atlas method
 World Bank, Romanian Business DigestReport,March 2008
3EBRD, "DoingBusiness-Transition Report in Romania",March2008
4Labor Minister, Hon. Paul Pacuraru, statementreportedin "Nine0'Clock Newspaper,"May 15,2008
 Hereafterreferredto as telecom
 Romanian Business Digest; estimateby Roland Berger StrategyConsultants
'www.anrcti.ro

38.6 percent in June 2004 to 81 percent at January lSt2007, but below the average of the
EU15 countriesat accession,see Figure 1.1.

Figure 1.1 Penetration rates of mobileservicesin Romania compared to EU 15
penetration rates prior to Romania's accessionto the EU on January 1,2007




*Source: httv://www.comreg.ie/ fileu~load/~ublications/ComRea0652;
                                                                courtesy of ANRCTI

1.5         With the Romanian telecommarket approachingmaturity, traditional services
such as fixed linetelephony, followinginternational trends, are beginning to experience
sustainedpressure on revenues due to stronger competitionand continued price erosion
from mobile tele hony and with the emergenceof alternative servicessuch as Voice-over
                    P
Internet Protocol (VoIP).

1.6         Originally,the telecom regulatory functionwas the responsibilityof the General
Inspectorate of Communications (GIC), re-organized as the GeneralDirectorate of
Communicationsand InformationTechnology (GICIT) in March 2002. Six months later
the National Regulatory Agency for Communications (ANRC)was established,but
responsibility for spectrum management was kept with GICIT. This situationprevailed
until December, 2006 when ANRC was replaced by the National RegulatoryAuthority
for Communicationsand Information Technology (ANRCTI). The new authoritywas
also given the mandate to regulatethe converging informationtechnology domaing,since



8Voice-over-InternetProtocolsystemsor VoIP cany telephony signals as digital audio; this means one
ferson can talk to anotherthroughthe internet,as though it were a phone.
 Principallythe convergenceof digitalization, broadcastingandthe internet

there was no institutional regulatory framework to assure the country's transitionto the
 emerginginformation societylO.In April 2007 ANRCTI formallytook over the functions
 of GICIT as well as responsibility to ensure hll harmonizationof national and EU
 legislation.The Ministry of Communications and InformationTechnology (MOCIT)
remains responsible for policy development, while the Competition Councilis the
national authorityresponsible for competitionissues in all sectorsof the economy,
includingthe electroniccommunications sector.

2. The Project

Project Objectivesand Design

   2.1      The objectivesof the project as laid out in the StaffAppraisal Report (SAR) and
            Loan Agreement are as follows:

     >    To assist Romania in reforming the telecom sector, including privatizationof
          existingpublic sector telecom facilities;

     >    To provide the necessary infrastructureto enable the Borrower to maximize the
          productive use of the radio frequencyspectrum and to improve frequency
          assignment criteria for further expansionof wireless communications services
          provision by the private sector; and

     >    To supportthe Borrower in performingregulatory functions over all networks and
          servicesin the telecom sector.

   2.2      There were two components:

   i.    Broad-based Sector Reform: comprised of the privatizationof om-telecom" and
         the development of policy, legal and regulatory frameworks:

          >   Policy framework: to further developand supportthe basic policy framework,
              building on Romania's agreementwith the WTO and to ensure consistency
              with the EU acquis cornmuna~taire*~.The effort was intended to focus on
              suchkey areas as industry structure,competitionpolicy, ownershippolicy,
              pricing policy, regulatory policy, and the extentto which the existing entities
              could participate in various service areas;




loA knowledge economy project with World Bank support has been launched to develop local community
electronicnetworks.
11Romtelecom is still the largesttelecommunicationscompany in Romania;the company had a monopoly
for the provision of fixedtelephony services until January I, 2003.
l2 The term acquis communautaireis used in the EU to refer to the total body of EU law accumulatedto
date. During the process of enlargementof the EU, the acquis was divided into 31chapters for the purpose
of negotiationbetween the EU and the candidate member states. Chapter 19refers to telecommunication
and informationtechnologies.

             >    Legal framework: Provide legal underpinning for transparentregulation
                  and the chosen policy alternatives;

             >    Regulatory framework: Strengthentechnicalregulation (quality of service,
                  type approvalof equipment, frequency spectrum management) and
                  economicregulation (such as prices and license fees).

  ii.   RegulatoryAgency Development: this component focused on the initial concept of
        strengtheningthe GIC (later re-organized as GICIT) as the singleregulatory body
        for the telecom sector, including modernization of its infrastructurefor radio
        spectrum management and monitoring. A Regulatory Development Program
        (RDP) was to be designed and implementedunder the project, consistent with the
        overall sector policy, with the following governing principles:

             9 IndependenceofGICITfrombothentitieswhichwould beregulatedand
                 from the policy makers;

             9 Structureto definethelegal,organizationalandadministrative
                 arrangementsunder which GICIT functions as an independent body;

             9 Autonomy, consistingofbothoperationalautonomy (suchas appointment
                 of regulators on a transparent basis and meeting minimum qualifications)
                 as well as financial autonomy (for example, independencefrom the
                 national budget and financing of GICIT from regulatory services);

             >   Area ofresponsibility defining GICIT's purview of regulation as well as
                 the necessary instruments (such as economicregulation,technical
                 regulation, interconnectionregulation, service quality regulation,
                 monopoly operator regulation, promotion of competition,spectrum
                 assignment and licensing).

  2.3     It was envisagedthat the project would fund the establishmentof a National
          Spectrum Management System (NSMS) with three main elements:

             9 Installationof hardwareandoperatingsystemsoftware;

             9 Installationof applicationsoftwarefortheRadioFrequency Management
                 System (RFMS). This would enable the authoritiesto assurethat
                 allocationof frequencies would be in accordance with the International
                 TelecornrnunicationsUnion (ITU)'~guidelines, and would alsobe used to
                 evaluate new applicationsto avoid potential interferencewith existing
                 services, compliance with national regulations, and cross-border frequency
                 coordination;




l3The ITU's main tasks includestandardization,allocationofthe radio spectrum, and organizing
interconnection arrangementsbetweendifferent countries. It is one ofthe specialized agencies ofthe
UnitedNations, andhas its headquartersin Geneva, Switzerland.

            >   Establishment of a frequency monitoringsystemto assure that
                transmissions by licensees are in conformancewith their frequency
                allocationsand consistentwith the provisions of their license. For this
                purpose, the program provided for the procurement of 22 fixed monitoring
                stations, 10mobile stations, 15transportable stations, one high-frequency
                station,and enabling software.

2.4       Table 2.1 shows the distributionof fundingbetween the Bank and the GOR as
estimated at appraisalas well as actual costs incurred. Only 45.2 percent of the IBRD
loan was utilized and only 67.8 percent of the original estimated project cost was
expended; GOR's share of the project cost was 15.6percent higher than anticipated.

Table 2.1 Project Cost Estimates at Appraisal and Actual Costs Incurred (US$
millions)

Item            Bank        Bank          GOR         GOR           Total        Total
                Appraisal Completion Appraisal Completion Appraisal Completion

Sector              -          -            1.80        1.SO           1.SO       1.SO
Reform

Regulatory        1.OO       2.73           2.20        1.47          3.20        4.20
Agency TA

Equipment        29.00       10.82         10.00       12.92          39.00      23.74

Total            30.00       13.55         14.00       16.19          44.00      29.74

Source:ICRISAR

2.5       This telecom project was strongly supportedby GOR, which was keen to gain
privatization revenues and the project was specificallycited as a priority in the Country
Assistance Strategy(CAS) of 1997.Quality at entry was deemed to be satisfactory by the
Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG), which undertooka Rapid SupervisionReport in
1999in which it stated that the project designwas sound,the project was fullyready for
implementation,and that Borrower commitment was strong. IEG, however, does have a
caveat because the project cost estimate was clearly too high, (seeparagraph 3.7).

2.6       The originalproject concept in 1992envisagedfinancingto cover Rom-
telecom's fixed telephonenetwork, but after Romania secured fundingfor this purpose
fiom the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (EBRD), the World Bank's preparation activitieswere suspended, and
after further deliberationsthe project in due course evolved into its present form with the
emphasis on technical assistance.

3. ImplementationExperience

3.1       Design changes. The project was approved on April 28,1998 and became
effective virtually on schedule on September 21, 1998.During a post-effectiveness
designreview, however, GIC and the Bank had a disagreement over the design concept,
with the Bank supportingthe project as already conceived, and GIC strivingto adapt the
design with changingtechnology and higher performance standards. GIC went ahead and
negotiated over 30 designchanges with the contractorconcerningthe NSMS. In the
event, the Bank maintained that most proposed changes were unnecessary and added to
project complexity, thus raising the degree of technical risk. Accordingly, it declined to
financethe amendments,but GIC proceeded using own funds for this additionalwork.
The process of introducing design changes, the attendant review by the Bank, and
subsequentnegotiations led to a delay of about sevenmonths before the project was
closed.

3.2       IEG believes that there could have been room for some compromise between
the parties (see alsoparagraph 5.17), especiallyas ,theequipment cost was in the end
much lower than anticipated.A problem with the fiilancingof telecom projects is that the
fiontier of technology, and especially digital technology, is moving at such a fast pace
that by the time the project is approved the specificationsare outdated by new demands
fiom for examplethe ITU and, also in this case, the EU.

3.3       Regulatorystructure. Under the RDP the Bank recommendedthat the GOR
should establisha single regulator and at appraisal such a structurewas agreed with GIC
performing this regulatory function.However, followinga change in government this
conceptwas rejected by GOR in favor of a two-agency model, with GICIT (the successor
of GIC) responsible for spectrum management and monitoring (includingthe assignment
of fiequenciesto nongovernmental users), while ANRC, a newly established entity,was
to take responsibilityfor administeringthe regulatoryregime, as well as the economic
and competition aspectsof regulation.

               Figure 3.1:Regulatory Structureas Conceived in the SAR


                                                                             GOR
                                                                        Prime Ministry
                                                                            Cabinet


                                   v
                                                                              I
                *~konomic/competitionregulation
                *Licensing                                                Ministryof
                *Technicalregulation (frequency                        Communications
                monitoring,etc.



              Iorln   I
                    Operatingcompanies




                   Figure 3.2: Regulatory Architecture as Implemented

                                                                                GOR
                                                                            Prime Ministry
                                                                               Cabinet

                                                                                1
                                                                     Ministry of Communications&
                                                                         Information Technolcgy
                                                                    *Spectrumand numberingpolicy
                                                                    -Licensingofspectrum usage


               ~Fkonomic/competitionregulation
                                                                                GICIT
               *Mamgeauthorizationprocess
                                                                     *Technicalregulation
               *Addtiom1licensing fimtions
                                                                     *Monitorspectrum




                                                 Operatingcompanies




3.4     In both models MOCIT remained responsiblefor policy development(see
Figures 3.1 and 3.2). The GOR claimed that this bifurcated institutional arrangementwas
in linewith the practice at the time in countries such as the United Kingdom. Reluctantly,

the Bank agreed with this proposal since the regulator could still perform functions
independently both from MOCIT and from the system operators. It also had financial
autonomy. The EU also accepted this structure for the provisional closing of the acquis
communitaire,but signaledthat the singlemodel was preferable and that this issuewould
have to be sorted out prior to Romania's formal EU accession.

3.5        The Britishmodel was thought by the Bank, however, to be a poor comparison
with the situationprevailing in Romania. This was because the United Kingdom was
already a mature market econonly with well-established institutionsfor dispute
resolution, includingan independentjudiciary. Sincethat time the British.havein any
case abandoned the two-agency model further vindicatingthe Bank's position. Although
ANRC handled the majority of the regulatory functions, MOCIT remained responsible
for frequency allocation, but as MOCIT owned 46 percent of Romtelecom and other
telecom infrastructureassets including the National Radio-communicationscompany,
(Rom-radiocom),there was a potential conflict of interests. Over three years after project
closure, but prior to EU accession, the GOR reversed the two agency decision, and
ANRC became ANRCTI, as a singleagency with full regulatory authority.

3.6       Performance of the contractor. The contractorhad problems in supplying
components that were fault-free. There was a fire in the assembly facilitywhich led to a
declaration offorce majeure circumstances, compounding the implementation delays
already apparent.Even after this crisis was overcome, the contractor continued to deliver
faulty componentsat an unacceptably high rate, which distracted GIC to a certainextent
from its other responsibilities.

3.7        Procurement,project scope and safeguards. The procurement of the software
and equipment for the NSMS was less costly than originallyestimated. US$7.0 million
was cancelled from the IBRD loan on March 1,2000 and a furtherUS$9.45 million at
project close, which meant that only 45.2 percent of the loan was disbursed. The ICR is
silent on why there was a cost over-estimate,but IEG notes that in part savingswere due
to a competitivemarket for international bids (the successful bidder, which was ranked
high on quality, was 30 percent cheaper than the secondbidder) and possibly in part to a
reduction in equipmentprices due to unforeseen advances in technology.

3.8       Part of the cancellation was also due, however, to miscommunication between
the Bank and GIC on the scope of supportenvisionedfor regional laboratories and
workshops. In January2001, without consultationwith the Bank, GIC concluded a
contract for the supply of equipment including various componentsalready covered
under the IBRD loan. The Bank argued that GIC was not followinga consistentstrategy
and that accordinglyit should rather use its own funds to finance this sub component.It
also noted that there was potential duplication with the capacity building support offered
by the EU and USAID, and sincethese organizationsoffered grant funding, GOR clearly
preferred to use these sources instead of loan funds.

3.9       IEG notes that no safeguardswere triggered by this project, which was rated as
a categoryC project with minimal or no adverse impacts. There was a zoning problem
related to land acquisitionat the high frequency station, which was resolved with the
appropriate authorities.

4. Monitoring and Evaluation


Design

4.1       Neither the SAR nor the ICR give evidenceof a great deal of thought going into
the monitoringand evaluation(M&E) function duringpreparation,although admittedly
in 1998this aspect was poorly developed in many areas in the Bank. The SARmentions
only the standardproceduresfor monitoring project implementation, such as quarterly
progress reports and annual audit reports.

Implementation

4.2       The ICR, however, records severalkey performance indicatorswithin a log
frame matrix, but the targets had to be retrofitted in early implementation as no targets
had previously been set. This matrix includes some useful time-related measures such as
the achievement of privatizationby Romtelecom, WTO benchmarks,the expiry date for
Romtelecom exclusivity, clarification of GIC's status, and the establishment of a
RegulatoryAgency. For the installation of the NSMS three output indicators were
mentioned: i) date that the GICIT computer systembecame operational; ii) date that the
spectrummanagement system became operational and iii) date that the integrated NSMS
became operational.Though not included in the log frame annex the ICR also refers to
indicators of the rate of expansionof the telecom sector in Romania, but admitsthat there
is a problem in linkingprogress in this project with such growth sincemany other factors
are also attributableto this phenomenon.

4.3       The indicatorsabovewere used to track project progress, and, after the setting
up of the NSMS, the number of timesthe system was used was also monitored showinga
significantincrease in applicationsfor licenses and assignments on the frequency band.
With the setting up of GICIT and its subsequenttransformationinto ANRC (and
eventuallyANRCTI) a statisticaldatabase of indicators gradually evolved as evidenced
in the Annual Reports and website. However, much of this developmentoccurred only
after project closure.

Utilization

4.4       IEG discussionswith industry representativesindicate that the current system of
indicators fkrtherdeveloped by ANRCTI is well used and is continuing to evolve. For
example it includesdetails of the rate of expansion of fixed and mobile telephony and
indicators of the degree of competitivenesswithin the industry.It is also likely to expand
M e r because of the need to fall in line with the requirements of the WHO, ITU and the
EU.

Monitoring and Evaluation Summary

4.5       Little thoughtwas given to M&E during designwith only modest results, but
during implementation important key performance indicatorswere put in place together
with a log frame matrix. This substantialprogress continued afterproject closure and

ANRCTI now makes public a relatively sophisticated database which is used and
 appreciated by the industry. Overall, M&E was substantial.

 5. Project Outcomes by Objective and Ratings

Relevance

 5.1      As mentioned in paragraph 2.5, the project development objectiveswere
supported by GOR, which was keen to gain privatization revenues and conform to both
WTO and EU practice in telecoms. The project was also specificallyprioritized in the
CAS of 1997.The Bank recognized that the demand for telecom serviceshad doubled in
the decade prior to this project, and also that the rapid advancement in communication
technologies had removed many of the technological barriers to market entry. Tariffs for
basic services needed to be liberalized and the sector openedto competitionas soon as
possible. This entailed fairly radical sectorreform with the new dispensationframed
within an appropriatepolicy, legal and regulatory architecture. The development
objectives were thus highly relevant. Project design was relevant in that there were
components dealingwith privatization, a regulatory framework and the establishment of
the NSMS to upgrade Romania's previous rudimentary spectrummanagement capability
to meet accelerating user demand. Overall relevance was and remains high.

Efficacy

5.2       Objective i) to assist Romania in reforming the telecom sector, including
privatization of existingpublic sector telecomfacilities. Substantiallyachieved In
accordancewith its WTO obligations, on January 1,2003Romania completely
liberalized its telecom sector, by removing Romtelecom's exclusiverights to offer voice
telephony and leased.wire services,and through implementing a simplifiedprocedure for
providers to enter the market. The Bank assisted GIC by reviewing the terms of reference
for the privatization advisors; supportinga consultancy for the RegulatoryDevelopment
Program; periodically monitoringimplementation progress; and ensuring coordination
between the various stakeholders. For example it visited the Information Society
Directorate General of the European Community in Brussels, and the EU delegation in
Bucharest to help ensure that the process of regulatory reform would fully meet EU
requirements.l4

5.3       The majority shareholdingin Romtelecom, which remains the predominant
provider of fixed line services,was taken up by the private sector after 54 percent of the
shareswere purchased by a Greek company, Hellenic Telecommunications organization,
(OTE) in two separate initiatives.15~heremaining 46 percent shareholdingis still owned
by the GOR, but the MOCIT is planning to sell off these remaining shares when market
conditions improve. It is significantthat Romtelecom has become a much more efficient
operation with the number of employeesreduced from 50,000 in 1998to 23,500 in 2003.



l4 Bank supervisionaide memoire,November 3,2000
IS 35%in 1998 and 19%in 2002

The waiting list for fixed line installationwas reduced by 44 percent during the same
time period.

 5.4          The number of fixed lines peaked at 4.3 million in 2005, decreasingto about 3.8
million in 2006 as many new subscribersmoved straightto cellular telephony.
Nevertheless,by 2006, the total number of operational providers of fixed telephone
serviceson the retail market had grown to 21 providers, while the number of providers
offeringnational call services increasedto 63. Figure 5.1 shows that nearly 20 percent of
the market formerlycontrolled by Romtelecom was already supplied by alternative
providers after only three years. Both the electricity transmission utility and the railway
company have formed subsidiariesto offer telecom services using optic fiber networks
along their respective rights of way. Rom-radiocornalso launched its own telephony
servicesfor corporatecustomers,offering attractiveprices on its VOIP'~.

Figure 5.1 Trends in the public fixed line telephonemarket                                                            " " -
   "" ,--"  ".-"*-     "" """"'^  - *                  " ~ " ~ " m ~ * " * w " - " ' " ' " ~"&     "* "" "" " " - "              "**'*" "  ""'--"""e


 i                                                                                                                                                      !
 I                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                        f




>
i                                                 31,12W               Bs%JW 3'Ew12S RR%mQ                          11,313W
                                                                                                                                                     i
i
I                                     t~~$k?<'$&Rit%&!                                                       &W*V w&~&P@
                                                                                                                 p@%Fi
I                                                                                                                                                       d
i
                                 -
I
I                               -
  "-"".-,'-- --*"                                                                                                     -
                   * w w a   '       xm-*-*wm<*                  "-*-deAw-                   *                "-
                                                                                                -%  * -*+  '**   &*    H&--*-A




Source:ANRC


5.5          An additionalindicator of the rapid rate of progress in the opening up of the
telecom sector has been the growth in the number of internet serviceproviders. By 2003
the number of internetproviders had grown from negligible to 233. IEG noted that by
2006 this figure had grown hugely to 1,412and that 78 percent of the providers were
offeringbroadband (see also Annex B). VoIP became availableeven before the project
closed, and the price of international calls using voice telephonyhad decreased by



16Romanian Telecom Market Overview,Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, RomanianBusiness Digest,
2007

between 35 and 40 percent at the end of 2003 in comparisonto the previous year.
However, the huge commercial boom in mobile systems (following international trends)
went far beyond even the most optimisticpredictions (see Figure 5.2). At appraisal
(1998) the forecastwas for 1.2million subscribersby 2008, b ~by t         ~ 2007 there were
already over 17million subscribers.

    Figure 5.2 Total number of mobile telephonesewices users and penetrationrate




1             +'am-         -alirhds%%dt$p&:*mc  mca          dtt*%ymbwl%%*%
I
-%--   *m"-" wwn--x**as ~   w     ~      ~      -   ~   a-em%. ~
                                                            ~        i- xqp" * - l r x m ~ ~ ~ w m - e & * /
                                                                       ~          ,       ,      ~        ~   % ~   ~   ~   w


Source: ANRC

5.6          As the ICR points out, although there were some 6.4 million mobilephones in
use in 2003 the number of actual mobilephone users was lower (5.6 million) because
some ownershad more than one phone. In other words the mobile penetration rate
(percentageof the population with phones) was 25 percent in 2003, but as can be seen
from Figure 5.2 above, it had grow to nearly 81percent by 2006. As the market matures
the rate of increase can be expected to slacken off.

5.7          It is difficultto separatebenefits specifically attributableto the project from
those due to the implementationof GOR strategy.The project was not the principal
driving forcebehind the transformation of the telecom sector, but it did perform the role
(as the ICR puts it) of a timely "enabling instrument" to assist the GOR during this period
of continual change. Through ongoingreviews and discussion it also helped move the
project forward at a time when the EU had misgivings about the rate of progress partly
due to a change in government.The Bank also provided substantialtechnical assistance
for regulatory development,and through supportingthe appointmentof privatization
advisors.

5.8          It should be noted that despite funding a consultancy through the Japanese grant
facilityon options for privatizing Rom-radiocorn,which, strictly speaking, falls outside
the scope of the objectives of this project, this company is still fully-ownedby the state,
despiterepeatedly declared intentionsto follow through with privatizationpromises.
Rom-radiocom owns substantialmicrowave network infrastructurethat could put it in a
position to offer serious competitionto Romtelecom.

5.9       Objective ii) National Spectrum Management System: toprovide the necessary
infrastructure to maximize theproductive use of the radioj?equency spectrum and to
improvefrequency assignment criteriafor further expansion of wireless communication
servicesprovision by theprivate sector. Modestly achieved:When the ICR was prepared
in 2004 most of the main componentsof the NSMS had been installed (and were
operational),but serious deficienciesin systemperforn~ancewere still evident. This
resulted in an unsatisfactoryICR rating for this objective;this was partly because the
system was producing an unacceptablyhigh rate of falsepositive signals (indicatinga
problem existed when this was not the case), and partly because the financial and
administrativemodules were not yet in use. Moreover, the system as a whole had not
been operated and tested and the high frequency station had not been installed due to
zoning issues on the land earmarked for the equipment.These problems had largelybeen
overcome (usingown funds) by the time the IEG mission assessedthe situationin May
2008, but clearlythe substantial delays in bringing the NSMS to a fully operationalstatus
diminishedthe flow of benefits the system was intended to provide-in       the interim, some
private firms had developedat their own expense some hnctionalities that NSMS had not
been providingto ensurethat interferenceon the frequenciesthey were using was
minimized. For this reason the level of achievementis rated modest.

5.10      This said, the system was partially beneficial to the users in the interim. The
NSMS detectedmany cases of illegal spectrum use leading to appropriateactionsto
rectify the situation.The systemwas undoubtedly much more effective than the manual
system used previously, and both service operators and regulators interviewedconfirmed
that, given the enormousincrease in the use of the spectrum, an acceptablelevel of
qualitycould not have been maintained with the previous system and practices. ANRC
was ableto validatethe existing licensedatabase againstactual use, identifyunoccupied
frequencies, andthereby was ableto ease the crowdingin certainfrequencybands.
According to GICIT data in 2002 the NSMS was utilized 178times in detecting
frequency interference,3,850 times in monitoringcompliancewith license authorization,
and 6,206 times for processing license applications.More recent figureswere not
provided to the IEG team, but current figures should be much higher given the growth in
the industry.All licenses issued also now comply with the internationalprotocols for
cross-bordercooperation.

5.11      Objective iii)Support GICIT inperforming regulatoryfunctions over all
networks and services in the telecom sector. Substantiallyachieved The project
provided critical supportthrough the RDP to MOCIT and ANRC for the development of
an EU-compliant legal framework.This sectorframework laid down conditions of access
to public communications networks and interconnectionsbetween networks. It thus
enabled Romania to achieveprovisional agreement on the EU acquis communitairein
November 2002, followingwhich the Bank supported the refining of the lawpermitting
ANRC to be created and to commence operationsin September2002, some three months
before the deadline for deregulation.Therewas also a contract for SpectrumEngineering
and Management Support(SEMOS) for preparationof a spectrumpolicy and strategy
plan, the preparation of operationalprocedures, and specialized on-sitetraining. Though
delayed dueto disruptionscaused by reorganizationaland change of mandate issues, the
work was eventually substantiallycompleted.

 5.12     Capacity building envisagedunder this objectivealso took place, but in the
event was funded fromnon-Bank sources, because of the availabilityof grant funding as
opposedto loan funds. USAID, for example,provided considerabletrainingto ANRC
and MOCIT (valued at US$ 0.5 million), on the structure of regulatoryagencies, their
role in the marketplace, and required staffing. A studytour for six top regulatory officials
was also included. Specializedadvice and assistancewas alsoprovided under the EU-
PHARE program covering overall agency operations,the implicationsof econonlic
concentration and competition, accessto networks and interconnections,and facilitating
accessto facilities shared by multiple operators (such as transmissiontowers, and rights
of way). Some of these items of technical assistancemay have been carried out a little
differently than had the Bank funded them, but overallthe capacityof the agency was
still substantiallystrengthened.

Efficiency

5.13      The project should have closed on December 31,2002,but this date was
extendedto J~me30,2003 due to the proliferationof design changes. The full
implementation of the NSMS was further seriously delayed beyond loan closure because
of system operationalproblems (explained more fully in section 3), and difficultiesin
obtaining zoning approval for the high frequency station.As with other similar telecom
projects no economic rate of return was calculated,but there is no doubt that the delays
diminishedthe benefits that the system was intendedto provide. This said, however, it is
clear that it would not have been possible to properly expand the telecom industry in
Romania without the NSMS, which was clearly much superiorto the previousmanual
system. GICIT data showed that the NSMS was well utilized (seepar. 5.11 for more
details). Overall efficiency was modest.

Outcome

5.14      The overall outcome is moderately satisfactory, which takes into account the
achievement of the individualdevelopmentobjectives,together with a high rating for
relevance and a modest rating for efficiency.Although two of the development objectives
were substantiallyachieved the objectiverelated to the NSMS infrastructure,which
utilized by far the bulk of the loan, was only modestly achieved. In the case of the
training aspectsthe objectivewas achieved, but not through using Bank resources.

Risk to Development Outcome

5.15      The risk to development outcome is negligible to low. ANRCTI is functioning
effectivelyand funded independently using fees levied on the operators.Romania has
complied with the terms of accession (including requirementsin respect of telecom and
information technologies)and been admitted to the EU. It is also in full compliancewith
the requirementsof both WHO and ITU and has graduated to a level where it is highly
unlikely to reverse reforms achieved. Liberalizationof the sectorhas, moreover, brought
in several vigorous private firmscontributingsignificantcapital flows. The presence of
these firmsis likely to build popular supportfor further reform, and thus this
transformation is highly unlikely to be reversed.

Bank Performance

5.16    Quality at Entry: In generalthe project was adequately designed, although the
equipment procurement costs were overestimated resulting in an initial cancellationof
US$7.0 million. The risk of the clientusing grant funding fiom other financiersfor
technical assistance was also not mentioned. Quality at entry was on balance satisfactory
albeitmarginally so.

5.17    Quality of Supervision: During the first year, the QAG Quality of Supervision
Assessment Report rated the project as satisfactoryand there is no doubtthat the
supervisionteam tried to coordinate with other stakeholderssuch as the EU and USAID.
The assistancewith the legal regulatory framework also proceeded well for the most part.
However, after the first year the relationship between the implementingagency and the
Bank in respect of the NSMS was a difficult one. The Bank team did not succeed in
reaching an agreement on the issue of design changes, nor on the scope of supportfor the
envisioned laboratoriesand workshops. It also did not succeedin persuading the GOR to
establisha single regulator, (although in the end the GOR had to adopt this model prior to
EU accession).When problems arose during implementation the Bank was proactive,but
did not succeed in assistingthe agency to accelerate implementationprogress. When the
loan was closed only 45 percent had been expended. While some of these shortcomings
were due in part to factorsbeyond the Bank's control,project completiontook much
longer than had been planned. Bank performance during implementationwas moderately
satisfactoryand overall, Bank performance was moderately satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

5.18   During preparationthe GOR was very active and helpful. For example,the then
Minister of Communicationsplayed an active role in the project design and concurred
with the Bank inthe need for a singleregulatory agency. In this period the groundwork
for Romtelecomprivatizationwas successfullycarriedout. However, after a change in
government the commitment to a singleregulatory agency changed. For about two years
there were tensions between GICIT and MOCIT because of uncertaintiesin respect of the
mandate and regulatory architecture.This led to delays in building-up the necessary
capacityto move forward, and which led to slower projectprogress.Performance was
moderately satisfactory.

5.19   The implementing agency's (GICIT) mandate changed severaltimes during the
course of the project. It was somewhatinflexible in approach, insistingagainstBank
advice on extensivedesign changes (for which it utilized its own funds), and this
accountedin part for delays to the project. The implementing agency also changedthe
scope of the facilities for the regional laboratories and workshops. Indeed, some of the
equipmentthat had been planned for this subcomponent had been alreadypurchased
under a separatecontract (not Bank-financed). Taking into account the fact that the
implementingagency was also unable to quickly resolve deficienciesin system
performance and did not fully utilize the expertise of the project management consultants
(Teleplan),overall performance was moderately satisfactory.

5.20     The overall borrower performancewas moderately satisfactory.

        Broader IssuesArising from This Evaluation

6.1     Although differingin scopethis project is remarkably similarin design to the
TelecommunicationsSector Reform Project in 1ndia,17a project that was also recently
assessed by IEG. Both projects aimed to promote private sector investmentand
strengthenthe policy and regulatory environment. Both projects also involved the
procurement and installationof an automated spectrum management system and a
national spectrummonitoring system.

6.2     Interestingly, in both casesthe equipment supply and installationcosts were
seriously over-estimated and only 46 percent of the Indian loan and 45 percent of the
Romanian loans were disbursed.In both casesthe quality of some of the equipment
suppliedwas not acceptable,and in both casesthe projects were seriously delayed and
land acquisition or planning permissionwas a problem at some sites. There was also a
commonreluctance to fully utilize project management consultantsappointedto assist in
supervision. On the other hand in both instancesthe strengthening support given to the
policy and regulatory framework in a rapidly changing environmentwas clearly
 success^. Indeed, in circumstanceswhere the technology and costs are changing
rapidly, local expertise is available,and where there is a low incidenceof market failure,
the Bank could be more selectivewhen deciding whether to finance such physical
components.On the other hand, the emphasis on the technical assistance supportremains
effectiveand appropriate.

6.3     The implications of this feedback suggeststhat in telecom project design more
thought needs to be given to project costing, manufacturingrequirements of bidders for
the supply and installationof telecom equipment, and appropriate utilization of project
management consultants.

        Lessons

7.1    The following important lessons can be gleaned fromthe assessment of this
project:

    9 Inthetelecomsectorand intheRomaniaTelecommunicationReformand                    .
       Privatization Project, where the frontier of technology is moving at a rapid pace, it
       is advisable to build a degree of flexibilityinto project design and supervisionto
       accommodateat least some of the new applicationsthat may become possible
       during implementation.

   9 Projectdesignoftelecomprojects suchastheRomaniaTelecommunication
       Reform and Privatization Projectinvolvingequipmentprocurement and
       installation should give more attentionto risks in project cost estimation and
       assessment of bidders for the supplyand installationof telecom equipment.



"India:TelecommunicationsSectorReformTechnicalAssistance,ProjectLoan 4555-IN.

Supervisionshouldhelp ensurethat appointed project management consultants
are fully utilized.

While it is importantfor the Bankto focus on technical assistanceaspects of
telecom projects, such as support for training and for the development of the
policy and regulatory frameworks, it is also essentialto ascertainpotential support
for such componentsfrom other international financial institutions and agenciesto
eliminateduplicationof resources, as occurred in the Romania
Telecommunication Reform and PrivatizationProject.

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet


TELECOMMUNICATIONSREFORM           AND PRIVATIZATIONSUPPORT         PROJECT
(LOAN4319-RO)

Key Project Data (amountsin US$million)
                                   Appraisal     Actual.or       Actual as % of
                                   estimate   current estimate appraisal estimate

Total projectcosts

Loan amount

Co-financing

Cancellation


Project Dates
                                        Original                  Actual

Negotiations

Board approval

Signing

Effectiveness

Closing date


Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                             Actual/Latest Estimate
         Stage of Project Cycle
                                     N; Staff weeks             US$1'0001

IdentificationlPreparation

AppraisaIlNegotiation

Supervision

ICR

Total

Mission Data
                           No. of       Specializations           Performance Rating
                          persons        represented
                                                              Implementation Development
                                                                Progress      Objective

Identification1Preparation

          1211996            3   Team Leader (1); Telecom
                                 Specialist (1); Spectrum
                                 Consultant(1)

           211997            4   Team Leader (I); Telecom
                                 Sector Specialist (1);
                                 RegulatorySpecialist (1);
                                 PrivatizationSpecialist (1);



                             5   Team Leader (I);
                                 PrivatizationSpecialist (1);
                                 Telecom Specialist(1);
                                 LegalCounsel (1);
                                 Operations Officer (I)

Supervision

        1111998              2   ProjectTeam Leader (I);           S
                                 LegalCounsel (1)

                             3   ProjectTeam Leader (I);           S
                                 RegulatoryConsultant (1);
                                 Privatization Expert (I)

                             3   ProjectTeam Leader (I);           S
                                 Legal Counsel (1); Telecom
                                 Engineer (1)

                            2    ProjectTeam Leader (1);           S
                                 OperationsOfficer (I)

                            4    ProjectTeam Leader (1);           S
                                 LegalIRegulatorySpecialist
                                 (1); Project Officer (1);
                                 Spectrum Consultant(I)

                            5    ProjectTeam Leader (1);           S
                                 LegalIRegulatorySpecialist
                                 (1); Telecom Specialist(1);
                                 Project Officer (1);
                                 Spectrum Consultant(I)

                            4    ProjectTeam Leader (I);
                                 Spectrum Consultant(I);
                                 Project Officers (2)

                            2    ProjectTeam Leader (I)
                                 LegalCounsel (1)

    09/21I2001    4  ProjectTeam Leader (1);       S    S
                     Legal Counsel(1);
                     Spectrum Consultant (1);
                     ProjectOfficers (2)

    0511612002    1  FrequencySpectrum             S    S
                     Specialist (1)

    06/24/2002    4  ProjectTeam Leader (I);       S    S
                     LegallRegulatory Specialist
                     (1); Project Officer (1);
                     Spectrum Consultant (I)

    09/24/2002    5  ProjectTeam Leader (1);       S    S
                     LegallRegulatory Specialist
                     (1); Project Officer (1);
                     Spectrum Consultant (1);
                     LegalCounsel(1)

    0411I12003    2  LegalCounsel(1); Radio        S    S
                     FrequencySpecialist (1)

ICR

    1111412003    1  Consultant (I)                S    S

Annex B. Romanian National Regulatory Authority for
Communications and Information Technology: Statistics



Tabje 8-3. Active 9e~vEceproviders as @fDecember 33, 2806



!". I~krn%fmm&      ...,                                                                                                                                                                                         1642
     *                                                                   "."...",--".~.-".-q--.-"..."-,"-.*--*""-----.>                "-""
!      k dlf8:-. stlca
        ,..-.                                                                                              -            -                 ,-.-                  I,,~.-                                            .32
?w~..-*            rx "        ..,...".""-*.,*-,,*.<*                                             <...,...
                                                                    ...rxx..-,,^,,,        .;*,                .>-            -,. *..,",-     , -,uw"*.-"^xi            ^"* ..,,                    ,.,..+-                                                         .*
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ^"  -rxr^r.^lrmr%m     "- -,ri>,>*-
j      &                                  nMfs                                                                                                                                                                    $5
*".   .. ..*.                                                                 ""                                                                                                                                       ----*-     ~
I;." k v i
    . ."...
       T&@l,                   .,*...    *73ri~-~dseHi~j%d,!                                                                                                                                                                                                        J
                                          ,.                                                                    .             .  ,        .          ,                                                      .            .                        ,,.*,  .",_..",_I
                     *,.%                ,                                                                                               , ,  "               , ,          , ,               " .              " "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                mf                               "


                                            ,,e.sw>,,,...........,,.             ....-,,...    .,-,..... .....-<... ,,.-,,,..-                  ,.,,           &                                                   .-,;
          x,~,A,~,w      ,,,,,,      ,,,,                                                                                                               ..,,,,
                                                                                                                                         ,,&UW."                  **>>. ,,m,                     ,,.-"<...,-.--.,.            .*^rxr*xrrax r,rl,xx ',,w
                                                                                                                                                                             .,,A \\vi,,,A,b,    ~                         *,r


Source: Af4RC




Figure S-3 Camparison of the weight sf vaice traffie originating in pubfic
fixed networks and public moblle networks, betw@@n                                                                                                                                                           2003 and 2806




Source: BNRC

Figure 8-2Number of lines farfixed telaphone services PenetraEfon rate




Figure B-3 Evolutlan of the number of ~ctiveproviders of Internet
BCC~SSssarwices
r                                                                                   -
  .,,< %w-"    -*----%*mm    n w - - - " , , ~ ~ " " " - *    '-"*"-wd7wmsh    " -,-


i




L

Source: WNRC

Figure S-4 S k r u d u ~of the totsf number of fnternel access
                        e
connectisns, itemired by ~ u g p o ~December 51, 2006
                                     - t     ---"---
r----                                                       *---."-
                                                                       I




i-_--__-___          ----
Source: WHRC




Figure B-5 Penetraei~nrates of the Intarnet access connactions per 100
inhabltsnt~accoadlng Po the bandwldtk used          -
F                                                                      I


