d   J/g     sw(.    K v            //  / f 
D)ocurnent of
The World Bank
fOR OFFIRIAl I SC ONLY
Report No. 12766-ALB
STAEF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 18, 1994
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withe4t World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Lek
US$1.00 = Lek 100
(May 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YE'AR
Januarv I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEE          Central and Eastern Europe
CY'          Calendar Year
EU           European Union
ICB          International Coripetitiv, Piddine
IDA          International Developmint Association
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MOE          Ministry of Education
MOF          Miniistry of Finance and Economy
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PI           Pedagogic Institute
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SLCB         Simplified Local Competitive Bidding
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Albania has four levels of government: the center, the
region (prefecture), the district, and within each dist-ict
the municipality and commune.



FOR OPFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Coments
Paxe
Ciedit and Project Sunmmary    ...........................   i
I. CONTEXT AND RATIONALE ...........................   I
A. Status of the Education System   ..........                .................    2
B. Sector Governance  ...........................    4
C. Early Restructuring Efforts  .......             .............. ......    S
D. Sector Priorities ...........................   6
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement ...... ...............................  8
EI. THE PROJECT               ...........................  10
A. Project Objectives  ...........................   10
B. Project Description ...........................   10
C. Environmental Impact ...........................   13
m. COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION                        ............        ..............   14
A. Project Costs  ............................................                                  14
B. Project Financing .                                   .                                      17
C. Project Management and  Implementation ..................................... 18
D. Project Procurement Arrangements ...........                .....................  23
E. Disbursement  ............................................   26
F. Status of Preparation ..........................................   27
TV. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ..........................................   28
A. Benefits ............................................. 28
B. Risks ............................................. 28
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMIENDATION  .....................  29
This report is based on fndings of an apprisal mission which visited Atbania in lanuary 1994. The mission comprised Tenice
Bassler (Task Manager, EC2Ht); Leonardo Concepcion (Sr. Inplementation Specialist, EC1I2HR); Csaba Feher (Research
Assistant. EC2HU); and consultants Alberto Zuniga-Wager (Archiect); Regna Kyle (Curriculum, Assessment and Teacher
Taining); and Johp Atkdns (Manage=m and Finance). The mission's work was supported by Elira Sakiqi (Liaison Officer) at
the Albania Resident Mission. This report also incoiporames the analytical work of Sue Benynian (Education Specialist). Zita
Debreczd (EC2H) and Ross Pavis (ECI/2HR) were responsible for document processing. The Peer Reviewers are: Eileen
Nkwanp (AF4PH); Vasiliou Demetriou (EAIPH); and Arvil van Adams (ESP). Andrew Rogerson (EC2HU) and Ralph W.
Harbison (EC1/2HR) are tde supervising anagers. Kemal Dervis (EC2DR) is te Country Director.
s  document has a resicted dismiWon and may be used by recipies only in the pediw  afthur
offlcial duties Its conten  may not otherw   be disclosed without Wol  1B   au am



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Em
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT ......................  14
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE .16
Table 3.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT/SOURCE OF FINANCING                       17
Table 3.4: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY EXPENIY'TURE CATEGORY/SOURCE OF
FINANCING .18
Table 3.5: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .23
Annexes
Annex 1: Basic Country Data .30
Annex 2:  School Infrastructure and Rehabilitation  .31
Annex 3:  Summary of Capacity Building Activities .35
Annex 4: Detailed Cost Tables .38
Annex 5: Procurement Plan .44
Annex 6: Disbursement Schedule .45
Annex 7: Implementation Schedule .47
Annex 8:  Project Monitoring  . .................. ....   54
Annex 9: Supervision Plan ....   68
Annex 10: Materials in Project File .69
OManizational Charts
Chart 1:  Structure of Education System .70
Chart 2:  Governance of Education System .71
Chart 3:  Money Flows in Education System .73
Chart 4:   Organization of Ministry of Education and Staff Numbers in Each Unit .74
Chart 5:  Organization of Pedagogic Institute .75
MAP:       IBRD No. 25410



ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Credit and Proiet S&wnaarv
BORROYER:    Albania
BENEFICARI   Ministry of Education (MOE)
AMOUNT:          SDR 6.9 million (US$9.6 million equivalent)
TERMS:           Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
PROJECT          The Project will help the Government to sustain delivery of basic education
OBJECTIVES:   services during Albania's difficult economic transition and to build institutional
capacity for planning, management and quality assurance of education in an
increasingly decentralized system. Its specific objectives are to:
(a) accelerate rehabilitation of damaeed and dilaRidated school facilities in
Albania's 37 districts; and
(b) build capacity of key sector institutions to stimulate efficient use of fiscal
resources and assure quality of learning outcomes.
PROJECT          The Project has two parts.
DESCRIPTION:
Part A: School Rehabilitation (US$10.3 million'"): The project will intensify
implementation of the Government's school rehabilitation program. The Project
will finance: (i) school renair (about 65% of base cost) to complete repairs in
approximately 237 selected schools in all districts, covering about 20% of net
classroom repair requirements, and furniture and equipment needs; and (ii) school
replacement (about 35 % of base cost) to complete all substitution requirements in
three selected districts, covering about 38 schools or 10% of net nationwide
school replacement requirements for buildings and furniture and equipment. The
Project will finance the civil works, school furniture, and service fees for local
engineers and architects.
Part B: Key Sector Capacities (US$1.0 million11): The Project will provide
training, technical assistance and equipment to assist the MOE and Pedagogic
Institute in: (i) developing Rlannina and management capability through
computerization of education information in three pilot districts and training of
MOE staff; (ii) developing the qualitv assurance functions of the Pedagogic
1/ Iludes contngecies and taxes.



- ii -
Institute by building a local knowledge base on learning assessment, teacher
credentialling and approaches to improving learning outcomes; and (iii) beginning
a process of textbook aualitv imnrovement by developing a policy that will
facilitate private sector involvement in textbook provision and providing training
in publishing and financial management. The Project will also establish a Project
Coordination Unit for major externally funded activities in school rehabilitation
and capacity building.
BENE.TS:         The benefits of this first phase of IDA assistance will derive chiefly from
rehabilitation of facilities. Functional buildings and classrooms newly
refurbished with windows, heaters and basic furnuture will help to preserve
essential educational services. Improved facilities will remove a major
disincentive for school attendance and impediment to teaching and learning. The
capacity-building activities will begin the longer-term process of developing the
professional capability of central level institutions and helping the Government to
better manage the activities of external donors offering assistance for education.
Development of a textbook provision policy and an approach to restracturing the
organization of publishing, printing and distributing textbooks is expected to lead
to greater involvement of the private sector in educational publishing.
RISK:             The principai risk lies in the capability of the MOE and its district level agencies
to carry out quickly an intensive school rehabilitation program in Albania's
present conditions and with inputs from several major donors. Even if local
institutions are well-organized and technical preparation is thorough, the
country's severely handicapped transport, communications and bank' ,
infrastructure, and center versus local administration frictions may pose
formidable obstacles. This risk is mitigated somewhat by MOE's experience in
1993 with implementation of school rehabilitat.on with budgetary funds, most of
which was undertaken via local competitive contracting. hnplementation
mechanisms for IDA-fi;nbnced school rehabilitation ;Lre being rooted in existing
institutions and local procedures. Albania's major external partners in education-
-IDA, European Union, Soros Foundation and UNICEF-are collaborating to
.q oid potential duplication of effort, to be mindful of local absorptive capacity,
and to develop jointly procurement and implementation processes that are
effective under local conditions. An additional risk is that rehabilitated buildings
could fall prey to pilfering and neglect, as in the past. Selection of schools to be
covered under the Project will favor communities where there is already evidence
of school security arrangements and regular maintenance. IDA will also review
annually with the Government the arrangements for financing preventive
maintenance in the education system.



- iii -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ."
Local   Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million------
1. School Rehabilitation
A. Repair                                                     4.0       1.6       5.6
B. Replacement                                                2.2       0.9       3.1
Sub-total                                      6.2       2.5        8.7
II. Key Sector Capacities
A. Planning and Management Information                        0.0       0.2       0.2
B. Quality Assurance (Peda>Jgic Institute)                    0 1       0.1       0.2
C. Textbook Improvement                                       0.0       0.1       0.1
D. Project Coordination                                       0.1       0.3       0.4
Sub-total                                      0.2       0.7        0.9
Total Base Costs                               6.4       3.2        9.6
Physical Contingencies                                      0.6        0.3       0.9
Price Contingencies                                         0.6       0.2        0.8
Total Project Costs                            7.6       3.7       11.3 21
FINANCING PLAN
Government                                                  1.7        0.0       1.7 21
IDA                                                         5.9        3.7       9.6
Total Financing Requirements                   7.6       3.7       11.3 v'
1/ Figures may total exactly due to rounding.
2/ Includes taxes of US$0.8 million equi-.alent.



-iv -
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMEI Tf (US$ Million)
IDA PY                                       1       2        3      4         5
Annual                                      0.3      2.5     2.9    2.5       1.4
Cumulative                                  0.3      2.8     5.7    8.2       9.6
Cumulative as % of total                    3        28      60      86       100
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RtETURN:                   Not applicable
POVERTY CATEGORY:                           Not applicable
MAP:                                        IBRD 25410



ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
1. CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1.1     Albania is struggling to preserve achievements in education that are remarkable for a
country of its income level. Prior to World War 11, an estimated 85 percent of the country's
population was illiterate. In the late 1940s, the Government undertook to universalize primary
education and, in the 1950s, to develop secondary schooling and establish Albania's first institutions
for h:gher leaming. By the period of political and economic transition in 1991, Albapia's e:4; ;cation
system resembled other centrally planned European economies in its structure and universal Jasic
education coverage. Today. almost 80 percent of the population is literate, having completeti at least
four years of school.
1.2     Time, poverty and economic transition aie taking a toll on the education system. Most
school buildings are at least forty years old and have had no preventive maintenance. During the
social turmoil of 1O90-92, about one-third of school facilities (nearly 1600 buildings) were badly
damaged by vandalism, occupied by homeless families, or, in some cases, burned beyond use 3n
1990, the system lost 132,000 students-or 14 percent of total enrollments. Losses from secondary
school are heaviest, with enrollment declining from 79 percent of 14-17 year olds in 1989 to 45
percent in 1992. Pre-school enrollments also declined sharply, from 57 percent of the age-relevant
population in 1989 to 36 percent in 1992. Decrease in demand stems from youth's inability to
envision how middle school (largely agricultural vocational programs designed to serve an economic
structure that was predominately state farms) will increase their economic options; rural families who
have acquired land and keep children in the fields; unemployed mothers who no longer need the
caretaking services of preschool; the cost to parents of keeping children in school; and family
emigration to other countries. So far, primary school enrollments-the system's base-remain high,
although there has been some deterioration from universal enrollment in the 1980s to 94 percent of the
age cohort in 1992. Enrollments and school attendance at primary level are affected largely by
unusable, unheated, or poorly equipped facilities. Moreover, schooling has suffered in recent years
from shortages of even basic books and learning materials. The system is also losing an unknown
number of teachers who are emigrating for economic reasons and are generally replaced with
individuals of lower qualification.
1.3     Albania's economic situation has important implications for the education and training
system. At present, severely constrained public finances cannot simultaneously operate the education
system and address all the urgent and widespread school rehabilitation needs. The current stock of
skills and knowledge of the labor force-and the schooling system ..'hich helped shape it--still reflect
Albania's economic and political past and its extreme isolation fro,. .,e outside world. Aside from
the emerging service sector and privatized agricultural activity, Albania's future industry and
occupational profiles are generally unclear, making it difficult for the Government and individuals to
make informed investment decisions about work-related education ard training. In this context,
Albania is working to keep intact the delivery of high-quality general education-the foundation of a
well-prepared and flexible labor force--and to begin realigning technical and higher education to the
country's new environment. The sections below report on the status of the education system,
education governance structures, early sector restructuring efforts. key sector priorities, and the
rationale for the proposed operation.



-2 -
A. Status of The Education System
1.4      The present education system comprises: non-compulsory preschools for 3-6 year olds;
compulsory eight-year primary schools for 6-14 year olds, divided into junior primary (grades 14)
and senior irimary (grades 5-8); the four-year high school system for 14-18 year olds, compulsory
until age 16: and the higher education system of universities and institutes (see Chart 1). Students,
teachers, schnol buildings. curricula and learning materials. and time are the standard inputs to
educational systems. Most of these are problematic for Albania's educationa! system tor shortage,
quality, or efficiency reasons.
1.5      Students. Enrollments, which totalled about 755,000 in 1992/93, i-icreased at all levels from
1980-1990 and then declined at all but the university levels. The most precipitous declines were at
the preschool and secondary levels. Preschool enrollments, which increased about 40 percent
between 1980 and 1990, were onlv about 88 percent of their 1980 levels by 1992. Declines in
secondary vocational education accounted entirely for the decline at the secondary level, the 1992
vocational secondary enrollments being at 32 percent of their 1980 levels. These vocational losses are
rational individual and institutional responses to major shifts in the Albanian economy. Primary
school enrollmrents, which have been at about 100 percent of the 6-13 year old population for some
years, declined to 98 percent in 1991 and to 94 percent in 1992. The 1993 July school examinations
show systematically higher failure rates, at all grades, than in 1992. As a percent of the age-relevant
population, rural enrollments markedly lag urban enrollments at the preschool and secondary levels,
but are about the same at the primary level. Girls are about as likely as boys to be enrolled in
primnary, secondary, and postsecondary education. Albania's universities enroll only about 7 percent
of the age-relevant group, compared with the OECD average of 15 percent.
1.6      Teachers. In terms of the educational qualifications of the system's current teaching force,
94 percent of preschool teachers have only a high school degree. About half of primary school
teachers have only a high school degree and thus do not meet the Ministry of Education's (MOE)
current requirement of a college degree from a pedagogic prograrn. The gap is greatest for junior
primary (grades 1-4) teachers, where 81.4 percent have only a high school degree. At the senior
primary level (grades 5-8), 30.6 percent have only a high school degree. At the secondary level, the
percent with only a high school degree is 4.6. About 94 percent have the university degree; of these,
only an estimated two-thirds have the required degree in subject matter, the remainder havir1g a
pedagogical degree.
1.7      Student:teacher ratios declined at all levels from 1980-1992. In 1992, student:teacher ratios
were 16:1 irn preschool, 17:1 in primary, 12:1 in secondary and 19:1 in higher education. Relative to
1980, 1992 preschool ratios have declined by six students; primary ratios, by four students; and
secondary ratios, by 18 studernts. The ratio in vocational schools declined particularly sharply, by 28
students to, only 8:1 in 1992. This declining efficiency stems partly from decreasing enrollments,
although there has also been hiring since 1990 which has increased the absolute number of teachers at
primary and secondary level.' University student:teacher ratios have increased by six students as
access to higher education has expanded. It is difficult to generalize on class size from these ratios,
1/   If the 1992 system were operatng with the 1985 student:teacher ratios-la year with internationally acceptable ratios at most levels.l it
could eliminate 1524 teachers at the preschool level, 4282 teachers at the primary level, and 4843 teachers at the secondary level (the
majority being vocational teachers), for a total reduction in force of 10,649 teachers. Assuming a 1993-94 monthly cost per teacher
of 3,725 lek, the system could save an annual labor bill of 476,010,300 lek, or US$4.7 million.



-3 -
as there are conditions of overcrowding in some urban and town schools, and very small enrollments
and multi-grade teaching in some village schools. The total number of teachers expected to retire
between 1993 and 1999 across all levels is 8,474, which is equivalent to 15 percent of total teachers
in 1992. MOtE is taking additional measures, beginning in September 1994, to increase effictency of
student:teacher ratios in schools by raising the :ninimurn numbers of pupils per teacher per class, and,
especially in rural areas, expanding the use of collective classes. Layoffs will be concentrated on
unqualified teachers. where positions can be eliniinated without reducing vital education services.
1.8      School Infrastructure. A census of the 1992-93 physical plant shows ail infrastructure
deteriorated to the point where it impedes learning. Problemiis are wide-ranging--broken or nmissing
windows, collapsing roofs and walls, non-functioning or non-existent sanitation facilities, and missing
or broken heating equipment. The age of the infrastructure, the lack of preventive maintenance
programs. and vandalism during the transition period from December 1990 to March 1992 resuited in
60 percent of the basic and secondary school system's total classroems needing either repair or
complete replacement: 38 percent of the preschool clas.rooms, 57 percent of the classrooms in grade
14 schools, 70 percent of the 8-year school classrooms, and 51 percent of the secondary classrooms.
The estimated cost of rehabilitating school buildings, furniture, and equipment of the school system to
minimum standards is US$80.8 million. Thc MOE FY93 budget included US$3.7 million for
investment purposes, out of the State's total investment budget of US$85 million. The Mnistry of
Finance and Economy (MOF) expects planned investments to increase during 1994-96, and is
increasing MOE's investment allo^ation to about US$5.0 million annually, beginnirg in 1994. Annex
2 gives a detailed description of rehabilitation requirements.
1.9      Curriculum and Learning Materials. For basic and secondary education, Albania has
national curricular requirements, but in the very limited form of core textbooks used nationwide, as
opposed to broader curricular frameworks that can be interpreted through multiple textbooks. In
recent years, there has been a severe lack of even these basic textbooks, as a result of paper shortages
and rising costs of inputs, as well as transitional difficulties in shifting responsibilities and cextbook
financing among the Ministries of Industry and Culture and MOE in publishing, printing and
distributing textbooks. IDA and the donor community have worked closely with MOE to resolve
these problems-apparently with some success, as basic textbooks have been supplied to students
earlier and in greater numbers fcr the 1993-94 academic year.' MOE is now the sole administrator
of the textbook subsidy and is increasingly organizing textbook provision on a contractual basis with
publishers and printers, including state-owned, private and about-to-be-privatized enterprises. The
medium-term priorities are consolidating a textbook provision policy, improving textbook quality,
creating workbooks separate from textbooks, and developing supplementary curricular guides for
teachers. There are few real libraries in schools; facilities that exist for this purpose are often empty
or contain unusable material. Even before the early 1990s, laboratories were woefully inadequate for
instructional purposes; during the disturbances, equipment in schools was often looted.
1.10     Time. One of the best predictors of school-generated learning is time-on-task, a function of
the number of classroom hours focused on learning and of hours spent on homework. At the primary
level (grades 1-8), the yearly number of instructional hours for Albanian students is less than that for
21    As of Januaty 1993, some 30 core textbook titles, or about 15 percent of total titles, had not reached the schools at all, compared with
Januasy 1994, by which time there were only four titles outstanding. The adequacy of numbers of copies produced is not known. as
a secondary market in textbooks is also operating. The MOE is working toward full provision of basic texts for school year 1994195.



-4 -
students from several European and Asian countries, but falls within the range of these countries at
the secondary level. Albanian school children are assigned an average of 2.6 hours of homework per
day even in first grade; by age 9 they have more homework than the average for at least 79 percent
of comparator nations: and by age 13, they are assigned more homework than the average for at least
56 percent of the comparison nations. It is not known to what extent the deteriorated facilities,
overcrowding and multiple shift arrangements in some schools, and textbook shortages impact on
time-on-task.
1.11    Financing. At USS42.0 million, the MOE's share of the State's totai FY93 budget was 8.4
percent. While non-government (especially parochial) schools are emerging, the percent of education
costs fit!:..ced irivately is still negligible. The MOE has minor cost recovery on secondary school
and university dormitories, full recovery on the costs of university textbooks, and partial recovery on
the costs of textbooks at other levels. Teacher salaries and benefits represent 67 percent of the total
MOE budget. Unit costs remained relatively constant from 1980-1990, jumping at all levels in the
educational system in 1991 because the budgets for each level increased from 1990 to 1991 and
enroliinents generalty declined. Nonetheless, the 1991 unit costs were still very low in absolute
terms: 97C lek per child per year at the preschool level (US$39.04 at thu 1991 exchange rate of 25
lek:$1); 684 lek (US$27.36) per child at the primary level: 1032 lek (US$41.28) per academic
secondary student; 2287 lek (US$91.48) per vocational secondary student; and 3497 lek (US$139.90)
per university student. Albania's FY93 education expenditures as a percent of the central budget are
consistent with percents of income comparable countries in 1991: Malawi (8.8 percent); Sri Lanka
(8.3 percent), and Indonesia (9.1 percent). As a percent of GDP, Albania's MOE budget of 3.7
percent was 85 percent of the average of 22, mostly OECD, countries in the academ; year 1986-87.
B. Sector Governance
1.12    Legal Framework. The Albanian constitution defines the citizens' right to education: (a) no
one shall be denied at least eight years of education paid for by the State; (b) private schooling is
allowed; (c) higher education is open to all, but conditioned on the app! cant's learning achievements;
and (d) the universities' autonomy is guaranteed. Further specifying the legal framework are two new
laws, a draft framework law for the education system and a separate law, just recently adopted by
Parliament, on the higher education system. The draft framework law defines the rights and
obligations of the public, MOE, teachers and private school providers. (Delay in the passage of the
framework law will not affect the objectives and mechanisms established under the proposed Project.)
The law on higher education defines the governance structure for the system and the academic
freedoms and autonomy of the universities.
1.13    Structur . The system's current school goverr -.ce structure consists of five levels: the
MOE; the prefecture (which was created in 1993 but wi". functions yet to be specified); MOE's
district-level agents (Deparanent of Educaion and Economic Center); the district council, with its
offices of Finance and Education; and the local level of the urban municipalities and rural communes
(see Charts 2 and 3). The schools are a sixth potential level of governance, but school headmasters
and teachers seem to have virnually no oecision-making powers. The MOE currently maintains
substantial control over the universities and institutes.
1.14    Ministry of Education. Structurally, the MOE is a central figure in the system. MOE has



about 80 employees at its Tirana office (see Chart 4). In Albania's new environment and under
provision of the draft legislation, the MOE's role is to design strategy, set priorities, establish
standards for the performance of the system and assure their achievement, and insure access to
education under the law. The MOE will also need to lead the important educational governance
debate that must occur in order to sort out optimal roles and responsibilities for the Ministry, its
district education offices, the economic centers, the education offices of the regional councils, the
mayors of municipalities aud commnunes, and school principals. At least in the immediate and
medium term, it is also likely to assume the role of coordinating and managing donor assistance in
education.
1.15    Pedagogic Institute (see Chart 5). MOE's Pedagogic Institute (PI) now has national
curricular and teacher retraining responsibilities, but is aiming to broaden its current technical
functions to assume responsibility to: (a) develop modem curricular frameworks, through a multi-
year process of designing curricula that reflect current knowledge and best pedagogic practice; (b)
start designing national assessments of learning in the context of a national discussion about education
standards; (c) begin designing teacher, administrator, and school inspector credentialling processes;
and (d) design curricula for teacher, administrator, and inspector in-service training that alter both
trainees' knowledge and practice.
C. Earlv Restmeturing Efforts
1.16    As in other post-socialist countries, major realignment is needed in the medium term in
Albania's educational programs. While the sector's emergency needs are receiving due prominence,
some early restructuring efforts, or at least their conceptualization, have begun at the various levels of
education. The MOE has recently decided to form a Council on Education Reform and Management,
comprised of directors of the MOE and Pedagogic Institute and advisors from outside MOE. to help
better integrate and advance sector restructuring efforts.
1.17    Preschool. In consultation with UNICEF, MOE has designed a three year plan being
implemented from 1993-1995. Its objective is to begin improving the educational quality of the
preschool system. The plan's primary components are: (a) rehabilitation of the preschool physical
plant (repossession, reconstruction, or repair of 790 preschool facilities); (b) retraining preschool
teachers, using a "cascade" retraining method (creating a national corps of nine preschool experts,
who in turn train about 100 trainers at the district level, who in tum train teachers at the school
level); (c) purchase of furniture, supplies, and educational materials key to preschool educational
programs; (d) setting up a small network of model preschools to diffuse good practices to the total
system; and (e) shifting the pre-service training of pre-school teachers from the pedagogical high
schools to the universities.
1.18    Privy School. Given the costs of repairing the physical plant of elementary and eight-
year schools, crisis rehabilitation needs will continue into the medium-term. These are the focus of
the proposed Project. In addition to facilities upgrading, though, MOE has been removing the
ideological influence on content of education by organizing 'emergency" rewriting of texts, especially
in the social sciences, largely within the existing curriculum framework. The MOE and Pedagogic
Institute envision completion in 1996 of a revised curricular framework that will facilitate production
of textbooks and teacher guides, along with teacher retraining to introduce instruction that is more



-6 -
child-centered and to acquaint teachers with the new curricula.
1.19    Secondarv School. MOE has developed a four-pronged approach to development of
secondary education: (a) increase the number of four-year secondary academic schools (general
education) from 60 to 150, thus shifting resources from the vocational to the academic component of
the system; (b) retain the 450 agricultural vocational schools until students currently enrolled
graduate, and then convert or replace them with 20 two-year agricultural schools that focus on the
crops and animals most appropriately raised in each region; (c) convert the non-agricultural vocational
schools into about 40 schools, with one or two schools concentrating on each industry selected as key
to the Albanian economy; and (d) with the Ministry of Labor, provide worker retr=ning using MOE
facilities and teachers, the objective being to couple the substance of initial vocational training and
adult retraining more closely together and to increase MOE's use of its facilities and teachers. Within
(a), the MOE is seeking to update and strengthen the content of general education. One of the highest
MOE planning priorities-prior to any major investment in technical secondary schools--is examining
options for organizing, resourcing and implementing (c), which entails difficult decisions on the
structure and qualifications of secondary school teachers, school conversion and location,
dormitory/transport arrangements, and identification of the program areas in which secondary
technical education will be developed.
1.20    Higher Education. Albania now has seven universities and two institutes for a total
enrollment of 32,600 (1992). In addition to the University of Tirana, Tirana Polytechnic and the
Agriculture University in Tirana, four regional teacher training institutes were converted to
universities, although their missions are still being defined. The major effort in this sector has been
to expand access by increasing student intake. A national university entrance examination was just
introduced. Universities are rethinking their curricular and faculty structures, especially in economics
and law where there is greatly increased demand, and in other programs needing substantial updating.
Prior to major donor investment in the higher education system, beyond "relief" assistance to sustain
university operations and fellowships for faculty development in disciplines most affected by the
isolation and ideology of the past, it will be necessary to clarify the missions of the newly converted
regional universities and the implications of the new legislation on higher education for university
management and financing.
D. Sector Priorities
1.21    The MOE is beginning to move beyond "coping" with transition to a more strategic
approach to management of sector resources and setting of priorities for the near, medium and long
term. The following have emerged as sector priorities in the dialogue between the Government and
IDA.
1.22    Protecting the Base. The education system's most urgent need is rehabilitating the physical
plant for all levels of tLe system. Given limited resources for rehabilitation, the priority in the
near term is rightly given to inputs in primary schools, where enrollments appear su;tainable and
where relatively less restructuring of education programs is required. Rehabilitation investment for
secondary and higher education and pre-schools can be intensified later, once policy, locational and
curicular frameworks are clearer (see paras. 1.17 and 1.20). New buildings and supplies alone are
unlikely to rescue enrollments and ensure quality education in these subsectors. In keeping with dhe



-7 -
focus on rehabilitation, the MOE and district Education Departments need to be able to adjust the size
and even the structure of the teaching force to take account of large enrollment losses. Realistically,
the declines in secondary school enrollments are not likely to be recovered quickly, as the shift away
from agricultural vocational programs toward more general education and relevant technical education
cannot be accomplished immediately. Albania has been protecting its education base. In both 1992
and 1993, the Government put almost 60 percent of its education budget into primary and pre-school
and double the percent into secondary education than into the university sector (13 and 26 percent,
respectively, in 1993).
1.23     Assuring Ouality. Albania's education system has few well-developed, formal mechanisms
and very limited up-to-date professional experience for assessing and assuring the quality of its
education system.3 Quality assurance (e.g., through national assessments of learning, school-leaving
examinations, teacher credentialling requirements, participation in inernational assessments of
learning, and accreditation of private schools) will be es3ential under the new curriculum framework
and _lassroom environment of more diverse pedagogy and educational materials that are envisaged in
Albania. A key mediun- and long-teTrm task for the MOE and Pedagogic Institute is to develop and
refine quality assurance mechanisn,s. If these institutions do not assume responsibility for the
functions that are uniquely those of the center, parts of the system will drift or fragment. Other parts
will pursue individual directions that may or may not be in the national interest. The hard, sustained
technical work that is needed to restructure curricula and set up trusted quality assurance mechanisms
will either not occur, will occur very inefficiently, or will not be effectively used within the system.
1.24     Building Professional Capacitv. As the role of the center shifts, governance structures
decentralize, and education restructuring advances, it will be critical that professional capacities in
management and technical aspects uf education are developed. Development of leadership and
management capability in the MOE is essential. This will entail not only upgrading of peoples' skills
and knowledge, and new technology and tools for planning and management, but also exposure and
practical experience with mechanisms for "democratic" consultation, consensus-building, policy
analysis, and other features of management in a more decentralized education system. The Pedagogic
Istitute is the key central institution supporting education reform through curriculum development,
teacher retraining, the training of educational administrators, development of teacher credentialling,
and learning assessments. A serious staff development effort is needed in this institution. The
Institute faces an enormous task with scarce resources and without the knowledge base needed on
child and adolescent development, the technical issues that surround learning assessment design, and
the pioneering work in cognitive sciences on how people learn most effectively.
1.25     Streamrlining Governance. Within its decentralization effort, Albania faces serious questions
about the governance of its education system and needs to place high priority on rationalizing
administrative structures. Unclear, confusing, and therefore inefficient lines of authority and
responsibility are inevitable when a country is changing political systems, and presumably will be
short-lived. However, it will be important for the medium-term to resolve issues of governance
3/   An education system has five quality checkpoints: (a) selection and management of providers, such as the pedagogic
institute, textbook publishers. teacher training programs, and construction firms; (b) incoming qualy assurance for all
inputs, such as teachers, curricula, and students: (c) in-process quality management, such as periodic inspection of
schools; (d) outgoing quality assurance, such as learning assessments; and (e) reactive and proactive assurance that the
system is meedng/exceeding its goals, such as institutionalized relationships with education's 'clients', such as parents,
taxpayers, or employers, to 'sense' the need for change.



efficiency, an optimal allocation of functional authorities among levels to meet the system's goals, the
role of the private sector in delivery of education services, and the clarification of new institutional
relationships at the university level. In schooling, the number of governance layers needs to be
streamlined and functional responsibilities clearly thought through.4
1.26     Developing International Cooperation and External Funding. If well spent, and if targeted
on the system's physical plant, external financing can close a substantial part of the gap in Albania's
emergency needs. Donor commnitments in funding and goods for education in Albania are potentially
so substantial (see para. 1.29) that it is incumbent on the MOE to make as effective use of then, as
possible. This means: acting on clear immediate, medium-term, and long-tern priorities; quickly
developing effective structures for managing donor assistancc; and establishing high standards and
transparent, impartial, and enforced processes for purchasing the goods and senrices with donor
grants and loans.
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.27     Preventing the collapse of the base of the education pyramid is critical to enst're short-term
political sustainability of transition and to shore up Albania's long-term growth prospects. The labor
force entrants of the year 2005 are already enrolled, or should be. The Government and donor
community are attempting to respond, but intermittent, piecemeal efforts, and local lack of experience
with implementation of external assistance are hindering sector-wide progress. There is an urgent
need for careful planning and staged, flexible implementation. The Albanian ecornomy and strained
government budget cannot afford poorly designed investments. School refurbishing priorities must be
carefully determined, and based on explicit tradeoffs between small, geographically distributed
schools and larger, concentrated schools with associated transport and/or dormitory costs. Of donors
active in Albania, IDA has by far the greatest experience in providing sustained support to countries
in each of these areas.
1.28     Core elements of IDA's country assistance strategy for Albania, discussed by the Board on
September 14, 1993, are the "rescuing" of basic public services and capacity-building of indispensable
government agencies. Consistent with this strategy, the proposed Project combines a quick-response
approach to urgent school rehabilitation needs with limited, focused training and technical assistance
aimed at building the capacity of sector institutions in strategic policy and program management.
During project preparation, IDA financed inputs for education through the Critical Imports Project
(US$1 million in window glass for schools, school repair and electrical supplies, paper and printing
supplies for textbooks, and desk-top publishing equipment). Assistance has also been provided on
outlining an approach to sector rehabilitation and restructuring, and the education sector investment
prograir.
1.29     IDA assistance is also helping to attract and facilitate other donors' support. Japan Grant
_4    As noted in pan. 1.13, including the prefectue level but excluding schools themselves, de Albanian ducational sysem bas five kvels
of governance. Other couttries tend to work with different combinations of only three our of four goverance levels: the school; the
first intermediate level, defied as closest to the school (comparable to the municipality and commune levels in Albania or to local swhool
boards in the U.S. or England); the second intenmedite level (compamble to the district council in Albania or the canton in Switzedaid
and the center.



-9 -
funding has been used to assist the MOE in establishing a data base on school rehabilitation
requirements, setting up an implementation mechanism for school rehabilitation, and launching the
capacity-building activities. This preparatory work is facilitating para:lel financing by the Soros
Foundation, which is considering a major commitment that will be launched in 1994 with a pilot
project of US$9.0 million for rehabilitation of 8-year schools, by the European Union which is
programming about ECU 6.0 million for school rehabilitation in 1994-95, and by UNICEF which is
funding repair of pre-school buildings. The UK Know-How Fund has recently committed grant
funding to support the development of textbook policy and publisher training. Swiss Grant funding
executed by IDA (about US$260,000 equivalent) is providing technical assistance and external
training for planning the restrcturing of secondary education. This parallel activity is expected to lay
a foundation for follow-up donor investments in rehabilitation and implementation of new curricula in
middle schools.
1.30    IDA is well-placed to assist Albania ir. school facilities rehabilitation, drawing upon initial
experience with civil works in the Albania Housing and Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects.(Credit
Nos. 2534 and 2461). The proposed Project complements other recently approved social sector
efforts in Social Safety Net Development (Credit No. 2543) and Labor Market Development (Credit
No. 2544) and the proposed Health Services Rehabilitation Project( FY95). IDA also brings to bear
its experience with education development in low income countries in other regions and with
education restructuring efforts in other Central and Southern European countries, including Hungary,
Romania, Poland and Bulgaria.



11. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1     The Project will help the Government to sustain delivery of basic education services during
Albania's difficult economic transition and to build institutional capacity for planning, management
and quality assurance of education in an increasingly decentralized system. Its specific objectives are
to:
(a) accelerate rehabilitation of damaged and dilapidated school facilities in Albania's 37
districts; and
(b) build capacity of the key sector institutions to stimulate efficient use of fiscal resources and
assure quality of learning outcomes.
B. Proiect Description
2.2     The Project has two parts, which are described in the following paragraphs. Project
implementation is scheduled over four years. Total project costs including contingencies, taxes, and
duties are estimated at US$11.3 million'. The Project will finance the material and labor costs of
school rehabilitation. equipment, external and local training, technical assistance, and incremental
recurrent costs. Maintenance costs of the rehabilitated schools will be financed fully by the
Government. The Government has requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of
US$125,000 to finance the procurement of basic equipment for the PCU, and staff training in
procurement and project management.
Part A: School Rehabilitation (US$10.3 million)
2.3     This component will build upon the work launched under the Albania Critical Imports
Project (which included an injection of materials for school building repair) with support for a more
systematically developed school rehabilitation program. During 1993, the MOE and its 37 district-
level school supply/buildings works units called Economic Centers (see para. 1.13, Charts 2 and 3,
and Map) undertook an assessment of school rehabilitation requirements, with technical assistance
under the Japan Grant (see Annex 2 for more details on the Government's school rehabilitation
program). The assessment differentiated classrooms that could be repaired from those that were
unsalvageable and required new school construction. The base cost of the repair and replacement
required nationwide is estimated at about US$80 million.
2.4     Financing under the proposed project will cover only a part of these overall needs and will
build upon the Government's investment budget resources. (MOE implemented about US$3.7 million
in budgetary investment funds for school rehabilitation in 1993, and is expected to implement a
program of US$5.0 million equivalent in 1994.) In keeping with the Government's strategy of
protecting the base of the education system, the Project funds will be concentrated on eight-year and
elementary schools. Funds will be allocated as follows:
IJ Estimated costs in this chapter are inclusive of contingencies and taxes.



- II -
(i) school repair program (about 65 percent of base cost) to complete about 1,630 classroom
repairs in selected schools in all districts, covering about 237 schools or 20 percent of net
repair requirements, and furniture and equipment needs.2 Resources for the repair program
will be allocated proportionately among all districts on the basis of the MOE's 1993
engineering assessment of the nationwide school rehabilitationi bill, and
(ii) school replacement program (about 35 percent of base cost) to complete all school building
replacement requirements in the northern districts of Kukes, Puke and Shkoder (See Map),
covering about 200 classrooms in 38 schools or 10 percent of net nationwide school
replacement requirements for buildings, and furniture and equipment. Replacement schools
will adapt standard school building designs agreed vwith the Bank at applaisal.
2.5     Selection Criteria. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that schools to
be covered in the School Repair Program will be selected by the Economic Centers only if they
have: (a) a certificate of the relevant district confirming that the school and school site, with
land title, is permanent within the district; (b) an approval of the Economic Center on the
structural soundness of the school; and (c) an assurance from the school management on
building maintenance and security. Priority will be given to the schools with the highest student
per classroom ratio. The MOE prepared and agreed with IDA during negotiations the
implementation plan for the first year's activities under the School Rehabilitation Component that
specifies the schools selected according to the agreed criteria. Implementation of the component will
be launched initially in seven districts (Kukes, Lac, Lezhe, Lushnje, Puke, Shkoder, and Tepelene).
The Government provided assurances at negotiations that by November 30 of each project year,
it will provide IDA with the detailed program for school repair/replacement in the forthcoming
year.
2.6     The school rehabilitation program will be coordinated by the MOE in conjunction with the
district Economic Centers, which will undertake the procurement of civil works and furniture
contracts, in collaboration with a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and will supervise the works.
2.7     The Project will finance civil works, school furniture, and service fees for local specialist
and administrative support to the Economic Centers. The annual operation and maintenance costs for
all schools from kindergarten to middle school levels are estimated at 0.5 percent of building
investment costs and 2 percent of furniture and equipment investment. Provision for these
expenditures will be incorporated into the annual MOE recurrent budget.
Part B: Key Sector Capacities (US$1.0 million)
2.8      This component will continue a program of training and technical assistance activities to help
the MOE/Pedagogic Institute move ahead as quickly as possible on the most critical resource
planning, institutional development and quality assurance challenges that confront them. The
activities. inputs to be financed, and eXpected outputs are detailed in Annex 3 and summarized in
paras 2.9-2.12. Several capacity-building activities are already underway, using parallel grant
2/  'Net requirements" refer to the rehabilitation requirements remaining after the repairs to be undertaken in 1993/94 with
the investment funds of MOE that are not considered part of the project fmnancing. See also Annex 2.



- 12 -
financing .3 All of the activities are focused on specific outputs and designed for completion not later
than the second year of project implementation. These activities are expected to pave the way for
follow-up assistance by IDA and other donors.
2.9      Planning and Management Information (US$0.2 millioni. Using Japan Grant resources, the
MOE is: (i) reviewing the powers, duties and responsibilities of the various actors in the management
of education in Albania in light of recent and proposed future changes in aovnance and
recormnending approaches to streamlining; and (ii) constructing a rural planning model to assist in
determining the future provision of education in rural areas and rationalizing existing provision. The
model will provide a tool for examining tradeoffs between having small schools in individual villages,
or larger schools for "village clusters" with dormitories or daily transportation provided for pupils.
The modelling will cover both the financial and educational/social costs and benefits of the various
options. This activity is being undertaken by MOE in cooperation with the three districts under the
School Replacement Program (see para. 2.4). Project activities will follow on from this inital Japan
Grant-funded work by MOE staff training in management and support for an ongoing MOE pilot
project in several districts to computerize systems for managing information on education
2.10     Ouality Assurance in Basic Education (Pedagogic Institute) (US$0.2 million). Using Japan
Grant resources, the Pedagogic Institute is developing a strategic plan that will review the functions of
the Pedagogic Institute and reorganize its structure as needed. Based on this strategy, the Project will
provide local trairing activities to develop understanding among the various stakeholders in education
(the MOE, the Pedagogic Institute, education managers, inspectors, teachers, and university staff) and
will establish a knowledge base of recent developments in quality assurance in education and in
cognitive, child, and adolescent development, and approaches to the teaching and learning process.
These local seminars, seen as the first of a "Tirana Lecture Seriest, will be presented by external
specialists. The seminars will be taped and captioned in Albanian for use at the local level. Topics
for the seminars will stem from the strategic exercise, and are likely to include learning assessment,
teacher training and credentialling, curriculum organization, and managemeri training for education
personnel. The Project will also train a core group of learning assessment specialists for a Center for
Assessment, which is already considered by the Institute to be a high priority. Finally, the
subcomponent will set up an initial "twinning" or partnership linkage between the Pedagogic Institute
and a center with similar functions in another country, as well as finance stud) visits to pilot or
laboratory schools in another country. Additional donor financing is being sought to expand twinning
activities.
2.11     Textbook Improvement (US$0.1 million). With the supply of basic textbooks now more
stabilized (see para. 1.9). it is possible to begin addressing the quality aspects of learning materials
and the policies and mechanisms for textbook provision, especially the emerging role of the private
sector. This subcomponent will provide follow-up support to a roundtable on textbook policy and
action planning that is being organized by MOE, with UK Know-How Fund support, for late July
1994. External study visits and technical assistance will be provided to key staff working on
development of textbook provision Roligv. As this policy and a commercial enviromnent for textbook
publishing, printing and distribution emerges, the subcomponent will provide training in publishing
3t  Activities underway include development of a school location planing model for nual areas, a study to recommend options
for streamlining education governance and adminson, a strategic planning exercise for institutional development of the
Pedagogic nstitte, and action planning for the restructuring of secondary education.



- 13 -
and financial management. To assist quality improvement in the short-term, the Project will also
finance modest eguipment of the State textbook publishing house to enable it to ef actively use its
newly acquired computers for book design and page layout.
2.12    Proiect Coordination Unit (US$0.4 million). The MOE has established a compact Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), which reports directly to the Minister, to oversee and coordinate major
externally funded activities in school rehabilitation and capacity-building. The PCU currently consists
of a full-time Project Coordinator, an Accountant, and a multi-lingual secretary. This core staff is
being expanded under the Project to include a Lead Engineer/Architect, and will contract staff to
assist as necessary with procurement, supervision of works, organization of external training and
other services as required. The responsibilities of the PCU are described in paras. 3.6-3.7. Office
space has already been allocated for the PCU. Tne Project will provide the PCU with computers,
office furniture, equipment and supplies, and two vehicles for project supervision. Basic office
equipment will be provided for the district Economic Centers. The Project may also finance the
services of an independent auditor to conduct the annual audits of project-related expenditure. The
Project will provide for technical assistance to assist PCU and other MOE staff involved in the project
on procurement and project accounts management, and external training visits to observe
implementation management practices in IDA/Bank-supported projects in other countries.
C. Environmental IMRWt
2.13    This is a Category C project: No appreciable environmental impact. The Project is
expected to have a beneficia! environmental impact through inproved sanitation facilities in the
rehabilitated schools. Environ-mental considerations, especially concerning the materials available
locally for school construction and maintenance, will be factored into school building quality
standards and procuremert of building materials.



- 14 -
111. PROJEC' COSTS, FINAVCING ANI) IMPELEMENTATION
A. PrOiect Costs
3.1      Sunmary of Proiect Costs. Total project cost is estimated at US$11.3 million equivalent,
including contingencies, taxes and dutie5. Total contingencies are estimated at US$1.7 million, or
18 percent of total base cost (US$9.6 million). The project cost includes the rehabilitation of
facilities, frniture, equipment and materials, vehicles, consulting services, training, and incremental
operating costs for the Project. The estimated project costs, detailed in Annex 4, are summarized
below.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(Lek Million)               (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign Total       Local    Foreign Total
A. SCHOOL REHABILITATION
1. Building/Furniture Repairs       402.8   160.7   563.5         4.0      1.6     5.6
2. Building/Furniture Substitution  218.9    87.3   306.2          .2      0.9      3.1
Subtotal                    621.7   248.0   869.7         6.2       2.5     8.7
B. KEY SECTOR CAPACITES
1. Planning & Management Info         1.6    16.4    18.1         0.0      0.2     0.2
2. Quality Assurance (Pedagogic Institute)   5.2    16.0   21.2   0.1      0.2     0.2
3. Textbook Improvement               0.5    10.8    11.3         0.0      0.1     0.1
4. Project Coordination               7.8    30.8    37.5         0.1      0.3     0.4
Subtotal                      14.0   74.1    88.0         0.1       0.7     0.9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 635.6   322.0   957.7         6.4       3.2     9.6
Physical Contingencies              61.3    29.7    90.9         0.6      0.3      0.9
Price Contingencies                 58.8    23.3    82.1         0.6      0.2      0.8
TOTAL PROJECT CObTS                  755.7   375.0  1,130.7        7.6       3.7    11.3
Notes:         Figures may not total exacty due to rounding.
Tota Project costs include taxes of US$0.8 million equivalent.
3.2      Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs have been estimated on the following basis:
(a) Base Costs. Project costs have been adjusted to reflect prices prevailing at the time of
negotiations in May 1994, and have been denominated in US dollars because inflation of the
Lek over the life of the Project is difficult to predict. Costs shown in Lek are the result of
converting dollar estimates at the rate of 100 Lek/US$1.00 (May 1994). Technical
assistance cost estimates are based on recent cost estimates for comparable technical
assistance in other IDA-financed projects in Albania, i.e.: (a) foreign consultants at an
average US$16,000 per month; and (b) loxal consultants at US$35 per month. Monthly
estimates for external training are between US$4,000 (long-term) and US$8,000 (short-term)
per month. Price estimates for consumable and durable goods are based on lists of



- 15 -
requirements prepared for each project component. Building refulrbishment and furniture
costs are based on unit costs of recent works and furnishing contracts obtained from local
officials for the costs of these items.
(b) ContinRency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical variations (US$0.9 million). Physical contingencies were calculated at five percent
of the estimated base cost of technical assistance and training, and 10 percent for all other
project items. Due to the significant differential between local and foreign price escalation
forecasts, foreign price escalation rates have been applied to both local and foreign costs in
US dollar terms, at the rate of 2.5 percent annually for the life of the Project. Estimated
price contingencies total about US$0.8 million.
(c) Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows:
(a) external training - 100 percent; (b) foreign consultants - 80 percent. (c) local training - 20
percent; (d) equipment, materials and vehicles - 100 percent; (e) furniture - 50 percent;
(f) building rehabilitation - 20 percent. Including contingencies, the resulting foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$3.7 million, or about 33 percent of total project
costs.
(d) Taxes. The Government has exempted externally financed development projects from the
payment of duties and taxes on imported items. Thus, project costs have been estimated on
the assumption that any goods directly imported for the Project and expatriate consulting
services will be tax exempt. Total project costs include, however, an estimated 7.2 percent
or US$0.8 million equivalent for direct and indirect taxes on civil works and locally
procured goods and services.



- 16 -
TABLE 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
% Total
(Lek Million)             (US$ Million)          Base
Local Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign   Total      Costs
Investment Costs
CIVIL WORKS                        476.4   113.4  589.8        4.8       1.1    5.9        62
FURNITURE                          14;.5   134.7  280.3        1.5       1.3    2.8        29
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS              -     21.0   21.0                  0.2    0.2          2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                4.0    16.0   20.0         0.0      0.2    0.2          2
TRAINING
Local                              4.8    5.2   10.0          0.0      0.1    0.1          1
External                            -     29.6   29.6         -        0.3     0.3         3
Subtotal                      4.8   34.8   39.6         0.0      0.3    0.4          4
Total Investment Costs              630.7  319.5  950.2          6.3      3.2    9.5        99
Recurrent Costs
SALARIES AND WAGES                   1.8     -      1.8        0.0       -      0.0
EQUIPMENT O&M                        1.8    2.0    4.1         0.0      0.0    0.0
MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES               1.1    0.5    1.6         0.0      0.0    0.0
Total Recurrent Costs                 4.9    2.5    7.4          0.0      0.0    0.1          1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                635.6  322.0  957.7          6.4      3.2    9.6        100
Physical Contingencies             61.3   30.0   91.0          0.6      0.3    0.9          9
Price Contingencies                58.8   23.3   82.1          0.6      0.2    0.8          9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 755.7  375.0 1,130.7         7.6      3.9    11.3       118
Notes:        Figures may not total exactly due to rounding or to amounts smaller than 0.1 in some expenditure categories.
Total Project costs include and taxes estimated at US$0.8 million equivalent.
3.3           Recurrent Costs. Project cost estimates include only incremental operating costs
generated by the proposed investments. These incremental costs over the four-year implementation
period are estimated at about US$0.1 million equivalent, for PCU staff salaries and project related
equipment operation, materials and supplies. The incremental costs constitute less than one percent of
the 1993 MOE recurrent budget, and will not be an undue burden on the Government. The Project
is expected to help improve the efficiency of recurrent expenditures by supporting the MOE in
downsizing the teaching force. However, the 1994 recurrent budget for education is expected to be
held barely constant, with an estimated increase of less than one percent over the 1993 budget.
Continuation or worsening of this trend could have serious implications, especially for preventive
maintenance of the newly rehabilitated schools, unless adequate internal reallocation is made. The
Government provded assurances dunig negotiations that, in its annual budget submission to
Parliament, the Government will maintain recrrent expendihtues for eight-year education,
expressed as a percentage of overall recurrent expendiures, at a level at least equivalent to that
provided in 194 (4.2 percent). In addition, assurances were provided that by November 30 of
each project year, it will review jointly with IDA: (a) the draft education sector budget and
sources of financing; and (b) the progress I implementing the ad4Lstment of teacher numbers,
including monitoring of the absolute number of teachers in the sector and trends in



- 17 -
student:teacher ratios at all levels. The annual budget review will focus particularly on monitoring
the compliance with the provision noted above on recurrent expenditure and on the adequacy of
funding for preventive maintenance of school facilities.
B. Proiect Financing
3.4          Total financing requirements are US$11.3 million. The proposed Bank financing is
SDR 6.9 million (US$9.6 million equivalent), which would cover 90 percent of total project cost net
of taxes and duties. IDA financing would cover 100 percent of foreign costs and about 87 percent of
local costs. Government counterpart financing of US$1.7 million equivalent would cover the
remaining local costs and all taxes. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance is financing the
establishment of the project management structure. A provision has been made for retroactive
financing of up to US$900,000 for eligible expenditures incurred after January 31, 1994. Project
financing arrangements are detailed in Tables 3.3 and 3.4.
Table 3.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
AND SOURCE OF FINANCING
(US$ Million)
IDA            Goverrnens'    Total"
A. SCHOOL REHABILITATION
1. Repair Program              5.4               1.1            6.4
2. Replacement Program         3.2               0.6            3.8
Subtotal                  8.7                1.7           10.4
B. KEY SECTOR CAPACITES
1. Planning and Management Info  0.2             0.0            0.2
2. Quality Assurance (Ped. Inst)  0.2             -             0.2
3. Textbook Improvement        0.1                -             0.1
4. Project Coordinaiion        0.3               0.1            0.4
Subtotal                  0.9                0.1            1.0
Total                             9.6               1.7           11.3
Now: Figures may not toa exactly due to rounding.
U Includes es estimatd at USS0.8 million equivalte.



- 18 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY SOURCE OF FINANCING
(US$ Mllion)
IDA        Governmentit    Total
Investment Costs
CIVIL WORKS                      5.8              1.3            7.1
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS          3.1              0.3            3.3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             0.2              0.0            0.2
TRAINING                         0.4              0.0            0.4
Recurrent Costs                    -               0.1            0.1
TOTAL                             9.6              1.7            11.3
1/ Includes Eaxes estimated at US$0.8 million equivalent.
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
C. Project Management and hIMlementation
3.5     The final authority over the implementation of the Project will reside with the Miniister of
Education. In keeping with the Project's capacity-building objective, the implementation of the
project's components/subcomponents will be the responsibility of MOE line departments and units,
assisted by qualified specialists as necessary. To ensure that project objectives, schedules and
performance targets are met successfully, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established by the
Minister of Education will be responsible for coordinating all project-related implementation tasks.
Details of implementation and coordination responsibilities under the Project are described below. A
base project implementation schedule is provided in Annex 7.
3.6      Proiect Coordination. The PCU will be kept compact, well-equipped, highly mobile, and
given ready and direct access to decision-making awithority in the MOE and agencies/units involved in
the Project. The Project will provide the PCU with training, equipment and specialist services in
procurement, implementation and accounts management to strengthen its coordinating capacity (para.
2.12). The PCU consists of a full-time Project Coordinator, a Lead Engineer/Architect, a
Procurement Officer, an Accountant, and a multi-lingual secretary. Because of the accelerating pace
of project implementation, the PCU is now recruiting the services of a full-time building engineer to
coordinate the School Rehabilitation Component. Additional support staff will also be contracted as
required to assist the PCU.
3.7     The PCU has three sets of responsibilities: coordination and monitoring of project-related
activities; management of procurement activities to ensure compliance with procedures and
documentation agreed with IDA; and management of funds (Government and IDA) allocated for the
Project. Specifically:
(a) Coordination and monitoring. The PCU will be the principal liaison with other
Government institutions and IDA for project administration and supervision. It will refer
any implementation problems/issues which require the attention of MOE management



- 19 -
and/or IDA. The PCU will ensure that all resources (financial, physical, staff, etc)
allocated to project institutions are used in accordance with the project priorities, objectives,
schedules and implementation procedures agreed with IDA. To this effect, the PCU will:
(i) maintain up-to-date detailed implementation schedules of each component and will
follow-up on the activities of MOE departments to ensure timely implementation;
(ii) monitor compliance with Project/Credit covenants; (iii) monitor the placement and
performance of staff sent for external training and of consultants hired under the Project;
and (iv) organize the amual and mid-term reviews of project performance. The PCU will
be responsible for preparing and distributing to relevant agencies, by the agreed dates:
consolidated semi-annual reports reflecting, inter alia, the status of implementation
progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed, current costs of each project
component, and estimated costs of coinpletion; and annual financial audit reports.
(b) Piocurement management. The PCU will be responsible for procurement under the Project
to ensure that the contracting of works, goods and services are all in accordance with the
procurement procedures and documentation agreed with IDA. The PCU will prepare the
standard bidding documents (incorporating provisions and procedures agreed with IDA) and
clear all procurement documentation for the Project (securing IDA prior approval where
required). The PCU itself will undertake the procurement of goods (equipment. materials,
furniture) and technical assistance (TA) contracts (specialist services and fellowships) for
the Project. In this regard, the PCU will collaborate with the MOE implementing units in
preparing/finalizing the technical requirements of the bid/proposal documents (equipment
specifications, terms of reference for TA, etc.), and in evaluating equipment and TA
proposals received. The PCU will supervise the procurement of all civil works contracts,
the bidding documents for which will be prepared, organized and evaluated by district
Economic Centers. The PCU will review the district recommendations for award of works
contracts. The PCU Procurement Officer will be trained in IDA procurement procedures
both by IDA staff, to the extent possible, and possibly through participation in one of the
procurement seminars organized by the World Bank and the International Labor
Organization in Turin, Italy. The PCU staff will also be encouraged to exchange
experience regularly with staff of other PCUs in Albania, especially those for the Rural
Poverty Alleviation, Housing, and proposed Health Services Rehabilitation Projects, which
are also undertaking small-scale civil works. During implementation, as needed, the PCU
will contract services to assist in procurement, project implementation management and
accounts management.
(c) Management of Project funds. The PCU will facilitate the flow of resources to MOE units
involved in the Project, and will monitor, and take appropriate steps to obtain adequate
Gover,mnent counterpart funds (investment and recurrent) to finance planned project
activities. To this end, the PCU will consolidate the estimates, prepared by each
implementing unit, of the financial and resource needs of their respective components for
the upcoming year of implementation. These consolidated budget estimates will be
discussed with IDA during the annual project implementation reviews, sufficiently in
advance of the Govermnent's annual budgetary presentation/approval processes, in order to
accommodate appropriate changes. The PCU will operate the Special Account established
for the Project, process applications for disbursement/withdrawal of Credit funds, monitor
total project costs, and keep up-to-date records of project accounts and expenditure. The
processing and disbursement of funds for project-related expenditures incurred at the district
level are described in more detail in paras 3.27-3.28.



- 20 -
3.8     Implementation of Proiect Components/Subcomponents. The detailed implementation of
each project subcomponent will be carried out by the respective implementing line departments in the
MOE, as shown below. The MOE has formally designated the Responsible Officer for each of the
following components/subcomponents.
(a) The implementation of the School Rehabilitation Component will be overseen by the PCU,
which will ensure, in collaboration with the MOE Economic Department, that agreed
standards, schedules, procedure. and cost parameters are k-ept. Additional
architects/engineers will be contracted as necessary to assist the PCU to conduct periodic
site inspections in the districts. The execution of the school rehabilitation/refurbishing
program in each discrict will be the responsibility of the rele~ ant district Economic Center.
The implementation of this component comprises three phases:
(i) School selection. The PCU will collaborate with the MOE Economic Department and
the district Economic Centers to ensure that the agreed school selection criteria and
school design standards are applied. The PCU will define with each Econornic Center
the yearly school rehabilitation targets and resource needs, considering local
implementation capacity and priorities. The implementation program for Year I of the
Project has been prepared and reviewed by IDA;
(ii) Bidding and contract award. District Economic Centers will implement the _,vil works
bidding/contracting processes covering the schools in their respective jurisdictions.
Each Fconomic Center is preparing detailed technical folders, describing physical
needs, building plans and technical specifications, furniture requirements, cost
estimates for the refurbishing, a- well as other legal or institutional requirements; and
bidding documents for school rehabilitation/refurbishing contracts using the standard
formats prepared by the PCU and agreed with IDA. The schools to be refurbished
will be grouped into "bidding packages" considering physical location or difficulty of
execution. These packages will be cleared by the PCU, and resources ascertained
before the bidding process is initiated by the Economic Centers. Contract packages
below US$40,000 will be awarded directly by the Economic Centers; contracts of
US$40,000 or more will be awarded by the PCU;
(iii) Construction. Each Economic Center will administer the civil works contracts within
its jurisdiction, and will be responsible for monitoring contractor performance and
quality of construction, measuring completed works, and processing payments to civil
works contractors. The contract payment and disbursement procedures are described
further in paras 3.23-3.28. The PCU will manage the flow of Special Account and
Government counterpart funds to each Economic Center. The PCU will ensure that
the Economic Centers keep appropriate accounts of all works transactions financed by
the Project, and verify that civil works contracts have been properly executed and
guarantees obtained before final turnover and payments are made to contractors. Each
Economic Center will forward periodic reports on the school rehabilitation
implementation progress to the PCU, in time for the PCU to include these accounts in
the semi-annual progress reports submitted to MOE authorities and IDA.
(b) The Planning and Management Information subcomponent will be implemented by the
Economics Department of MOE. In the pilot districts undertaking computerization, local
implementation responsibility will rest with the Director of the Education Department.
(c) The Oualitv Assurance in Basic Education (Pedagogic Institute) subcomponent will be



- 21 -
implemented by the Pedagogic Institute (PI). The Director of the Institute is establishing a
small team composed of PI staff to manage the activities, with assistance as needed from
other MOE staff.
(d) The Textbooks Inprovement subcomponent will be implemented through the MOE
Economics Department. The Tirana Office of the Soros Foundation has indicated its
willingness to provide logistical support to the MOE for training activities under this
subcomponent.
3.9      Each implementing department (e.g., Economics Department or Pedagogic Institute) will be
responsible for ensuring that project activities are carried out in accordance with agreed project
objectives. Specific tasks for which the implementing departments will be responsible include:
(a) finalizing with IDA the Terms of Reference (TORs) for the specialist services and training
required in their respective parts of the Project, and evaluating, in collaboration with the
PCU, the technical assistance proposals received;
(b) monitoring the implementation of local training and seminars;
(c) identifying and tapping local expertise in activities such as preparation of detailed
procedures and implementation schedules, and assisting in the preparation of equipment lists
and specifications and evaluating bids received; and
(d) preparing physical and financial forecasts of future actions required to implement their parts
of the Project, and forwarding these estimates to the PCU sufficiently in advance of the
Government's budgetary preparation/approval processes, for appropriate inclusion in the
MOE budget proposals.
3.10    Monitoring and Reporting. The PCU will be responsible for project monitoring and
reporting. The Govermnent provided assurances at negotiations that the MOE will prepare and
furnish to IDA every April 30 and October 31 a consolidated report of the status of project
huplementation. The report will cover each subcomponent, its objectives and activities, and
addressing: (a) current status and issues; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation plan and
project targets; (c) recommendations for actions and forward planning; and (d) actual and planned
expenditures. A plan for monitoring of the education sector budget and adjustment of teacher
numbers (see paras. 1.7 and 3.3) and outputs of the project components is provided in Annex 8.
3.11    Mid-Tern Review and Evaluation. The Govenment provided assurances at negotiations
that by June 30,1996, it will undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the Project.
MOE has indicated that it will invite major parallel donor partners in the sector to participate in this
review. These partners vill likely include the European Union, the Soros Foundation, UNICEF and
possibly others. The .nid-term review will be used to deternine whether: (a) the Project's objectives
remain relevant; (b) implementation is advancing satisfactorily to justify its continued implementation;
and (c) any adjustments to, or significant restructuring of the Project are necessary to improve its
effectiveness. The review will pay particular attention to progress in the School Rehabilitation
Component and to the outputs of the capacity-building activities and their implications for follow-up
investment needed by the Government, IDA or other donors.
3.12    Project Completion and Evaluation. The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1998. The PCU will be responsible for preparing a final project report.



- 22 -
3.13     IDA Supervision. Because this is the first project in the education sector in Albania, the
Project will require intensive supervision, especially in the first year of implementation. Selective
review of civil works contracts, school site visits, the project monitoring reports and indicators, and a
careful review of project expenditures and availability of project resources will form the basis for the
supervision missions. Discussions will be held with the PCU and Government counterparts, as well
as with technical assistance providers assisting with implementation of components. Supervision staff
will include the task manager, an Albanian local staff liaison officer at the Albanian Resident Mission,
an architeetimnplementation specialist, and a general education specialist. Initially, project supervision
will be managed out of the World Bank's Central European Services, located at the Hungary Resident
Mission in Budapest. This arrangement will pernit frequent, short supervision visits to Albania bv
the task manager. A Supervision Plan is provided in Annex 9.



- 23 -
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.14       The project elements, estimated costs, anci procurement arrangements for those elements
financed by the IDA Credit are sumunarized in Table 3.5 below. Country-specific bid documentation
developed by IDA will be utilized for procurement of IDA-financed works, goods and services.
Expenditures financed entirely with Goverrnent funds is shown under the Non-IDA Financed (NIF)
column.
Table 3.5: PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
Procurement Method----
ICB               LCB                Other         NIF bl    Total
1. Civil works                                                      3.lc/           4.0 dl                       7.1
(2.5)          (3.3)                         (5.8)
2. School Furniture                                                 2.7 e!          0.6fl                         3.3
(2.5)          (0.5)                         (3.0)
3. Equipment, vehicles, learning materials                                          0.2 g/                        0.2
(0.2)                        (0.2)
4. Consultant services                                                              0.2 h/ i/                     0.6
(0.2)                        (0.6)
5. Fellowships and training                                                         0.4
(0.4)
6. Incremental recurrent costs                                                                        0.l i/     0.1
(0.0)
Total
5.8             5.4               .1I        11.3
(5.0)          (4.6)             (0.0)       (9.6)
Notes:    1) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts ftnanced by IDA.
2) Categories 3 and 5 above include expenditures to be covered by a PPF advance of US$125,000.
a/   Figures may not total exacdy due to rounding.
t/ Non-IDA financed.
_l   Works contracts of US$40,000 or more per contract (aggregate US$2.5 million equivalent) awarded through Simplified Local
Competiive Bidding (SLCB), in accordance with procedures and documentation agreed with IDA.
dt Works contracts less than US$40,000 per package (aggregate US$3.3 miOlion equivalent) may be awarded through local shopping, out
of which US$400,00n r -regate may be procured through negotiated contracts in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA if
three quotations cannot   ftamed.
C/   School furniture contc ... US$100.000 or less per contract (aggregate US$2.5 million) procured through LCB in accordance with
IDA Procurement Guidelines.
f/   School furniture contracts below US$10,000 per package (aggregate US$400,000 equivalent) procured through local shopping, out of
which US$150.000 aggregate may be procured through negotiated contracts in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA if three
quotations cannot be obtained.
g/   Inemational shopping (aggregate US$150,000) packages estimated at USS100.000 or less per contract; local shopping (aggregate
US$50,000) packages estimated at US$25,000 or less per contrac. Proprietary items (US$30.00 aggregate IDA financing) to be
procured thmugh direct purchase from suppliers.
hl Consultant services. fellowships and training contracts awarded in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
i Of this total, approximately 50% of setvices are for Project Implementation. 40% for Capacity-Building and 10% for Policy
DevelpmentG
It   Sabaes, O&M & non-alaq opeaatng costs financed by Government and procured according to current Govermment procedures.



- 24 -
3.15    The PCU will be responsible for overall procurement activities as described in detail in
para. 3.7. The role of other MOE departments and units in procurement under the Project are
described in paras. 3.8(a) and 3.9. Procurement will be undertaken in the following manner:
3.16    Equipment and Materials. Equipment (aggregate IDA financing US$230,00 !) to be
procured under the Project will consist of office and educational equipment, resource materials and
supplies, two vehicles and computers. Goods contracts at US$100,000 or less per contract (aggregate
IDA financing US$150,000) may be awarded in accordance with international shopping procedures
consistent with IDA Procurement Guidelines, on the basis of at least three price quotations from
suppliers from at least three different eligible source countries. Items that cannot be grouped or
groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or less per contract, or off-the-shelf-
items such as office and classroom supplies and equipment, and supplies and materials for local
training, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$50.000 may be purchased through local
shopping on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations obtained from qualified suppliers.
For other goods (aggregate IDA financing US$30,000) which IDA agrees are of proprietary nature
(e.g., computer software, learning resource materials, etc.), contracts may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.17    School Furniture. School and classroom furniture are bulky and will be delivered in small
quantities to around 280 school sites nationwide over a four-year period. Under these conditions,
international bulk procurement will not be practical because of the absence of large central
warehousing and efficient transport, and difficulties of access. Local furniture mnanufacturers are
deemed capable of supplying the project needs adequately and competitively because of the simple
furniture specifications. and the time spread of the contracts which is not likely to strain production
capacity. School furniture contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 (aggregate IDA financing
US$2.5 million equivalent) will be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost US$10,000 or less
(aggregate IDA financing US$400,000) may be procured through local shopping on the basis of at
least three price quotations. Out of the aggregate amount for local shopping, the fabrication of
furniture (aggregate IDA financing US$150,000) for schools in remote villages may be implemented
with community assistance using local shopping procedures adapted under the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project which are acceptable to IDA. If it is not possible to elicit three offers using local
shopping procedures, the Borrower with prior concurrence of the Association, may use direct
contracting.
3.18    Civil Works. Works contracts under the Project consist of urgent repairs to about 240
schools (costing from US$5,000 to US$40,000 per school), and the replacement of around 40 similar
schools (US$40,000 to US$150,000 per school) which are too deteriorated to repair economically.
These works are geographically dispersed over 37 districts and generally not feasible to group into
large packages because of the four-year implementation spread, making them unlikely to attract
foreign contractors. Works contracts estimated at US$40,000 or more per contract (aggregate IDA
financing - US$2.5 million equivalent) will be procured through simplified local competitive bidding
(SLCB) in accordance with procedures and documentation agreed with IDA. LCB documents
developed by IDA for the Housing Project will be adapted for this purpose. Works contracts
estimated at less than US$40,000 per contract (aggregate US$3.3 million) may be awarded through
local shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations. About 10 percent of small works are
located in rural areas too remote to attract organized building contractors. If it is not possible to elicit
three offers using local shopping procedures, the Borrower with prior concurrence of the Association,
may use direct contracting up to an aggregate IDA financing of US$400,000 equivalent. The
Govermnent has agreed to use the document n Invitation to Quote and Contract Conditions for



- 25 -
Procurement of Works under simplified Local Competitive Bidding" for the award of civil works
contracts estimated at more than US$40,000 equivalent per contract.
3.19    Consulting Services and Training. Consultants for specialized services financed under the
Project will be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Consulting services
(aggregate US$450,000, including contingencies) will consist of architectural/engineering,
management and education-related, and auditing services involving consulting firms and individual
experts grouped into seven packages, and contracts with individuals which cannot be packaged
because of the unrelated fields of expertise, or in the case of engineering services needed concurrently
in dispersed locations. In addition, about US$430,000 aggregate equivalent for training and
fellowships may be procured from either consulting firms or education organizations abroad as part of
the packaged programs. A summary of specialized services and training requirements of the Project
is shown in Annex 5.
3.20    Recurrent Costs. Building and equipment maintenance services, annual computer and
software mainterance, staff salaries and other incremental non-salary recurrent costs will be financed
entirely by the Government, and will be procured in accordance with current Government procedures.
3.21    Contract Review. The procurement documentation to be submitted for prior review by
IDA include: bid advertisements, bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, draft contracts and terms
of reference. It is estimated that prior review will cover about 45 percent of the value of all contracts
for civil works, furniture and goods, consulting services and training. The remaining contracts will
be subject to selective post-award reviews by IDA. A detailed list of procurement packages under the
Project is prcvided in Annex 5. The PCU will be responsible for reviewing all civil works and
furniture contracts procured by the district Economic Centers, and school rehabilitation works
administered by Community Councils. IDA will conduct a prior review of the following contracts:
(a) Civil works:
- the first three small contracts (less than US$40,000);
- the first three medium contracts (US$40,000 or more); and
- all larger contracts (US$100,000 or more).
(b) Equipment and Materials:
- the first three large contrac.s (US$25,000 or more) for shopping.
(c) School Furniture:
- the first three small contracts (US$10,000 or less); and
- the first three medium contracts (more than US$10,000 and US$100,000 or less).
(d) Consulting Services:
- contracts above US$30,000: all documentation (terms of reference, letters of
invitation, selection criteria, evaluation reports, draft contracts);
- contracts below US$30,000: terms of reference
- arnendments to consultant contracts raising the contract amount to above US$30,000.
(e) Fellowships and training:
- all documentation (selection criteria, plans, selection of institutions to provide training).
3.22    Procurement Information to be Provided by the Borrower. The PCU will promptly inform
IDA of contract awards and procurement issues and will include the following procurement



- 26 -
information in periodic progress reports:
(a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total Project, including best estimates
of allowances for physical and price contingency;
(b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contract; and
(c) status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
E. Disbursement
3.23    This Project is among the first IDA operations in the human resources sector in Albania,
and therefore, the country disbursement profile is speculative. The Project has been designed to fit
within the capacity of MOE to execute over a four-year period, and to be fully disbursed within 19
quarters from Board Approval. A disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 6. Full disbursement
of the IDA Credit is expected by the closing date of March 31, 1999.
3.24    Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for goods (equipment, vehicles, furniture, books,
training materials and proprietary software); 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured items; and 85 percent of the cost of goods procured locally;
(b) 80 percent of civil works expenditures;
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services; and
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for fellowships and training.
Staff salaries, vehicle and equipment operation and facilities maintenance costs will not be funded out
of the IDA credit.
3.25    All withdrawal applications relating to contracts for works, goods and services of
US$100,000 equivalent or more will be fully documented. For expenditures below that level,
withdrawal applications will be supported by Statements of Expenditure (SOE) certified by the PCU
Project Coordinator and the authorized Treasury Officer of the Ministry of Finance. The required
supporting documentation will be retained by the PCU for at least one year after receipt by IDA of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was madc. This documentation will be
made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon request. The processing,
disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Government
counterpart financing will be managed by the PCU in coordination and cousultation with the MOF.
3.26    Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Government will establish,
maintain and operate under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the PCU,
denominated in US Dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. Payments of eligible expenditure (works,
goods, furniture, specialist services, training) may be made by the PCU out of the Special Account.
Upon receipt of the Government's request, IDA will deposit into the Special Account an initial
amount of US$500,000 which amount is judged adequate to cover about four months of eligible



- 27 -
expenditures under the Project. The Special Account will be replenished on a monthly basis or when
the undisbursed balance falls below an amount equal to 75% or less of the initial deposit. Full
documentation will accompany reqvests for the replenishment of the Special Account. In addition,
monthly bank statements of the Spec.ial Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower will
accompany all replenishment requests.
3.27    The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOF) has introduced new procedures to be carried
out by the Treasury Department to monitor the flow of funds deposited in special accounts established
for public institutions, such as a Special Account in the Bank of Albania opened by the Treasury
Department for the PCU under the proposed Project. The MOF assigns a code number identifying
each Special Account, as well as an item code number for different categories of eligible expenditure.
To inform the Treasury of the expenditures under the Special Account, tbe PCU will submit a
monthly statement indicating the amount and category (as defined by the Treasury) of each payment.
3.28    Payments of works and furniture contracts administered by the district Economic Centers
will also be subject to the MOF requirements. The PCU issues to the Economic Officer of each
District Economic Center an authorization to spend the funds for the project-related works and
furniture contracts in the district. The DisTrict Economic Officer will verify the amount and purpose
of payment stated in the invoice submitted by the local contractor or furniture supplier, and forward
the invoice with its certification to the PCU. The PCU will, in turn, issue instructions to effect
payment out of the Special Account.
3.29    Accounting of Proiect Funds and Audits. Separate project accounts will be maintained by
the PCU. The project accounts, including the PCU accounts and Special Account, will be audited in
accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank (March 1982). IDA will be provided within six months of the end of each Government
fiscal year, an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, on disbursements against certified
SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs'submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications.
3.30    Retroactive Financine. The Project will provide retroactive financing (up to US$900,000
equivalent) for advance procurement and implementation activities (contracting of training and
equipment for the PCU and district Economic Centers procured in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA) between project appraisal (January 31, 1994) and Credit effectiveness.
F. Status of Preparation
3.31        Project Preparation. The Project is in a state of preparation which will permit timely
implementation. Coordinating and implementing responsibilities of the PCU and MOE institutional
units have been agreed upon with the MOE, and the PCU is operational. For the school
rehabilitation program: (i) the first year's implementation program for civil works has been defined
and agreed with !DA; (ii) architectural drawings of prototype eight-year and elementary schools have
been completed; and (iii) local procurement processes and documentation for civil works have been
drafted following IDA provisions. Parallel capacity-building activities, supported by Japan and Swiss
Grant financing, are underway and have laid the groundwork to initiate immediately the capacity
building activities supported by the Project.



- 28 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1     The benefits of this first phase of IDA assistance will derive chiefly from rehabilitation of
facilities. Functional buildings and classrooms newly refurbished with windows, heaters and basic
furniture will help to preserve essential educational services. Improved facilities will remove a major
disincentive for school attendance and impediment to teaching and learning. The capacity-building
activities will begin the longer-term process of developing the professional capability of central-level
institutions and helping the Government to better manage the activities of external donors offering
assistance for education. Development of a textbook provision policy and an approach to
restructuring the organization of publishing, printing and distributing textbooks is expected to lead to
greater involvement of the private sector in educational publishing.
B. Risks
4.2     The principal risk lies in the capability of the MOE and its district level agencies to carry
out quickly an intensive school rehabilitation program in Albania's present conditions and with inputs
from several major donors. Even if local institutions are well-organized and technical preparation is
thorough, the country's severely handicapped transport, communications and banking infrastructure
and center versus local administration frictions may pose formidable obstacles. This risk is mitigated
somewhat by MOE's experience in 1993 with implementation of school rehabilitation with budgetary
funds, most of which was undertaken via local competitive contracting. Implementation mechanisms
for IDA-financed school rehabilitation are being rooted in existing institutions and local procedures.
Albania's major external partners in education-IDA, European Union, Soros Foundation and
UNICEF-are collaborating to avoid potential duplication of effort, to be mindful of local absorptive
capacity, and to develop jointly procurement and implementation processes that are effective under
local conditions. An additional risk is that rehabilitated buildings could fall prey to pilfering and
neglect, as in the past. Selection of schools to be covered under the Project will favor conununities
where there is already evidence of school security arrangements and regular maintenance. IDA will
also review anmually with the Government the arrangements for financing preventive maintenance in
the education system.



-29 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMNDATION
Aereements Reached at Negotiations
5.1     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) schools to be covered in the School Repair Program will be selected by the Economic
Centers only if they have: (i) a certificate of the relevant district confirming that the
school and school site, with land title, is permanent within the district; (ii) an approval
of the Economic Center on the structural soundness of the school; and (iii) an assurance
from the school management on building maintenance and security. Priority will be
given to the schools with the highest student per classroom ratio (para. 2.5);
(b) by November 30 each year, it will provide IDA with the detailed program for school
repair/replacement in the forthcoming year (para. 2.5);
(c) in its annual budget submission to Parliament, the Government will maintain recurrent
xpenditures for eight-year education, expressed as a percentage of overall recurrent
expenditures, at a level at least equivalent to that provided in 1994 (para. 3.3);
(d) by November 30 each year, it will reviev! jointly with IDA the: (i) draft education
sector budget and sources of financing; and (ii) the progress in implementing the
adjustment of teacher numbers, including monitoring of the absolute number of teachers
in the sector and trends in student:teacher ratios at all levels (para. 3.3);
(e) the MOE will prepare and furnish to IDA every April 30 and October 31 a consolidated
report of the status of project implementation (para. 3.10); and
(f) by June 30, 1996, it will undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the Project
(para. 3.11).
Recommendation
5.2     Subject to the above, the proposed operation will provide a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of SDR 6.9 million (US$9.6 million equivalent) to Albania on standard IDA terms, with 40 years
maturity.



Annexes
Annex 1: Basic Country Data
Annex 2: School Infrastructure and Rehabilitation
Annex 3: Summary of Capacity Building Activities
Annex 4: Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 5: Procurement Plan
Annex 6: Disbursement Schedule
Annex 7: Implementation Schedule
Annex 8: Project Monitoring
Annex 9: Supervision Plan
Annex 10: Materials in Project File



-30- -M    1
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABIUATION AND CAPACfTY BUILDING PROJECT
Basc Country Data
Year'
Demonranhy
Total Population (million)                          3.38 million                             1992
Density (pop./sq.km)                                 118                                     1992
Percentage of Population in Rural Areas               64                                     1990
Population Growth Rate (annual rate)                  2                                      1991
Economy and Labor Force
GDP (US$ million)                                    692                                      1992
Annual Per Capita GDP (US$)                          204                                     1992
Total Labor Force (million)                         1.68 million                              1992
Male  (%)                                     48                                      1992
Female (%)                                    52                                      1992
Labor Force Participation Rate (% of labor force)     74                                     1992
Education
Gross Enrollment Ratios (% of relevant age cohort)
Primary                                       94                                      1992
Chang-                                       - 6 %                               1992:1989
Secondary                                     45                                      1992
Change                                       -34 %                               1992:1989
Health
Infant Mortality (per '000 live birth)                31                                     1990
Hospital bed (per 10.000 inhabitants)                 44                                     1990
Population per physician                             731                                     1990
Population per para-medical personnel                292                                     1990
Life Expectancy (years)                               73                                     1990
Source: Albanian Ministry of Economy, Stistics Bureu, Wodld Bank and RF staff esimats.
t   Data for 1991 and 1992 dat ar estmats.



-31- 31X  2
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BuvlLDING PROJECT
School Infsratcture and Rehabilitation
School Rehabilitation Requirements
1.    Background. During 1993, the Ministry of Education (MOE) and its 37 district level school
supply/building works units called Economic Centers undertook a survey of school rehabilitation
needs, with technical assistance financed under the Japan Grant. The assessment differentiated
classrooms that could be repaired from those that were unsalvageable and needed replacement. The
survey of the educational physical plant revealed ar infrastructure deteriorated to the point where it
impedes learning. Problems are wide-ranging-broken or missing windows, collapsing roofs and
walls, non-functioning or non-existent sanitary facilites and heating equipment. The age of the
infrastructure, poor building standards, lack of preventive maintenance, and damage from vandalism
during the transition period (December 1990 to March 1992) resulted in the need for either repair or
complete replacement of an average of 60 percent of the total number basic and secondary school
classrooms: 38 percent of preschool classrcoms, 57 percent of classrooms in schools for grades 1-4,
70 percent of the eight-year school classrooms, and 51 percent of secondary classrooms.
2.    The MOE estimated (January 1994) that the total cost of rehabilitating school buildings,
furniture and equipment of the school system (pre-schools to middle schools) to minimum reasonable
standards would amount to about US$80.8 million. The MOE FY93 budget provided US$3.7 million
for infrastructure investments, out of the total state investment budget of US$85 million. The
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOF) expects investment allocations to increase during 1994-96,
and is increasing MOE's investment budget allocation to about US$J.0 million annually, beginning in
1994. The combined 1993 and 1994 MOE investment budgetary allocations are to be proportionately
distributed for the repair of all schools in all districts. This method of resource allocation would
mean that none of the 2,400 schools would have been completely rehabilitated at the end of the year,
as the available resources would only cover an average 27 percent of the repair needs of each school.
The Proposed Project
3.    The proposed project would (a) cover a part of these overall needs and would build upon the
Government's investment budget resources, and (b) build upon the work launched under the Albania
Critical Imports Project (which included an injection of materials for school building repair) with
support for a more systematically developed school rehabilitation program. In keeping with the
Govermment's strategy of protecting the base of the education system, the Project funds would only
attend to eight-year and elementary (grades 1-4) schools, but would focus on a limited number of
school sites, such that each school financed by the Project would be completely repaired or replaced
at the end of the implementation period. The following table illustrates the total school rehabilitation
requirements, the schools covered by the MOE's 1993 and 1994 investment budgets, and the funding
gap. The proposed project would finance part of this gap.



- 32-                                                ANNEX 2
Table 1. School Rehabilitation Requirements
I                        3       NNumber      3             Costs in USS Mitlion
Of ~ ~~~~~~~ -------   ------   --------          -----
*     E&dcatianat              Classroos        it Repairs    tReptlacement    Sutotat
Level           ---------         -         I-     1------I------ ------ ------  TOTAL:
I Repairs iRepLacemtcUorks I F&Eq IVorks , F&Eq 39korks   F&Eq
IPRE-SCHOOLS                                                                I ,
Total Needs '    1017         348    1.1 1 2.4    2.5 1 0.5 1 3.6    2.9            6.5
,Covered by MOE Btudget        277         14    0.3 1 0.2    0.1    0.1    0.4    0.3         0.7
IBalance (Other Finan)         740       334    0.8 ' 2.2    2.4 1 0.4    3.2    2.6           5.8
I                        I         I          i              I       I      I       1      I    
,ELEMENTARY              ,
Total Needs 1    1295         553    1.7    2.0    4.0    0.7    5.7    2.7         8.4
,Covered by MOE Budget         253         16    0.5    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.7    0.3   1 t.0
*               Batance       1042 I     537    1.2    1.8    3.8    0.6    5.0    2.4 1  7.4
X I , . , , .                I            ... . I....  I. ,..   . ,...I....  I... i
*     of which PROJECT         229        55    0.5    0.3    0.7    0.1    1.1    0 Q.5 I   1.6 1
% covered              22%,       loXI                                      i      i I      I
f   I   ... .... .,  .... ... ..I.                      I  .  .  I    I       I ., .......... I
1EIGHT-YEAR SCHOOLS     ',
Totai Needs       8407       1594    7.2   19.1   20.8    3.4   28.0   22.5    50.5
'Covered by MOE Budget 1    960           82    1.9    1.7 t  1.0    0.1    2.9    1.8         4.7
saLance       7447       1512 1 5.3   17.4   19.8    3.3   25.1 0 20.7    45.8
*                                   .         iW. . .. ....  I ....   ....I....   ....I.   ....... *   -  I 
*     of  htAch PROJECT 1    1402 3       145    2.8 1 2.0    1.8    0.4    4.5 1 2.3          6.9 0
Xcovered               19%X      lo%, (
---------------------.- ---      - -      ------     I ------    t ------    I ------ 0 ------ ---I-- ------ -------
1MIDDLE SCHOOLS                                                      I     It
II         Total Needs        3958        186    2.1 110.4 I 2.41  0.5 I 4.5   10.91   15.40
,Covered by MOE Budget           0         17    0.6 1 0.9 1 0.1    0.1 , 0.7    1.0 |   1.7
IBalance (Other Finan) 1   3958           169 ,  1.5    9.5    2.3    0.4    3.8    9.9    13.7
0~~~2~               t                                                      22= ====   ===    f=0ss0==,====3===      ==
ITOTAL INVESTMENTS
Total Needs      14677       2681 1 12.1   33.9 729.7 0 5.1 0 41.8   39.0 1 80.8
----------------------   -------- -  ------ --  ---   - -     ------ I O  O  O
PROJECt COVERAGE        1631       200    3.2    2.31  2.41  0.5    5.71  2.8            8.51
X               ==s==l ====  ==== =y=I ==== I                  == . ==Its      : I
4.       Selection Criteria. Schools to be covered in the School Repair Program  are being prioritized
and selected by the Economic Centers using mandatory criteria: (a) that district authorities have
certified that the school and school site (with land title) is to be permanent within the diFtrict network;
(b) that the Economic Center has certified the building's structural soundness; and (c) that the school
shows evidence of building maintenance and security. Among the schools meeting these
requirements, priority would be given to those schools with the highest student per classroom ratios.
5.       The School Rehabilitation Component comprises the following elements. The Project would
finance the civil works, school furniture, and service fees for local specialist and administrative
support to the Economic Centers:
(a)      School repair program  to comnplete about 1,630 classroom  repairs in selected schools in all
districts, covering about 237 schools or 20% of net repair requirements and furniture needs.
Resources for the repair program would be allocated proportionately among all districts on the
basis of the MOE's 1993 engineering assessment of the nationwide school rehabilitation bill;
and



- 33 -                                 ,x  2
(b)    School replacement Drogram to complete all school building replacement requirements in the
northern districts of Kukes, Puke and Shkoder, covering about 200 classrooms in 38 schools
or 10% of net nationwide school replacement requirements for buildings and school furniture.
Replacement schools would adapt standard school building designs agreed with the Bank at
negotiations.
lmulemeiitation Responsibilities
6.    The implementation of the School Rehabilitation component would be overseen by the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU), which would ensure, in collaboration with the MOE Economnic
Depatment, that agreed standards, schedules, procedures and cost parameters are kept. Additional
architects/engineers would be contracted as necessary to assist the PCU to conduct periodic site
inspections in the districts. The execution of the school rehabilitation program in each district would
be the re-Ionsibility of the relevant district Economic Center which would undertake the procurement
of civil works and furniture contracts, in collaboration with the PCU, and would supervise the works.
Specifically:
(a) The MOE Economnic Department would:
Define total and yearly targets considering program design, agreed priorities and local
implementation capacity. Estimate budgetary needs and counterpart funding requirements,
and prepare appropriate MOE recommendations to MOF for funding outlays, and maintain
general supervision of investment program.
Periodically review of implementation norms.
Establish a MOE Committee (possibly comprising the head of Economic Department, director
of Financial Section, legal advisor and sector specialists) to review bids and recommend
awards for contracts over US$40,000 equivalent.
In collaboration with the Ministry of Construction, establish and maintain a national roster of
prequalified firns.
(b) The District Economic Centers would:
Detemiine all rehabilitation requirements for all schools in their respective districts.
Prepare detailed school by school, technical folders (site plans, school building plans,
technical specifications and other legal or institutional requirements) and cost estimates.
Prepare bidding packages.
Prepare annual implementation targets and detailed implementation schedule of each work bid.
Undertake procurement of works and furniture (preparation of bids through bid evaluation and
contract award).



- 34                                    ANNEX 2
Supervision and continuous quality control of construction works, measurement of completed
works for payment of contractors.
In cases where at least three quotations cannot be obtained for small repairs or furniture
supply in remote areas, administer the execution of the work.
Provide quarterly implementaion status report to the MOE.
Execution of the Project Component
7.    The implementation of this component comprises three phases:
(a) School selection. The PCU would collaborate with the MOE Economic Department and the
district Economic Centers to ensure that the agreed school selection criteria and school design
standards are applied. The PCU would define with each Economic Center the yearly school
rehabilitation targets and resource needs, considering local implementation capacity and
priorities. The MOE has prepared and agreed with IDA during negotiations the implementation
plan for the first year's activities under the School Rehabilitation Component that specifies the
schools selected according to the agreed criteria. Each November during the Project, the
Govermnent would provide the Bank with the detailed program for school repair/replacement in
the forthcoming year.
(b) Bidding and contract award. District Economic Centers will implement the civil works
bidding/contracting processes covering the schools in their respective jurisdictions. Each
Economic Center is preparing detailed technical folders, describing physical needs, building
plans and technical specifications, furniture requirements, cost estimnates for the refurbishing, as
well as other legal or institutional requirements; and bidding documents for school
rehabilitation/refurbishing contracts using the standard formats prepared by the PCU and agreed
with IDA. The schools to be refurbished would be grouped into "bidding packages" considering
physical location or difficulty of execution. These packages would be cleared by the PCU, and
resources ascertained before the bidding process is initiated by the Economic Centers. Contract
packages below US$40,000 would be awarded directly by the Economic Centers; contracts in
excess of US$40,000 would be awarded by the PCU.
(c) Construction. Each Economic Center would administer the civil works contracts within its
jurisdiction, and would be responsible for monitoring contractor performance and quality of
construction, measuring completed works, and processing payments to civil works contractors.
The PCU would manage the flow of Special Account and Government counterpart funds to each
Economic Center. The PCU would ensure that the Economic Centers keep appropriate accounts
of all works transactions financed by the Project, and verify that civil works contracts have been
properly executed and guarantees obtained before final turnover and payments are made to
contractors. Each Economic Center would forward periodic reports on the school rehabilitation
implementation progress to the PCU, in time for the PCU to include these accounts in the semi-
annual progress reports submitted to MOE authorities and IDA.



ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Summary of Capacity Building Activities
Priority Areal                          Inputs                        Expected Outputs              Estimated Base Cost/ Financing
Activity                                           _                                        .   Arrangement'
PLANNING & MANAGEMENT !                                               I
INFORMATION                      a                                    j
Governance                     ' Japan Grant TA                     | At least two education governance              J Japan Grant
* reform scenarios presented to
;                         | ~~~~~~~Council on Education Reforrn and
Management
Rural Planning                  tJapan Grant TA                      * Model and alternative resource    I
scenarios presented to Council on   I
I                                   | Education Reform and Management
I                                   I                                    i
Computerization Pilot            j 15 months local TA                t Trained personnel and functioning  'II          US$ 106,00
m3-4 months external TA            pilot system in 3 districts
5 computer workstations           t
Management Training              External fellowships               I Wider familiarity in Albania with   a          US$ 75,000
I approaches to education
,____ L                             e managem._nt in OECD countries    L
Ibis sumnmary details a program of capacity-btuilding activities supported by muldple sources of financing. Base costs shown are for project-funded activities. The shaded areas denote
acdvities fiumded by ganats mobilized durig prject pmpaation.



QUALITY ASSURANCEill
Strategic Planning            jJapan Grant TA                    ,Pedagogic Institute work plan with  3Japan Grant
t                         | ~~~~~~~~timetables; working groups in j
?                         | ~~~~~~~~~defined suib-areas 
Knowledge Base                l: 3 days x 100 local participants  jGeneral knowledge in Albania of   tus$ 84,000
6 months external training         approaches to education quality 
tmaterials, video equipment       tassurance 
|                         | ~~~~~~~~Resource library of videotaped t
"                         j ~~~~~~~~~seminars and related print materials '
Assessmient Training            External fellowships and study    i Core staff trained for CSenter of    lUS$ 84,Q000
'visits                             Assessment 
iCons:l-tant services' 
Twinning                        16 study visits                     Established linkage with a similar            US$ 44,000
i consulting services             ffinstitution in an OECD country 
TE-XTBOOK IMPROVEMENT                                      
Publishing Quality and Cost-   to Study visits                      Policy-makers and key staff of   11           US$ 69,000
Effectiveness                 l2 local courses (Publishing        lpublishing entities better oriented to'
lManagement, Financial            lpractices of textbook provision in a'
3Managemnent)                     3market economy 
Accessory equipment for textbook             
lpublishing house                 t 
Development of Textbook Policy    Roundtable on textbook policy   8"Action playwing                           U LK Know-How Fund
and Commercial Environment   It                                                                       t
i External training                ttPreparation of textbook policy and  tUS$ 44,00
t                         tt ~~~~~~~~restructuring plan by local workingX
_         .    |                                  ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~groupl



PROJECT COORDINATION                | Contracted staff,                      Established MOE unit which can                    ITS$ 375,000
UNIT                                | external consultant assistance,      I facilitate procurement, monitor
basic office equipment for MOE       * project implementation and
I and Economic Centers and             I coordinate multiple sources of
vehicles,                            I external financing for MOE
l  external training,                   activities
_  visits                              a
RESTRUCTURING                       a                                      ,                                      a
SECONDARY EDUCATION                 a                                      l                                      l
Strategic Planning Capacity       j External training                    j Strategic capaciiy in the Middle      i        Swiss Grant Facility
Swiss Grant TA                         Schools Department that can be
built upon by further donor          a
|                            ~~~~~~~~~assistance 
Experinental Network                9 days x 40 local participants         Curriculum famework relating          l
Extetnat training                     general, vocational, technical and
i Swiss Grant TA                     i training components to their         I
financing implications               j
Inter-Ministerial Collaboration     Study visits                           A model process for gauging
Swiss Grant TA                         demand and need for; 
technical/vocational education and
training at tfe local level
j A tested marketing information
system for local education and       I
tAi a iing needs
Acadenmic Organization              2 months MOE staff                     ' Te, infrastructure identified to
S Extemnal training                  i translate occupational sector
I Swiss Grant TA                        training needs into curricula
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____   i_______ ____   program s
i._  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - : _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ i _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ i _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ = _ _ _ _   _ _ _ : _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ! _ _ _
___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ _  ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ I    ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __



School Rehablation and Capacity Buidbi Poje
Expendiue Account by Compornet - Bae Costs
(USS 000)
Key Sector CapadUes
Quality
Assurance
Planning   In Basic
and     Education               Project             Physical
School    Management (Pedagogic  Textbook  Coordination         Conngemnies
Rehabilitton  Information  Institute) Improement    Unit      Total     %    Amount
1. Investmen Costs
A. Cvi Wofts                                       5,897 8               -                .-    5,897.8    9.8  578.4
B. Fumiture                                        2,796.5               -                -          4.0    2,802.5    9.8  274.9
C. Equipm   and Matetbl                                 -        37.5          -        5 0        163.0     205.5   10 0    20.6
D. Tec       Assitance                                           60.0       20.0       240          96.0     200.0    5.0   100
E. Local Tochnical Assistance                           -         0.o -                                        0.5   100       0.1
F. Taindin
Extedl Trairnig                                                75 0      132 0       44 0         45.0     296 0     5 0    14 8
Local Training                                                            S 60o0     40.0            -      100.0    5.0    5.0
8ubt n                                      _           -.       75.0      1920        84.0         45.0     396.0    5.0   19.8
Tol Ins t *.sts                                      8.696.4      t73.0      212.0      113.0        308.0    9,502.4    9.5  903.7
BI. Recurrent Costs
A. Salies andWages                                      -           -                               17 5       17 5
B. E   _et Opon & Mantenance                                      7.5                               33.4      409    10.0    4.1
C. Buildig Opeton ad Main tnane                                                           -            -         .       . 
0. Materials and Supplies                                    1-          -                -          6.0      16.0   10.0    1.6
Tdal Recurrent Costs                                      -         7.5         -           -         66.9      74.4    7.6    5.7
Total 8ALEUNE COSTS                                   8,696.4      180.5     212.0      1t3.0        374.9    9,570.8    9.5  909.4
PhpkfIc2taCntingencles                               652.9       11.3       10.6         59         28.7     909.4       -
PrIceContingencIes
Inflation
Local                                            582.3        0.6        1.3        0 2          3.4     587.7
Foweign                                          206.6        6.3        5.6        4 4         10.0     232.9       -
Subtol  nflation                                   788 9        6.9        6.8        4.6         13.4     620.6       -       -
Deva                                                              ,,,
Sultolal Price Contingencies                        788.9         6.9       6.8         4.6        13.4      820.6    8.9   72.9
TolM PROJECT COSTS                                   10.3312      198.7      229.4       123.5       417.0   11306.8    8.7  982.3
Taxes                                               805.5         1.9         -           *         13 3     820.7    8.5   69.6                 >
Forelg Exchange                                    2.934.2      180.9      173.8      118.2       343.0    3,749.9    9.5  317.0



School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project
Table 1. School Rehabilitation
Detailed Costs
(USS '00)
Base Cost                              Totals Including Contingencies
94195    95196     96197     97198     Total    94196    2i59E      96197     97/98     Total
1. Investmnat Costs
A. CMI Wors
Repaihs                                 775 9    1,031.6    96t..    455.6   3,233.0    881.7   1,225.0   1,203.6    590.8    3.901.0
SubstUhon                               576.0    886.8    614.8    360.4   2,438.0    654.5   1,053.0    762.9    467.3    2,937.8
Supeivlslon                              56 7     56.7      56.7      56.7    226.8      60.5      61 6      62 7      63.8     248 5
Subtotal Civl Works                     1,408.6   1,975.1   1,641.4    872.7   5,897.8   1,596.7   2,339.6   2,029.1   1,121.9    7,087.4
8. FurrItufe and Equipment
Repal                                   483.0    720.8    664.5    318.0   2,186.3    543.5    831.3    785.6    385.3    2,545 7
Substftllon                             116.6    179.0    126.0       83.0    504.6    131.2    206.5    149.0    100.6         587.2
Transpo,VAssembly Costs                  26 9     26.9      26.9      26.9    107.6       28.7     29.2      29.7      30.3      117.9
Subtotal Fumiture and Equlpmnent          626.5    926.7    017.4    427.9   2,798.5    703.4   1,067.0    964.3    516.2    3,250.8
Total                                      2,035.1   2,901.8   2,458.8   1,300.6   8,696.4   2,300.1   3,406.6   2,993.4   1,638.1   10,336.2
1.



School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project
Table 2. Key Sector Capacities t Planning and Management Information
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                      Totals IncludIng Contngencies
94g5  95196   96197   97198   Total   94195   95196   96197   97/98   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Compu aion and Related Services
Develop Plan                                                   10.0               -       -    10.0   10.7        -       -       -    107
Database Development                                           200        -       -       -    20.0   21.5        -       -            21 5
Local Database Deveiopment                                      0 3           -         -       o3      0.4                             0 4
Data Transfer                                                   00                 -            00      0.0                             a o  -  o 0
Hardware Installation at MOE                                   10.0       ^       -       -    100    10.7                -       -    10 7
Local Hrdware Installation at MOE                               0.1       -       -             01      01        -       -             0 1
Regional Instlalation                                          10 0           -           -    100    10 7        -       -       -    10.7
Local RegIonal Installation                                     0.1       -       -         -     1     0.1           -         -       01
Sysem Impme      n                                             10.0               -       -    10.0    107        -       -       -    10.7
Computer Worhstations at MOE                                   15.0       -       -       -    15.0    16.9       -       -       -    16.9
Computer Worksations for the Distrlcts                         22.5               -       -    22 5    25.3       -       -       -    25 3
Subtotal Computoation and Related Services                       98.0               -       -    98.0   107.2       -       -       -   107.2
D. Management TraInIng
External Training                                              200    35.0    150       50    75.0    215    38.5    169        5.8    82.7
Total lnvestnent Costs                                            118.0    35.0    15.0     50   173.0  128.7   38.5    169         5.8   1900
R. Recurrnt Costs
A. Equmpeni Operation and Malntenance at MOE                      0 8     0.8     0 8     0.8     3 0     0.8     0 9     0 9     0 9     3 5
B. EqulintOperatn andMalntenanceintheDistrkts                     11      1.1     1.1     1.1     4.5     1.3    1.3      13      1.4     5.3
Total Recurfent Costs                                               1.9     1.9     1.9     1.9    7.5    2.1       2.2    2.2      2.3     8.8
Totl                                                               119.9   36.9    16.9      6 9   180.5  130.8   40.7    19.1       8.1   198.7



School Rehabilitation and Capacity Buidmg Project
Table 3. Key Seclor Capaties I Quallty Assurance In Basic Education
Detaled Costs
(U5$ 000)
Bas Cost                      Totals Including ConungencIa
9419s   96    96197   97198   Total  94195   95196   9197   971       Total
L lIwestent Costs
A. Assessme  Training
1. External Training
Long-tmn Couis                                12.0   24.0       -       -    36 0    12.9   26.4       -       -    39 3
Shor-term Course                              8.0   16.0        -       -   24 0     8.6   17.6        -       -   26.2
Subtotal External Training                     20.0   40. 0               -   60 0    21.5   44.0            -        65.5
2. Study VisRs                                 16.0       -       -       -    16 0    17 2              -            17 2
3. Lead Consulting                              8.0       -               -    8 0     8 6       -       -             a 8 6
Subtotal Assessmont Training                     44.0   40.0        -      -   84 0    47 3    44.0        -       -   91.3
S. Knowledge ase
t. Extema Tainig/Short-term Courses               -   24 0        -      -   24 0        -   26 4        -       -   26 4
2. Seminars
Local TrainIng/Consutants                    48.0       -       -       -   48 0    51.6               -       -   51.6
Local Trainigmapenses                         9.0                             9.0    9.7                             9.7
Local TrahlnNsatdals                         3.0       -       -             3.0    3.2               -       -    3.2
Subotal Seminaws                               60.0       -       -            800    64.4       -       -       -   644
Subtota Knwtedge Base                            60.0   24.0        -       -    84.0   64.4   26.4        -       -   90.9
C. Twinnin
Extemal Training                               32.0       -       -            32.0   34.4       -       -            34.4
Lead Consul"ig                                 12.0       -       -            12.0   12.9       -         -     -    12.9
Subtotal Twinning                                44.0       -       -       -   44.0   47.3        -       -       -   47.3
Total                                              148.0   64.0       -       -   212.0  159.0   70.5        -       -  229.4



SdodRdi d_adCCt&M*Pr*
Tab 4. ft   okt Sa"        I&el Taftoo am*Jvwmd
Potlad COa
osao Cost                      Tols Indle Co ln                            t
419    9Q 0    G0   97198   Tol   Om           mm       NW      97fO1 TOWal
L waimet Cos
A. _mpm- ng P*P aln  alty aNd Cost-Effetlva                                                                                                                           t
1. Equ*awin d ft   Pu*IsNng Hotise                                           SO                -              5.0     5.6       -       -       -     5.6
2. Logol COuWS"
P"b"Momngemn                                                                 -    20.0                     20.0       -    220        -       -    22.0
FiailMan.gunn                                                                -    20.0        -       -    20.0            22.0               -    22.0
S    sl Local COuSe                                                            -    40.0                     40.0            44.0       -       -    44.0
3. EUemal Trab**                                                             12.0    12.0       -       -    24.0    12.9    13.2       -             26.1
Sa*a Isapvin Pub ng Quaty and CeIEfoc                                          17.0    52.0               -    69.0    18.5    572        -        -    75.8
SL Dsdlpmt of Todolt PolkY and Comwmrla Envimonmen5
Eitenma Tanin                                                               20.0       -        -       -    90.0    21.5       -       -       -    21.5
Pfepuaaon of Tndbook Poicy ocumnt                                             .0    16.0        -       -    240      8       17.       -  -          262
Suh8e Deadeebp   oftoxfTtboel Pdlky wdCommercbl Envlfonment                   28.0    16.0        -       .    44.0    30.1    17.6               -    47 7
Tots)                                                                            45.0    08.0       *       -   113.0    48.6    74.9        -           1235



School Rehabilitalion and Capacity Building Project
Table 5. Key Sector Capacities I Project Coordination Unn
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost                     Totals Including Contingencies
94195   95196   96197   97198   Total  94J95   95196   96197   97198   Total
1. Investmont Costs
A. Equipment
Computer, etc                                 13.0      -       -       -    13.0    146       -               -    146
Furniture                                     4.0               -             4.0    4.5       -       -       -    4.5
Vehticles                                     50.0      -       -       -    50 0    56 3       -      -       -    56 3
Office Equmnent for Economic Centers         100 0      -       -       -   100 0   112 5      -       -           112 5
Subtotal Equipment                             167.0      -       -       -   167 0   187 9      -       -           1879
8. Technical Assistance                         64.0   16.0   16.0        -   96 0    68 7    17 6    18 1       -   104 4
C. External Training                            30 0    15.0      -       -   45.0   32 2    16.5        -       -   48 7
Total lnvestmentCosts                            261.0   31.0   16.0        -   3080   2889    34.1    181         -  341 1
n. Recurrent Cost.
A. Salaries
Proec Director                                0.7    0.7    0.7       0 7     2.9    0.7    0.7      08      0 8     3 0
Procurement Offcer                            0.6    0.6    0.6       0 6     2 4     0.6    0.8    0.6      0 6     2 5
Archtect                                       0.6    0 6     0.6     0 6     2 4     0.6     0 6     0.6    0 6     2 5
Accountant                                     0.6    0 6     0.6     0 6     2 4     0 6     0.6     0 6    0 6     2 5
Secaetaty                                      0 4    0 4     0.4    0.4      1 7     0 4     0.4    0.4     0 4     1.8
Support Staff                                  1.4    1.4    1.4      1 4     5 8     1.5    1.5     1 5     1.5     6 0
Subtotal Satarles                               4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4   17 5         4.5    4.5    4.6    4.7   18.3
B. Equipment Operation and Maintenance          8 4     8.4    8.4      8 4    33.4     9 4     9 6    9 9    101    39 0
C. Materals and Supplies                        4.0    4.0      4 0     4 0    16 0     4.5    4.6     4 7     4 8    18.7
Total Recurment Costs                             16.7   16 7    16.7   16.7   66.9   18.3   18.8   19.2   19.7   76.0
Total                                            277.7   47.7   32.7   16.7  374.9  307.2   52.9   37.3.   19.7  417.0



_44  -                                           ANNEX  5
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Procurement Plan
.---------- I------            ---------- ,-------- ,, -- ,,,--- ---,............................
jwf'aer off Total  3ethod          SCdUte of fNajor Activities
Tr   of             Pwkag    I   --anSt    of     ---1-----I-- I..     -       I.........
contracts/Pacakages     .          -I Procure-i m   of   Bid   contract ,Contract
.                             hXTot/Yearlyl iS8OGX  t O snt   0Ocu.ents  Opening     Award  ISignaturel
-----------------    -- - -   i.   ...      .   .       ..   ...........   --------   ;-- - - -  --------.-   -- - - -   !--- -- -  ........... ..X ........ 
CIVIL WORKS: , 
School Repairs        Total   175         53.900                                |
Group 1                           25       88 s  LS/SLCB   07/94     08/94      09/94    09/94
Group 2                           60    $1,220 I LS/SLCB   02/95     04/95      05/95    05/95   i
Group 3                           60    $1,200 I LS/SLCS   02/96   1 04/96   105/96      06/96
Group 4                           30      S600 I LS/SLCB   02/97     04/97      05/97    06/97
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                        I    I     
School Replacements   Total 1 38          S2.940 1
Group 1                            5      S660    SLC8      10/94     12/94    05/95     02/95
Group 2                           15   $1,050   $SLCC      09/95      11/95     12195    01/96
Group 3                           11      $760    SLC8     09/96      12/96     01/97    02/97
Group 4                            7      $470 fSLCB       09/97      12/97    01/98    02/98
.-  .........-.........'
FtIRIETR:I                                                                                I
Repaired SchooLs      Total   111         S2 642
Group 1                            7      S567     LCB     08/94      12/94     10/94     10/94
Group 2                           37      $855  LCO/LS    04/95   1 06/95       07/95    08/95
Group 3                           37      S810   LCS/LS    02/96   1 05/96   1 06/96     07/96
Group 4                           30 1   S410   LCB/LS    03/97   1 05/97       06/97    06/97
Replaced Schools      Total   38              610 I                             I         I
Group 1                            5      $137     LCS     11/95   j 01/96      02/96      03/96
Group 2                           17      $212   LC8/LS    05/96   1 07/96   1 09/96      10/96
Group 3                           11      $154 I LC8/LS    05/97     07/97      09/97     10/97
Group 4                            7      $107 I LCB/LS    02/98     04/98      05/98    06/98
t ~~~~~- -- - - -          .............   -- - - -  -- - - -  ---- ---  -- - - -  -- - - -  ..... ..
, EaJ'"E,lTnts    Totat    4             230
Cnwputers,office equipnent           1      $S10     IS      06194         --    08/94   , 08/94
|Vehicles               ,1                    $ 50  |IS   06/94                    07 ,O/94      07/94
Totat  I                      I ~~~~~~I            III
,                  It          I         *         *         .
Auditing                    7firm    5 _t    S96 _COII5   i 09/95   |   -        111/9      12/95 0
oPlaningComputeriuatifn    "firm    2  1      65 150   COS   09/94                11/94     0 12/94
ehAssessment                1individual,    S21 , CON$ tS    09/94               11/94    17194
Textbook Inprovement         Irdvdl          2      OS ta/4 1 -                  11/94   |12/94 
oTraining/FeUctwships       $individut,   S430    CONS       06/94              108/94   1 08/94
I              I   ---I -            - --7       
LEGENO: SLCS Simptified Local Comptitive Bidding in accordance with
procedures and documtentation agreed with (DA
LCR LaC41 Competitiye Bidding in accordance with IDA
Procuremei t Guidetines
LS  Local Shopping: at teast 3 quotations from qualified supptiers
IS  Intertistl Shopping: 3 qwtations from suppliers from
ttt teast three eligible source counttries
DP Direct purchaste from pPlisher or copyright owner
CON  IDA procedureS for COntraCting consulting services



ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Profile by Semester of Calendar Year
Disbursement     Disbursement       Cumulative        Cumulative                           Comparative
per seinester    per semester      Disbursement    Disbursement                        Disbursement Profiles
in US$ thcusand    as % of total    in US$ thousand    as % of total    Einergengy Reconstructions     Standard IDA -- Albania
1994/2                 81                I                 81               1                             0                          8.8
199511                195                2                275               3                             14                        12.6
1995/2              1,264               13              1,539              16                            22                         20.5
1996/1              1,189               12              2,728              29                            38                         40.3
1996/2              1,478               15              4,206              44                            54                         59.2
199711              1,447               15              5,653              59                            66                         79.4
1997/2              1,269               13              6,922              72                            82                          100
199811              1,260               13              8.182              86                            94
199N12                685                7              8,867              93                            98
1999/1                685                7              9,552             100                           100



ALBANIA
School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project
Estimated Cumulative Disbursement Profiles
120       ...         .
100 .. .     . . . .. . .. . . . . . .
20
20
1995       1996        1997        1998        1999
|  Project LuEmergency Reconstr.   Standard IDA (Albania)



ALBANIA SCHOOL REHABUTATION AND CAPACITY BULDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULIk
YEAR      1994         9         1996       1997        1993
Quarter
Qmab tlj 11 11 11 1111 |~ I1 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11l11 11 i1
Civil Works, Rtepirs and Substintuon
TSD prepare typical school design
PCUITSD prepare standard bidding documents
Group 1: Schoe" Repairs
Select alsiols
DEC preparc detailed plans, bid documents
PCU & IDA review of bid documents
DEC invite bids
Bidders prepare proposals
DEC/PCU evalate bids
IDA concurrence on proposed award                                                                                                   P
Contract sitgnn g
ConstruCtion period
Defects liability period
Group 1: Scbhol Subsil utrdb
DEC prepare detailed plans. bid docunents
PCU & IDA review of bid docmnts
DEC invite bids
Bidders prepare proposals
DECIPCU evaluate bids
IDA concurrence on proposed award
Contract signing
Construction pertiod
Defects liability period
Group 2: School Repkirs
Select schools
DEC prepare detailed plans, bid docuntents
PCU & IDA review of bid documents
DEC invite bids
BHmers prepare proposals
DECIP.'i -al.ato bids
IDA concurrence on p ropoc^  award
Contract signing
Construction peiod1
Dcfects liability period                                                              I 1    11     11!  1



YEAF      1994       1995        t996        1997       t991
Quarter
inontletj 11111   lii  II II II ii II II II II II II IIII
Group 1&Scbool Substitutio
Select schools
DEC pfpare detailed platns bid documnems
PCU & IDA review of bid documeitt
DEC invite bids
t3dders prepare proposals
DECIPCU evaluate bids
IDA concurtrece on proposed award
Contract signing
Construction period
Defects liability period
Gromp 3: School Repats
Select schools
DEC prepate detatled plans, bid documents
PCU & IDA review of bid documenat
DEC invite bPis
Btdders ptepare proposals
DEC/PCU eyaluate bids                                                                                                               or
IDA concurtence on proposed iward
Contract signing
Construction petiod
Defects liability perted
Group 3: School Stbstitttion
Select sctools
DEC ptepare detailed plans, bid documents
PCU & IDA review of bid documents
DEC invite bids
Bidders prepare proposals
DEC/PCU evaltuate bids
IDA concurtence on proposed award
Contract signirtg
Construction period
Defects liability period
Group 4: School Repairss
Select schiools
DEC prepare detailed plans, bid documents
PCU & IDA review of bid docurents
DEC invite bids
Bldders prepare proposals
DEC/PCU evaluate bids                                                                                                                4
IDA concurrence on proposed award
Contract signing
Conistruction period
Defects ls bility period



YEAR      tert        1995        1996        1997        1993
Quarter
tttornttcI 11 lI11 11 1111111 111  1 11 11 11 11 11 ,ii 1t111 11i11
Grotip 4: Sebool Subltutlion
Select schools                                                                                       il 
DEC prepare detailed plans, bid documcnts
PCU & IDA review of bid documents
DEC invite bids
lhiddets prepare prrmpmsals
DEClPt ll evaltiate bids
IDA concurrence oin proposed awaid
Contract signing
Cotnstruction petiod
I)efects liability period
E[ovision of School Furnituce
TSD prcparc typical furniture dcsign
PCU/TSD prepare standard btdding documents
Group 1: Furoiture for Repaired Schools
DEC prcparc furiiiurc master lisis
DEC prepare bid proposal forms
PCU/IDA review of bid documenits
DEC invite bids
Furniture suppliers prepare pr4jiiosals
DIEC/PCU evaluate bids
lf)A concurrence on proposed awaul
Contract signing
Manufacture andt delivery
Guarantee period
Group 1 Furnilure for Replaced Schools
DEC prepare furniture master lists
DEC prepare bid proposal forrns
PCU/IDA review of bid documcnts
DEC invite bids
Furnriure suppliers prepare proposals
DEC/PCtl evaluate bids
IDA concurrenice on propose.t .watd
Contract signing
Manufacturc staU dclivery
Gunrantee pe riod
Group 2: Furnittir for Repa.-ed Schools                                                                                                                                              | peril
DEC prepare furniture master lists
DEC prepare bid proposal forms
PCU/IDA review of bid documents
DEC invite bids
rurniture supplicrs preparc proposals
DEC/PCU evaluate bids



YEAR      1994       t995        1996      IS99        1996
Quarte
mounartth 111111111111111 1111111111 liii II   Ii 11 II11 11 1
IDA concurrence on proposed award
Conract signing
Manufacuare and delivery
Guarantee period
Greup 2: Furniture for Replaced Schools
DEC prepare furniure maser lists
DEC prepare bid proposal fornts
l'Ctl/lDA rviewv of bid documents
DEC invite bids
Furniture suppliers prepare proposals
DEC/PCU evaluat bids
IDA concurrence on proposed award
Contract signingg
Manufacture and delivery
Guarantee period
Group 3: Fimulture for Repaired Schooob
DEC prepare furniture naster lists 
DEC prepare bid propmsal forms
PCUWIDA review of bid documents
DEC invite bids
1urniture suppliers prepare proposals
DECIPCU evaluate bids
IDA concurrence on proposed award
Contract signtigL
Manufacture and delivery
Guaramee period
Group 3: FurniUure for Replaced Schools
DEC prepare furniture master lists
DEC prepare bid propousal forms
PCU/iDA review of bid docurnents
DEC invite bids
Iurniture suppliers prepare pritposals
DEC/PCLU evaluate bids
IDA concurrence on proposed award
Contract signing
Mianufacture sod delivery
Guarantee period
Greup 4: Furniure for Repaired Schools
DEC prepare furniture maer lists
DEC prepare bid proposl fom
PCUIIDA review of bi documments
DEC invie bids



YEAR      1994        1991         9s        199        99
Quade?
momt It  11 11 11i 11 11 11 11 1111 11 1111 1ii 111  11 1111 1
Furniture supplieS prepare pmoposabs
DEC/PCU eniuate bids
IDA concufrence on proposed award
Contract signing
Manufacture and delivery
Guaratee pcritd
Group 4: Furniture for Replaced Sebools
DEC prcpare futrnituc amster lists
DEC prepare bid prqmosal forms
PCUIIDA review or bid documnetuls
DEC invite bids
Furniture suppliers prepare proposals
DEC/PCU evaluate bids
IDA concurreee on proposed award
Contract signing
Manufacture and delivery
Guarat period



YESAR     IS99 t       99.t        19f6       1991       t99S
Quat
Plnning atd  Mantagemen Infosnatkn
Confirm selection of three pilot districts
Finalize TORs for tehdkal asistance
Identify and contract external and local consultants
Conduct intial training and briefing
Compile data dictionary
Finalize specifications for hardware and software
Prccure and install hardware and software
Train disinct staff on hardware and software
Implement new data analysis system                                                                                       4
Evaluate hiitial experience with new systems
Organize and carry out Management Tmining Fellowshtps
Quality AssuratCe (Pedagogic Institute)
(The detaled inp1ementation plan for this subcomponent is being developed as pan of the
Pedagugic Institute Stategic Planning process. currently underway, wbich is to be cornpleted in July, 1994.)                                                                    t
Study visus on priority topics
Fellowships on priority topics
Procurement of equipment for the seminars
'Tirana Lecture Series'
Study visits to twin institutes and pilot schools
Evaluate progress in implemienting strategic plan
Develop action plans for further donor suppon
Textbook Improveme_t
Procure an dinstall equipment for textbook publishing house
Carry out external training visits and TA on textbook policy
Finalize TORs for publishing training program
Identify and contract external technical assistance fot sraiiung progrJit_
Deliver training program
Evaluate progress on 3-year resiructuring plan for textbook provision
Project Coordinatirn and Monitoring                                                                       _
Complete staffing of PCU
Finalize TORs for technkal assiswtace to PCUI
Identify and comtract advisor to PCU
Procure vehicles and office eqipmeat for PCUI
Undertake external training for PCU staff
Procure and install office equipment in Economic Centers                     i



- 53 -                             ANNEX 7
8m -
-m
-8
=  -



-54-                                  ANNEX 8
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION & CAPACITY BlILDING PROJECT
Sector and ProLect Monitoring
1.    The School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project will be monitored in three areas:
(a)   key aspects of education sector resources (particularly the adequacy of provision of
recurrent expenditure on 8-year education, preventive maintenance arrangements, and
counterpart investment funding for school rehabilitation);
(b)   monitoring progress in school rehabilitation against targets; and
(c)   setting and monitoring milestones for capacily building activity.
Education Sector Resourc:es Monitorin
2.    IDA and the Government will meet at least annually in November to review the following:
(a)   the draft education sector budget, both investment and recurrent, with particular
reference to the share of the Government's recurrent budget that is allocated to eight-
year education;
(b)   progress in keeping teacher numbers in line with student number changes and policy
developments.
3.    Budget Monitoring. In November of each year, the MOE Economics Departnent would
complete:
(a)    a copy of the Investment Budget Form (page 3) summarizing investment expenditure
during the current year. This will normally be an "agreed/revised budget" [type (b)
in Box I on the form]; however an estimate of the actual expenditure for the current
year [type (fl] may also be available; and
(b)   a further copy of the Investment Budget Forn describing the proposed investmnent
budget for the coming year. This may be a "budget submission" [type (a)1, or may
be an "agreed/revised budget" [type (b)].
This will form the baseline information for the review of the investment budget described above.
4.    In addition, at the same time the Department complete two copies of the Recurrent Budget
Form (page 6, 7 and 8) for the current and coming years, along similar lines. Box IV of the form,
which relates expenditure on eight year education to the overall recurrent expenditure of the
Government of Albania (i.e. across all ministries) will provide evidence that the overall spending on a
key sector of education is not being reduced year on year.



- 55 -AN=  
5.    For both investment and recurrent budgets, year on year comparisons will be supplemented
with a comparison between current budgets and a "baseline" year. Data for 1992 would be used for
this purpose.
6.    For the recurrent budget only, IDA may request a reconciliation between the current year's
agreed budget and next year's proposed one. The form on page 9 would be used for this purpose: it
is designed to show how the coniing year's budget can be built out of the present year's by: allowing
for inflation, taking account of changes in policy, and/or taking account of other changes. These
reconciliations will not be required for every figure in Box II, but only for certain figures identified
jointly by IDA and the MOE where the proposed change seems substantial.



- 56-
ALBANLA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION & CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Ministra of Education: Investment Budget Form
Ministnija e Arsimit: Formulari i Buxhetit te Investimeve
I.    Status of these figures (choose one)
iJoji i te dhenave (zgjidhni njerin prej tyre)
Type Lloji                                    Year Viti    Effective date
Data efekive
a.     Budget submission
Paraqitya e Buxhetit                                   /  /19_
to ne
b.    Agreed/revised budget (full year)                       /  /19_
Buxken per te dilin eshte rene dakort/ose
11 rinshikuar (per nje vit)
c.    Agreed/revised budget (part year) Buzxhetz
per te cdin eshte rene dakort/ose i
rishikuar (per nje periuzdhe kohe)                     1  /19_
from qe nga
to deri ne
d.    Expenditure (full year) (actual)                        /  /19_
Shpenzimet(per nje ut) (akuale)
e.     Expenditure (year to date)                             I  /19_
Shpenzimei (per nje vt dern tani)
f.    Expenditure (full year) (estimate)                      I  /19_
Shpenzimet (per nje vt) _parashilimi)
gI                                                            /  /19_



- 57 -
rL     Budget Tabuation (in million Lek)
Tabela e buxhedt (ne miljona leke)
Pre school  8 year        Secondary        Univers-     Other         Total
Para        schools      schools           ities        expenses      Tosali
shkolla     Shkollat 8    Shko fllat e     Universi-    Shpenzimet
vjecare      mesme            tetet        e tjera
Acad    Voc
E       Profes-
pergfi-  ionale
thlhme
New bui!diag
Ndertesa e re
Reconstruct-ion
Rindertime                            . .                                          ._.__
Equipment
Paisje                               .   ,   =        =             .                       t
Total
_ To_                             __i 11                    I  _ !                     1   _       1



- 58-X 0
III.   Source of funds
Burimi ifondeve
Source (and amount if foreign currency)            Amount in   Committed
Bunmi (dhe sasia n.q.f.eshte me para te huaja)     mfliou Lek   or Planned?
Sasia ne     Te caktuara
milona leke  ose te
plan.  .uara
a.    Ministry of Finance / Government of Albania                 C / P
Ministrija e Financave / Qeverija e Shqipense
b.                                                                C   P
c..                                                               C /p 
d.                                                                C / P
e.                            ----                                C /P
f             -_                                      _.          C /P
h-                                                                C /P 
h.                                                                CfP'_  P
1.                                                                C cp
Total to match Table 11
Totali duhet te perkoje me Tabelen 1I



59 -                                  ANNEX 8
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION & CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Ministry of Education: Recurrent Budget Form
Ministrija e Arsimit: Formulari i Btuxierit re Slzpenzimeve Penodike
Status of these figures (choose one)
Lloji i te dhenave zg/idhni nijerin prej tyre)
Type Lloji                                     Year Viti    Effective date
Data efektive
a.     Budget submission
Paraqiqta e Buxhetit                                    /  /19_
to ne                                                 .
b.     Agreed/revised budget (full year)                       /  /19
Buxheti per te cilin eshte rene dakort/ose
i rishikuar (per nje vit:)
c.     Agreed/revised budget (part year) Buxheti
per te cilin eshte rene dakortlose i
rishikuar (per nje periudhe kohe)                       /  /19_
from qe nga
to deri ne                                    .
d.     Expenditure (full year) (actual)                        I  /19_
Shpenzimet(per nje vit) (aktuale)               __ ___
e.     Expenditure (year to date)                              I  /19_
Shpenzimet (per nje vit den tani)
f.     Expenditure (full year) (estimate)                       /I 19_
Shpenzimet (per nje vit) (parashikirni)
g.                                                             /  /19_



- 60  -                                   ANNEX 8
I.    Budget Tabulation (in million Lek)
Tabela e buxhetit (ne miljona leke)
Pre school  8 year       Secondary        Univers-    Other         Total
Para        schools      schools          ities        expenses     Totali
shlkolla    Shkollat 8   Shkollat e       Universi-    Shpenzime
vjecare     mesme            tete         t e tjera
Acad    Voc
E       Profes-
pergt-  ionale
thslune
Salaries                     _
Pagal
Social Security
etc
Sigurimet
shoqerore, etj.
Transport
Transporti
Scholarships
Bursa
Furniture
Mobilje
Maintenance
Mirembajtja
Textbook
Subsidy
Tekstet
shkollore
Subvencionet
Other operating
Shpenzime te
tjera
ITotal Total       _ _         ____                1      ._____.                          __.



ANNEX 8
HI.    Source of fumds
Bunimi i fondeve
Source (and amount if foreign currency)               Amount in    Committed
Burimi (dhe sasia n.q.f. eshte me para te huaja)      million Lek   or Planned?
Sasia ne     Te caktuar
mitjona leke  ose te
__________planiflkuara
a.     Ministry of Finance / Government of Albania                    C / P
Ministrija e Financave / Qeverija e Shqiperise                  _
b.                                                                    C/ P
C /p
Total to match Table II
Totali duhet te perkoje me Tabelen II
IV.   Expenditure on eight year education (million Lek)
Shpenzimet per arsimin 8-vjecar (ne miljona leke)
a.    Total expenditure on sector (second column of
Table II)
Totali i shpenzimeve sipas ndarjeve (kolona e dyte e
tabeles II)
b.    Total recurrent budget, Government of Albania
(best estimate corresponding to Table I)
Totali i buxhetit te Qeverise shqiptare (vleresimi me
i mire)
c.    (a) as a percentage of (b)
(a) si perqindje e (b)                        __-_-



- 62 -                                 a
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION & CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Ministry of Education: Budact Reconciliation Fom
Ministrja e Arsimit: Formular i Pajtueshmense se Buxheat
a.    Education Sector
Ndarja e aruimit
b.    Recondled from          Year 19   budget / actual
Pajtueshmerja qe nga    viti 19   buxhetil akaual
c.    Reconciled to           Year 19   budget submission / budget
Pajtueshmeria den ne    Vfti 19 _paraqitia e buxhetil buxheni
Deti Hollesira                             million Lek
milona leke
Original budget (b) above
Buxheti iflliml (b) me lart
Inflation                     Percentage rate:
Inflacioni                    Perqindia:
Changes in activity (with brief
descriptions of calculations)                      _
Ndryshime ne veprbntani (me
pershkrime te shkurtra te
perllogaritjeve)
New budget (c) above
Buxheti i rA (c) me tart



- 63-                                    ANNEX 8
7.    Teacher number monitoring. While it is accepted that teachers are assigned to Albanian schools on a
"curriculum staffing" basis, the pupil teacher ratio is nevertheless a key statistic in teacher number monitoring,
and one specified in the monitoring arrangements. The Teacher Number Monitoring Form on pages 11 and 12
sets out to collect this statistic in its Box 1, by tracking movements in the numbers of teachers and of students.
Again, this information would be collected in November of each year.
8.    If the pupil-teacher ratio has not changed year on year, one can argue that the change in the number of
teachers is accounted for entirely by changes in the number of pupils/students. If, however, the pupil-teacher
ratio is observed to have changed, then other factors must also have had an effect. Box m on the teacher
monitoring form sets out to record these factors. Having first identified the change in teacher nunbers which
would have resulted from the change in pupil numbers had a constant pupil-teacher ratio been maintained, it
offers the opportunity for the Ministry to describe the remaining change in teacher nunbers in terms of:
(i)    policy changes - for example towards smaller or larger classes, or the introduction of new
curricula requiring different-sized groups
(ii)   the need to preserve the curriculum when teacher numbers fall in some classes
(iii)  time delays in appointing new teachers or in outplaci., nose no longer needed
(iv)   other explanations which may be relevant.
9.    It is accepted that teacher number information will be more difficult to collect than the budgetary
information. It will almost certainly need to be collected on a district-by-district basis by Ministry staff in the
districts, and subsequently brought together centrally. Yet this information is important if the effectiveness of
the Ministry's approach to managing the teacher supply issue is to be demonstrated.



-64 -
ALBANA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION & CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Ministrv of Education: Annual Teacher Number Monitoring Form
Formulani i Monitorizf mit te Numrit Vjetor te Mesuesve
I.    Movements in Teacher & Pupil Numbers
Leviziet ne Numnin e Mesuesve dhe Nxenesve
Pre school  8 year      Secondary       Univers-    Total
Para       schools      schools         ities        TotalU
shkolla    ShkolIag 8   Shkollat e      Universi-
vjecare     mesme           tetet
Acad   Voc
E       Profes-
pergji-  ionake
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _                    ~~~~~~~~tkhslme
Teacher         1993/4
Numbers (FTE)
Numri i         1994/5
Mesuesve
(FM7) I         +/_
Pupil Numbers   1993/4
(FTE)           1994/5
Numri  i         1 9 /       _ _  _ _    _ _  _ _                    _  _ _  _
nxenesve (FTE) +/-
Iwplied pupil-   1993/4
teacher ratio
Raporti i       1994/5
nenpazwr
nxenles rnesues  ,+1
HI.    Policy changes affectig teacher numbers, 1993/4 to L994/5
Ndryshiet ne politike qe ndikojone ne numrin e mesuesve, 1993/4 deni ne 1994/S
t   Emivalti i twt i mamt ne PeriUsi.



-                                                A5 -A        8
ml.    Accounting for Changes in Teacher Numbers
Spjegime per ndryshimn e numrift te mesuesve
Pre school  8 year           Secondary            Univers-    Total
Para          schools        schools              ities         Totali
shkolla       Shkollat 8    Shkollat e            Univer-
vjecare        mesme               sitetet
Acad   j Voc
Teacher Numbers (FTE), 1994
NwIn                                              I Mesuesve (FTEt, 19I  I           I
Change in teacher numnbers
attributable to
Ndryshiim i numrit te
mesuesve qe i atribohet ...
Changes in pupil numbers
Ndryshime ne numrin e nxenesve
Policy changes
Ndryshime ne poliuken arsumore3                                                      ,
Preserving the Curriculum
Ruajja e Programt te shkolles'4
System responsiveness
Si vepron sistenu5
Total change in teacher
numbers, 1994 to 1995
Total i ndOyshmve ne nwnn e                                      I                                 1
owsmesve, 1994 den ne 1995
Teacher Numbers (FTE), 1995                      11
INwnri i Mesuesve (Mdvaleni), 1995
Te mbani te njitn mpon nxenes-mesues
Vendine per te ndryshuar madhesiuc e ksave ne disa shkolla.
4    Per shem&AU, duhet to nbai te pakzen npj mneses per secilh zip lerdet ktyesom nc nje shbaUe 8-vjecae.
$    Per shembull. pescak   i intvalve mdis (a) p caktlm i vendit bosh dhe Wga e mesuesit te duhur peakmi i vendit te
report dhe lIajmruni ne kohe per hain e mweesit.



-66  -                                      AN      8
IV.    Notes on Table III
Spjegime per Tabelen III
10.    Monitoring Progress of Rehabilitation. The rehabilitation component of the Project can be divided into
two programs: (a) repair of classrooms in existing schools; and (b) substitution of schools beyond economic
repair.
11.    Each of these programs will have its own internal progress control requirements. However, for overall
Project monitoring, an annual review, combined with the November education sector monitoring review
described above, will be sufficient.
12.    The review would focus on a project table similar to that below.
Status in         Number of classrooms refurbished       Number of classrooms substituted
November of                (cumulative)                         (cumulative)
Target     Revised       Actual       Target      Revised      Actual
target                                target                l
1994
1995                326                                     40
1996                978                                    120
1997               1385                                    170
1998               1630                                    200
13.    Capacity Building MonitorinL. Monitoring of the Project's capacity building activities will be against
expected outcomes. For each activity target completion dates will be set and an ongoing comparison made of
actual completion date against target, as shown in the table below:



-  67-                                            ANNEX  8
Actwi:vi| Output                                      I  Target date      Revised         Date
target date    completed
Planning & Mgt.
Information
Computerizatton    Trained personnel & pilot systems
in 3 districts
Management         Cadre of MOE staff familiar uwith
training           education management practices un a
varietv of other countries
Qualitv Assurance
Knowledge Bast    Resource library of seminars etc.
Core specialists   Core staff trained
on assessment
Twinning           Links established and in place            ____
Textbook
Improvement
Quality and Cost-   Desk-top publishing equipment fully
Effectiveness     operational
Training in publishing and financial
management complete
Policy and         Action plans developed for
commercial        restructuring of textbook provision
environment
14.    Again, the progress of technical assistance against this schedule would be forrnally reviewed in
November of eachi year. All technical assistance and training inputs should be completed before the mid-term
review in November 1996.



-  68   -                                               AL NEX  9
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Number of staffweeks
TIMING                            STAFFING                                         of which
Field              HQ             Total
FY95        Task Managers                                                  6                   4            10
Architect/Implementation Specialist                            4                  2              6
General Education Specialist                                   2                  1             3
Subtotal                                                     12                  7            19
FY96        Task Manager                                                   5                   3             8
Architect/Implementation Specialist                            3                   1            4
General Education Specialist                                   2                   1             3
Subtotal                                                     10                  5            15
FY97        Task Manager (Architect/Task Manager should be                 4                   3              7
sufftcient at this stage)
Education Specialist                                           2                   1             3
Subtotal                                                     6                   4             10
FY98        Task Manager                                                    3                  2              5
Education Specialist                                           2                   1             3
Subtotal                                                     5                   3              8
FY99        Task Manager                                                   2                  2               4
The Task Manager for this project initially will be a staff nemaber of the Hungay Resident Mission. It is therefore expected that in the first year of the
project, frequent small supervision missions of shon duration wilt be undertken, i.e., at least one week every two months. Project supervision wtil also
involve the Human Resources Sewor Liason Officer (local staff of the Albania Residen Mission.
Awne.SPN



- 69 -                                 ANNEX 10
ALBAN1A
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Materials in Project File
1.    Albania Book Sector Study. Summarv Report, prepared by Tony Read, September 1992.
2.    Census of School Infrastructure and Rehabilitation Reuuirements, District Tables, prepared by
Ministry of Education with Consultant Alberto Zuniga-Wager, May 1993.
3.    Strategv Note:  Albanian Education System (informal sector work), prepared by Sue E.
Berryman, EMTPH, December 1993.
4.    Prototvpe Architectural Designs for Elementary and Eight-Year Schools, commissioned by
Ministry of Education, January 1994.
5.    Swiss Grant for Restructurina Secondarv Education (description of activities, costing and terms
of reference), January 1994.
6.     First Year Imlementation Plan: School Rehabilitation Component, Ministry of Education, April
1994.



Organizational Chats
Chart 1:  Structure of Education System
Chart 2:  Governance of Education System
Chart 3:  Money Flows in Education System
Chart 4:  Organization of M[inistry of Education
and Staff Numbers in Each Unit
Chart 5:  Organization of Pedagogic Institute



- 70 -
CHART 1: STRUCTURE OF ALBANIAN
EDUCATION SYSTEM
Grades 9-10/9-12         Secondary        Secondary
Ages 14-17               Academic         Vocational
Grades 5-8
Ages 10-13                     Senior Primary               Compulsory
Attendance
Grades 1-4                     Junior Primary
Ages 6-9
Ages 3-5                           Preschool
1 / Four-year, not two-year, secondary vocational program graduates are eligible
for universities and institutes.



CHART 2: GOVERNANCE OF ALBANIAN EDUCATION SYSTEM
(August 1993)
Parliament
* Passes annual
budget
Council of Ministers
,* Submits state budget
to' Parliament
Sets teacher wages
via overall civil
service package
* Decides on cost
recovery
(e.g. textbooks)
CENTER
Ministry,of Education ,
Ministry of Trade          ((Preschool-University)         'Ministry of Finance
and   ...n..                            r ...... .  .Cnstructs recurrent
Foreign           ~~~and investment educatio n     stmttt
:Economy:      budget~~~~~~~~~~tige, ncu
*' Opertin                .*:.Establishes structure of.      budet inluin
responsibilty. public education  ere,tiori recurrent
for university  * Estabflsher ~lengthi of   4      adcpital budge,
- dormitories               scho,l ,',ay,' and... ye,'  d   to C oui e
_______________  ~    :,and hours of Work            Miitr
for teachers          * ~~~Supervises Oistrict,
*EstabiLshes                     Council's flnancaial
credentiaesg offices
,-requirements for -new
:.teachers    :-      '
Specifies curricular
'' requirements and
Pedagogic'':'.''.  .         :--curricula (via
* Wr.ite texMitboksfiat. . :  , centrally written  .       .Universities and I
... speaifies cunicula  .     .....                    _- .textbooks)  .  Insttes
Teacher retaln,,.   '     ODefines standards
______________          cl~~~ass sizes::
* .Decides on District
Council'requests.to:::'-..
" .:openA 1/close scthools.' 
PREFECTURE           _          *,, OVersees Economic,";-'
(Functions to be              . Centers
specified)



-72 
DISTRICT
Pepartment of Education                                                                    ....... ...
* Teacher training
*:.* Quaity Jcntio  (school
..s  ctons)
EdUcaticn data collecton                      t                       .. r                      ,
fo E                                   .  ...... .... ..
~Abpointmeiint,  rooin,                                                   SUp  le    4r ear
transfer, liring -of
teachrs ~d heamastrs
/ocmen   cente    Office of Education
._                               *Approves  Economic Center
: itct Counci              .           .          proposed repairs and::  ;:
new construcoion
l  Advises Council to open
or dose schools
|' Finance Office                            * l  .   nAudits. expenditures at'
municipality/commune
levels
Allocates secondary/
ur - ersity dormitory
| scholarshlps        -     :.;:  
I XHelps Economic. Center
assure adequate plant.
equipment
- Advises municipalities/
communes on budget
estmates and purchasing
LOCAL
Urban Municipality Council                                             _F
spo dpe        edcaton                                                        .       .......p............ Rural C:omm
a x ofice handle s           -                                             Sa:    f -S
..... ...... .... ..                                                 ...  m uni
*Pay teachers, supplies,
...* DeciS iaocaton of -
- Schoola i ntan>.-ikinds. oix :'- - ..............
:....... ... ...o:: p  :::::::,Oypor st              0Siol            :                            ...-::....
. ...   ..... .....   .... ......................... ..... ..                           .. .. .   ... . . ...................   ....
......e.r......a. fif"  -  tachr___n__            *SttecigsceL
-pam nes cnmdto   :  -:* -No discefon.a;
teac.... hg hours ..;budge
11 Permission to build flBW schools is only required for schools costing more than 3 million lk
to construct.



- 73 -
CHART 3: BUDGETARY FLOWS IN ALBANIAN EDUCATION SYSTEM
(FY 1994)
Parliament
Council of Ministers
|Ministry of Finance|
& Foreign Econom           |   iiryoEdctn 
Pedagogic Institute    Textbook        Economic Center    Universities
lPl Houblishig    XInstitutes
/        ~~~Department of Education
District           ffice of
Coduncil         Finance 
Urban Municipality           .'ural Commune
CoCuncilc                -
Qffice ofjFinance
1                      Schools



CHART 4: TABLE OF ORGANIZATION FOR ALBANIAN MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
AND STAFF NUMBERS IN EACH UNIT
1k1 X 1S1 X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......   .....
[jI]      P~~resho &       Unvestis       Acdmi           Administratio       conoics      :Internatiornal
e  (aDept.             ()             p. 2          e.  n
Statistics  Financing |        r|  smlnl
Planning           i4:r: 1



- 75 -
CHART 5: TABLE OF ORGANIZATION OF PEDAGOGIC INSTITUTE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........    ....  .......
:Vice-Di)rector
':Publicadtionsa ibt9ifi"
............. ~~~~                         ~...
.....17 ...-  .             .  ..-    .     .    -       . . :  -
. ..Cu  ica Dweveopment,te.,p,,a ...nts,,,
. :lRpdtof Mathematics,                                               .....  .TechnicallProfe$stioal/.
Natural and Biological Sciences                                               Vo Ycational Depamet
* .    ..... .....-.. ..(                                                             ff   3
:: : i #st ;~~~~~.    .... ...      .  ..   ..                   .. . . ..
:~~~~~~~~~~.                  .   :-.     .....   ;..-- :     .:                          .   -..-   ... - .......:5)  ;
l     o  ...                                            ......
anti HW.--t  -                                                    pa   Pedgog
.......... tatH   2) ......... .i_                                                    _ _-
... .... ; .........                                                   6   A.....



MMW 25410
FED. REP  OF  YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   Vof  \\
-4r                                                     *                                 ; ;    
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, cX 4
ALBANIA                    ~Shingjin    i,Koi,          rbIS            X
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND                                                 ;                    PeN 
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT                                                                         .7:L   4t tt 
"-zto     -ko     S      . h         WFYR
SCHOOL ASCHOOLREPLAIAMENT PROAN 
DISTRICTS                                                                                     MACEDONIA
E   DISTRICT EDUCATION ECONOMIC
CENTERS AND CMES                                    TIRA
$410k Vra JI4   J\1-,?&-i
MINORTOWNS                                      Va*B
|    NAMONAL CAPITAL                                  R                             rAN A-, !
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                  t                         Lib'  5 
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                     Krrobt
=    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   5;bosfm
i 41-              RIVERikS
ELEVAIONS IN METERS:                                                      m
1200v                                                  {9-u,,-            -                               t  
=200                                                                                              m  e   \qX
ITALY
40'          The boundaries, colors, 4
denominaions and any
offer infion shown               0   8   16  24                                                     G  R E E C  E
on this n7p do  nor
impiy, on the port of                ILOMETR                   SC
he World Bank Group,
ny judgnment on the legal
tatus of O ny teryit.R
or any endQoement
or acceptance of such
boundarne.                                                                                                            1



