Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20926-AL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26330)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 28, 2000
South East Europe Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective on September 27, 2000)
Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (LEK)
LEK I = US$ 0.0068
US$ 1 = LEK 145.85
FISCAL YEAR
January I --  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEDP         Albania Education Development Project
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEAE         Center for Evaluation, Assessment, and Examinations
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
EMIS         Education Management Information System
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
FY           Fiscal Year of the World Bank
IDA          International Development Association
MOES         Ministry of Education and Science
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOP          Ministry of Privatization
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PHRD         Population and Human Resources Development
STPH         State Textbook Publishing House
TDE          Textbook Distribution Enterprise
UNICEF       United Nations Children's and Education Fund
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christian J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:   James A. Socknat, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sue E. Berryman, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CREDIT 26330-ALL
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     17
10. Additional Information                                                              17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   26
Annex 8 Borrower Contribution to ICR                                                    27
MAP 28467R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008269                                       Project Name: SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA
Team Leader: Sue Ellen Berryman                           TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: September 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-26330
Country'Department: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/13/93                                 Effective: 10/06/94           10/06/94
Appraisal:  02/08/94                                  MTR: 10/15/96              06/22/98
Approval:  06/23/94                                 Closing: 03/31/99            03/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                     Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:      James A. Socknat                           Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Sue Ellen Berryman                        Terrice Bassler
ICR Primary Atuthor:   Anna Kokotov-Litnan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to help the Government sustain delivery of basic education services
during Albania's difficult economic transition and build institutional capacity for planning, management
and quality assurance of education in an increasingly decentralized system. Its specific objectives were
defined as follows:



(a) accelerate rehabilitation of damaged and dilapidated school facilities in Albania's 37 districts; and
(b) build capacity of the key sector institutions to stimulate efficient use of fiscal resources and assure
quality of learning outcomes.
The present assessment of the objectives is based on: (1) their relevance to sector priorities; (2) consistency
with Bank's priorities and areas of special interest to the Bank; (3) Borrower's understanding of and
commitment to the objectives; and (4) the ease of implementation.
Both objectives were consistent with the priorities of the Albania education sector in the early nineties and
remain relevant today. The rehabilitation objective was necessitated by the severe deterioration of the
education infrastructure to the point where it impeded learning. By the early 1 990s, 60 percent of the basic
and secondary school system's total classrooms needed either repair or compete replacement, with the total
rehabilitation bill exceeding $80 million, as estimated by the Ministry of Education (Ministry). The project
could meet only a part of the overall needs in Albania's school infrastructure rehabilitation. The Bank's
sector study of the Albania education sector (May 2000) showed that these needs still persist. There were
further episodes of school vandalism in 1997. More importantly, Government has been financing education
inadequately. The result has been poorly funded preventive maintenance of schools, where what start as
minor repairs balloon into major repairs.
The Capacity Building Objective was also important for Albanian education in the early 1 990s. At that
time, the country's move to a market economy and a more decentralized democratic society created
unprecedented challenges for the education sector. However, key education sector institutions lacked the
capacity to deal with these challenges. Decades of isolation meant that frames of reference for managing
the sector were frozen in time and badly out of date. Capacity building remains a long-term objective for
Albania's education sector. The project was only a starting point for a process of profound changes in
institutional culture and organizational behavior of the key players in the sector.
Both objectives were consistent with the core elements of the 1993 IDA Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Albania (rescuing basic public services and capacity-building of indispensable govemment
agencies); and with the 1998 IDA CAS (governance and institutions building, promotion of human
development, and poverty alleviation). The objectives were also consistent with one of the areas of special
interest to the Bank: poverty alleviation. Although it did not explicitly target poverty, the project was
intended to benefit poor Albanian children. The rehabilitation objective envisaged a large school
rehabilitation program to protect access to basic education particularly, in poor rural and remote parts of
the country.
The project objectives enjoyed different levels of support by the Borrower. The rehabilitation objective was
clear to the Borrower and had its full support and commitment. However, the capacity building objective
was not well understood, accepted, or intemalized by the Government. There were several reasons for this.
First, in 1993-1994, the Ministry was interested primarily in donor support that could alleviate shortfalls in
the sector's physical inputs, such as deteriorated school facilities, overcrowded urban schools, and textbook
shortages. Second, even during negotiations, the Albanian Govemment signaled a reluctance to borrow for
the intemational technical assistance needed to reach the capacity building objective by reducing the
amount of credit allocated for technical assistance. This reluctance only deepened as the project began to
implement. Finally, many concepts envisioned by the objective, such as quality assurance and learning
assessments, accountability, or education efficiency, were still alien concepts to the Albanian counterparts
and therefore did not have their commitment.
-2-



Both objectives were overly ambitious for the early 1990s. They implied a high level of coordination and
supervision efforts. For example, the rehabilitation objective envisaged an intensive and geographically
dispersed rehabilitation program, but the poor state of the roads, transportation, and communication in
Albania made it difficult to ensure proper supervision of the works. The capacity building objective
envisaged technical assistance and multiple training activities in more than one area of education reform
(i.e., management and planning information, quality assurance, and improving the competitiveness of
textbook provision) when such organizational behavior patterns (e.g., the use of consulting services or staff
development) were still a novelty to the sector. Moreover, the Government had to internalize many new
concepts in education and management for which it was not ready.
3.2 Revised Ohiective:
The development objectives were broadly formulated, and therefore, there was no need to formally revise
them. During the mid-term review, in June 1998, some modifications were introduced into the capacity
building objective to better relate it to progress in project implementation and changing conditions in the
country. The objective was split into three more specific objectives corresponding to each project
sub-component: a) create a school mapping database that can be used to rationalize the sector's
infrastructure; b) train professional staff and equip the Center for Evaluation, Assessment, and
Examinations (CEAE), thereby improving the existing evaluation, assessment and examination system; c)
convert the State Textbook Publishing House (STPH) and Textbook Distribution Enterprise (TDE) into
private sector enterprises.
3.3 Original C(omponents:
The Project had two components. The largest component, School Rehabilitation, had expected financing in
the amount of US$10.3 million. This component included: (i) a school rehabilitation program providing for
repairs and basic furniture in 1,630 classrooms in 237 schools in all districts; and (ii) a school replacement
program providing for replacement of 200 classrooms in 38 schools in the northern districts of Kukes,
Puke, and Shkoder, and a purchase of furniture and equipment for these schools. The project was expected
to finance civil works, school furniture, and service fees for a local specialist and administrative support to
the district Economic Centers that were responsible for the implementation of the component at the district
level.
The second component, Key Sector Capacities (US$1.0 million), included four sub-components: (i)
Planning and Management Information (US$0.2 million); (ii) Quality Assurance in Basic Education
(Pedagogic Institute) (US$0.2 million); (iii) Textbook Improvement (US$0.1 million), and (iv) Project
Coordination Unit (US$0.4 million).
*   Planning and Management Information. This sub-component was designed to build on activities
started during project preparation with the technical assistance financed by a PHRD Grant provided by
the Government of Japan. These activities included a study to review and streamline the powers and
duties of the various actors in the management of education and a computerized rural planning model
for the three districts to assist in rationalizing education provision in rural areas. In addition, the project
allocated credit funds to finance computerization of an education planning and management
information system in the Ministry and in three pilot districts and management training for the
Ministry's staff and education administrators at the district level. The project funds would finance
equipment and materials for district offices and the Ministry, international and local technical
assistance, and external training. The Economics Department of the Ministry was responsible for this
sub-component.
-3-



*   Quality Assurance in Basic Education. This sub-component was designed to build on an activity that
had also started during the project preparation under the PHRD Grant: the development of a strategic
plan for the Pedagogic Institute to review its functions and reorganize its structure. The project funds
were to be used to acquaint staff of the Pedagogic Institute and others with recent developments in
quality assurance in education, cognitive and adolescent development, and teaching and learning
processes. Training was to be provided locally by external specialists ("Tirana Lectures Series"). The
sub-component included training a core group of learning assessment specialists for the CEAE and
setting up an initial "twinning" or partnership linkage between the Pedagogic Institute and a center with
similar functions in another country. The Pedagogic Institute was responsible for this sub-component.
* Textbook Improvement. This sub-component was designed to assist the Ministry with the
development of textbook provision policy through external study visits, technical assistance to key
staff, as well as training in publishing and financial management for a new commercial environment. It
would provide a follow-up support to a roundtable on textbook policy and action planning that was
planned to be carried out by the Ministry with the support of UK Know-How Fund. In addition,
modest equipment was to be purchased for the STPH to enable it to effectively use its newly acquired
computers for book design and page layout. The Ministry was responsible for this sub-component.
*   Project Coordination Unit. The project envisaged the establishment of a PCU comprised of a project
coordinator, accountant, multi-lingual secretary, and a lead engineer/architect. It was also planned that
the PCU would contract staff to assist as necessary with procurement, supervision of works,
organization of external training, and other services as required. The Project allocated funds for: (i)
purchasing computers, office furniture, equipment, and supplies, as well as two vehicles for project
supervision for the PCU; (ii) basic office equipment for the district Economic Centers; (iii) services of
an independent auditor to conduct the annual audits of project-related expenditure; and (iv) technical
assistance to assist PCU and other Ministry's staff involved in the project on procurement and
disbursement, such as external training to observe implementation management practices in
IDA/Bank-supported projects in other countries.
The Ministry of Education, designated as implementing agency, had the overall responsibility for the
implementation of the project.
Project design was clearly related to the development objectives. Each objective was to be realized through
a relevant component. Due to the urgency of school rehabilitation needs, the School Rehabilitation
Component was made the major component. The priority was given to eight-year schools. This priority was
consistent with one of the elements of the Bank's strategy in education, i.e., ensuring that everyone
completes a basic education of adequate quality. The design of the Key Sector Capacities Component
included the most critical areas of the education system, such as management and planning, quality
assurance, and textbook provision. The sector study on Albania's education conducted in 2000 reaffirmed
these priorities for the sector.
However, the design of the project did not take into consideration risk factors that later compromised the
quality of civil works under the School Rehabilitation Component and threatened the implementation of the
Key Sector Capacities Component. The risks for the School Rehabilitation Component included: lack of
construction guidelines and school furniture standards; variations in the capacity and incentives of district
Economic Centers to design technical specifications, properly evaluate bids, and provide adequate
supervision of civil works; and an under-developed market of construction firms that made it easier for
unqualified firms to secure contracts by offering low prices. The risks for the Key Sector Capacities
Component included: insufficient capacity on the part of the Ministry to absorb the envisaged amount of
- 4 -



technical assistance; lack of experience in coordinating technical assistance and training contracts under the
Bank's guidelines; a volatile political environment that led to high tumover of the technical staff in the
sector, and therefore losses of investments in training; and low incentives to retain trained staff in the public
sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project components were not formally revised. However, at the time of the mid-term review (July
1998), some activities were modified to target more effectively the objectives of the project. Under the
School Rehabilitation Component, the number of schools to be rehabilitated and replaced was adjusted to
reflect increased prices and changing needs for school infrastructure. Due to the delays in the
implementation of the Key Sector Capacities Component, some of the originally planned activities had to
be dropped. Other activities were expanded. Specifically, under the planning and management
sub-component, a governance review study and external fellowships in management training were dropped
as part of the project while the school-mapping initiative was pursued. Under the quality assurance
sub-component, the Tirana Lectures Series, and "Twinning" Exercise had not been carried out by the time
of the mid-term review and, therefore, were dropped. The sub-component was re-focused to aggressively
pursue and expand the capacity building activities for the CEAE. Previously planned training was
complemented with other activities that were deemed necessary to set up a functioning Center, such as
technical assistance, rehabilitation of the premises, and equipment. Under the textbook improvement
sub-component, project resources were focused on launching a privatization initiative through intemational
technical assistance. The initiative, under the project, would provide for development of a textbook policy
and conversion of the STPH and TDE into joint-stock companies as a first step to full privatization. Such
conversion could not and was not planned as a project output under the original Key Sectors Capacities
Component. However, by mid-1998, Albania's move to a market economy as well as a resumed interest of
the Ministry in improving how it procured textbooks created a good window of opportunity for the project
to assist with gradual privatization of the textbook sector.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
Since the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) had not yet been established, a formal assessment of quality at
entry by the QAG could not have been conducted. In the ICR, the quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The
project objectives were in line with the CAS, sector needs, Govenmment's priorities, and the relevant Bank
safeguard policies. The project design generally corresponded to its objectives. The assumptions about
Government's demand for the project outputs were realistic: (i) enrollment in basic education remains
relatively high; (ii) the Ministry is keen on the development of educational management information
systems to improve its management and planning functions; (iii) the Government is planning to participate
in international comparative tests in order to have relevant information on the quality of Albanian
education; (iv) the Govenmment is also introducing standardized assessments, first in higher education, and
then in basic education; and (v) the Government is moving ahead with privatization of the textbook
industry.
At the same time, the overall design of the project suffered from several shortcomings stemming from the
underestimation of project risks. First, project risks were identified only for the Rehabilitation Component.
Second, even for this component, certain risks were overlooked. (see para. 3.3). As a result, the project's
design did not include mechanisms that could have addressed those risks. Finally, the assumptions about
mitigating factors, such as the collaboration of Albania's major external partners in education - IDA the
European Union, Soros Foundation, and UNICEF - were not fully realized during the project
implementation period. By the end of the project, the relations among the donors had become more
constructive.
-5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievem7ent of objective:
The implementation of the project can be divided into two periods. The first period occurred before the
mid-term review from 1994 to mid-1998. During this period, the School Rehabilitation Component was
implementing, though unevenly. However, there was little or no progress under the Key Sector Capacity
Component due to the Ministry's unwillingness to use the Credit for technical assistance and training. The
second period occurred from mid-1998 to March 2000 and included the mid-term review (June 1998). The
implementation of the School Rehabilitation component was completed by the end of 1998, and the
Ministry focused its efforts on implementing activities under the Key Sector Capacities Component.
Overall, the project's outcome is rated satisfactory. The project achieved its objective for the major
component: - to rehabilitate and replace a large number of schools. The objective for the Key Sector
Capacity Component can also be considered as having been essentially implemented. The Project,
primarily during its last two years, did develop an initial capacity in each of the three areas of the education
reform. This provided a good basis for the capacity building activities now underway in the Education
Reform Project, which was effective in July 2000.
4.2 Outputts by conmponents:
The School Rehabilitation Component funded investments - largely civil works and basic school
furniture - for rehabilitation of 157 schools in 14 districts (versus targeted 237 schools in 37 districts) and
replacement of 26 schools in three northern districts of Kukes, Puke, and Shkoder (versus targeted 38
schools in the same districts). Fewer schools than originally planned were rehabilitated and replaced due to
the following reasons: (i) increases in prices after price liberalization that occurred after the appraisal cost
estimates; and (ii) movements of populations from rural to urban areas that made it necessary to build more
urban schools that were generally larger and more expensive. Fewer districts participated in the project
than had been estimated during the appraisal because the demand for schools followed the mass migration
from numerous rural areas to many fewer urban areas.
TIhe component achieved an overall positive result: 60,000 schoolchildren benefited from the school
rehabilitation and replacement program, including children in the poorest and most remote areas. However,
the quality of replaced and rehabilitated schools was uneven: based on unofficial rough estimates, the
construction quality is high in 15% of schools; average in 65%; and low in the remaining 20%. There are a
number of reasons for the variance: (i) construction guidelines and standards were never established; (ii) the
District Economic Centers varied in their capacities and incentives to prepare proper technical
specifications for competitive bidding, to evaluate bids adequately, and to ensure proper supervision; (iii)
the construction skills and quality of materials available in remote areas were low; (iv) the construction
market was nascent; (v) regulations and enforcement were insufficient, creating more opportunities for
contract abuse; (vi) the PCU had insufficient capacity to ensure proper supervision of civil works
procurement; (vii) Government was reluctant to use technical assistance or hire a private firm to supeivise
contracts; and (viii) the scheduled rehabilitation was of an emergency nature, causing Government to
"patch" quickly rather than to worry about construction quality.
Given the lack of progress in the implementation of the Key Sector Capacities Component during the
early years of the project, the component was modified at the time of the mid-term review (June 1998).
Some activities had to be dropped (a governance study, Tirana Lectures, twinning exercise, etc.), and
others were modified to better fit new conditions (see para 3.4). By the end of the project, the component
-6 -



funded technical assistance and equipment for: (i) the development of a school-mapping database and
"Decision" software under the planning and management sub-Component; (ii) establishment of the CEAE
under the quality assurance sub-component; and (iii) conversion of the STPH and TDE into joint-stock
companies under the textbook improvement sub-component. The actual outputs of the component
correspond to the outputs planned during the mid-term review. However, compared to the original plan, the
component was implemented with a three year delay, and had fewer outputs.
With the benefit of hindsight, the delay in the implementation or cancellation of some activities may have
been a positive development. For example, investments in training activities, if implemented as originally
planned in 1995/1996, would have been lost during the political upheaval of later years and subsequent
changes in the sector's leadership and technical cadre. It would also have been too early to conduct a
govemance study in the mid-nineties. There was not enough knowledge or experience in the region and at
the Bank regarding the issues of decentralization and efficient allocation of govemance functions and
responsibilities among the different levels within a decentralized governance framework. By the end of the
decade, relevant experience was accumulating. Therefore, the governance study was included in the
Education Reform Project.
Overall, the activities accomplished under each sub-component can be considered successful. Under the
planning and management sub-component, a school-mapping database and "Decision" software were
developed, installed, and demonstrated in the Ministry. The personnel of the Ministry's Investment
Department which is the prospective primary user of the database in the immediate term, received initial
training in using the database and the software for resource allocation decisions for school rehabilitation
and construction needs. Guidelines for the training manual were developed. The database and the software
represent important building blocks for a comprehensive education management information system
(EMIS) to be developed under the Education Reform Project. Therefore, the benefits of the school mapping
activity have to be evaluated at a later stage, under the framework of the performance monitoring of the
Education Reform Project. In the meantime, the database and the software were favorably evaluated by the
Ministry in a formal evaluation session, although minor technical glitches remain to be worked out. As part
of the school mapping exercise, a rural planning model was piloted on the basis of three regions and an
alternative resource scenario for rural school construction and rehabilitation was presented to the Ministry.
Remaining funds under the planing and management sub-component were used for ad hoc technical
assistance for the Ministry to develop and carry out a donor coordination strategy in response to the flood
of donor support to Albania at the time of the Kosovo crisis and influx of refugees to Albania.
Under the quality assurance sub-component, an action plan for the establishment of a functional Center for
Assessment was developed. The staff of the CEAE was expanded from 3 persons to 5. Each of the staff
received training in learning assessment concepts and methods. The Center's premises were rehabilitated,
and the necessary equipment was purchased and installed. At the Ministry's order, the Center completed its
first large assessment task: the development of an item bank for the standardized portion of the higher
education entrance examinations of 2000. The Education Reform Project continues to focus on
strengthening the Center to develop feedback on the teaching and leaming process in Albania.
Launching a privatization initiative became the focus of the textbook improvement sub-component (see also
para. 3.4). By the end of the project, the initiative achieved significant results. With the technical assistance
of an international textbook expert, the Ministry developed a privatization strategy which takes into
consideration issues of uninterrupted textbook provision. Based on the strategy, the STPH and TDE were
converted into joint-stock companies as the first step of privatization. The staff of these two firms received
training in a business plan development, and were introduced to commercial publishing and distribution
practices in other countries through external studies. Under the Education Reform Project, the privatization
- 7 -



process will continue.
The implementation of the project management sub-component followed the same pattern as
implementation of the other sub-components: slow and insufficient development of capacity building of the
PCU during 1994-1998 and significant improvement during the final two years of the project due to
changes in the Ministry and strengthened Bank supervision of the project. Until 1998, the PCU was part of
the Development and Coordination Department of the Ministry, and consisted only of the Director. The
procurement and financial functions, as well as engineering supervision under the project, were perforned
by the staff of the Development and Coordination Department, along with their routine functions. Such an
arrangement deviated significantly from the legal agreements that specified a PCU staffed full time by four
people and a driver. Given the unwillingness of the Minister of Education during that period to use IDA
funds for technical assistance or training, the procurement specialist and budget staff did not receive
systematic training in Bank standards and processes for project management, procurement, and
disbursement. At the time of the mid-term review, there was only a skeletal PCU with virtually no
experience or capacity in managing technical assistance contracts for the Key Sector Capacities
Component. The PCU could not even oversee the School Rehabilitation Component with the degree of
managerial and supervisory rigor that had been agreed and expected. In late 1998, the PCU was finally
reconfigured to comply with the project legal agreements. By the end of the project, the PCU had become a
functional unit staffed with a director, a procurement officer, and a disbursement officer, and each of them
received training in IDA procurement and disbursement guidelines. The PCU is now suitably equipped and
capable of managing project activities under the Education Reforn Project. The annual project audits have
shown overall compliance of the PCU's financial management procedures with acceptable international
standards.
4.3 Net Present lValue/lEconomic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project activities is modest. The School Rehabilitation
Component failed to develop any capacity at the district level to manage procurement and supervision of
civil works. Project design did not provide sufficient technical assistance to district Economic Centers, and
the PCU was unable at that time to mentor the centers in better procurement practices due to its own
limited procurement capacity. Under the Key Sector Capacities Component, the Ministry did not use the
project's activities to help Ministerial departments build their capacities to manage and improve the
functions for which they were responsible.
At the same time, some of the project activities provided a good example of effective management. For
example, the school-mapping exercise was organized by an international consultant as an interactive
process involving various staff at the Ministry and district level and other donors, such as the Albania
Education Development Project (AEDP). It also demonstrated the benefits of using local capacity when
possible. Albanian high school students participated in the development of the school database, which was
cost-effective for the project and beneficial for the students. Another positive development has been the
Ministry's higher awareness and understanding of the necessity to improve effectiveness and efficiency in
the use of human and financial resources. For example, the Government of Albania has embarked on a civil
service reform, and the Ministry of Education through its own initiative has become a pilot ministry for this
reforn.
-8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During project implementation, three major episodes of political disturbances affected the implementation
of the project and its outcomes. From March to December 1997, the collapse of a pyramid scheme led to
civil unrest, vandalism against government buildings, including schools, and widespread anarchy. During
that time, all project activities were put on hold. The Government officially requested and received from the
Bank a year's extension of the project implementation period to compensate for the time lost during the
1997 disturbances. In September- October 1998, the ousted President, Sali Berisha, attempted a coup. The
accompanying violence forced delays in the implementation of the Key Sector Capacities Component
because technical assistance had to be postponed until the situation stabilized. Finally, in 1999, the Kosovo
crisis imposed further delays on project implementation from March to September, 1999. The influx of
refugees to Albania, especially Tirana, again created security problems and an overload on the Ministry as
a result of the need to respond to the schooling needs of refugee children.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to government control:
The implementation of the School Rehabilitation component was affected by insufficient capacity at the
district level to ensure quality of civil works. Lax Governmental procedures for licensing civil engineers
and construction companies produced an unreliable and poorly qualified pool of bidders and supervisors at
the district level. Many licensed engineers and technicians were not able to prepare adequate technical
specifications for civil works contracts. Licensed private construction firms turned out to have no
qualifications to perform adequately under their contracts. Vague liability provisions for non-performance
under procurement contracts precluded enforcement of certain contractual obligations.
The Key Sector Capacities Component suffered from cross-sectoral unwillingness of the Government to
use IDA funds for technical assistance. This reluctance emerged in 1994. However, by 1998, the
Government's receptiveness to technical assistance had changed, and the Ministry's new leadership was
eager to move forward with education reforms. These two factors had an extremely positive effect on
implementation of the component.
Another factor was a high turnover of the technical cadre across the sectors, and in the education sector in
particular. The entrenched system of political patronage produced wholesale staff turnover with every shift
in political power. This was exacerbated by low incentives for attracting and retaining qualified staff in the
public sector. The new civil service reform is designed to reduce this problem by creating technical cadres
that are selected on merit, better paid, and politically insulated. The Ministry's request to become an early
pilot in this reform stemmed from the leadership's desire to stop the debilitating turnover of technical staff.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There are three major factors of this type that affected project implementation: (i) the Ministry's failure to
establish an adequate PCU; (ii) the Ministry's unwillingness to use technical assistance and training; and
(iii) the lack of construction guidelines and furniture standards for schools.
School Rehabilitation Component. These three factors affected the implementation of this component,
leading to uneven quality of the school rehabilitation and replacement programs. First, the Ministry's failure
to establish a separate PCU during the first half of the project hampered the supervision of civil works in
many ways. For example, the PCU staff had to divide their time between supervising civil works under the
project and the Ministry's own construction program; the staff could not make field trips as often as it
required since the two vehicles purchased for the project were appropriated by the Ministry for its own
-9-



needs; and the PCU configuration did not allow a fast resolution of any implementation problem since any
decision that could have been made at the PCU level had to be approved according to the cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures at the department level. Second, the lack of technical assistance and training for
the PCU during the first half of the project resulted in its insufficient procurement and supervision
capacity to ensure quality of civil works. Although supervision missions tried to provide on-site
procurement training, these efforts could not replace the more rigorous training needed by the PCU. Proper
training did not start until 1998. The Ministry did not follow the recommendations of the supervision
missions to hire an independent supervisor for the school rehabilitation program. The third factor, the lack
of construction guidelines, contributed to the wide variation in the accuracy of technical specifications and
bills of quantity and, ultimately, to variations in construction quality. In the absence of any school
furniture standards, the quality of purchased furniture also varied widely. In some cases, the furniture for
students suffered from poor workmanship, ergonomically unacceptable designs, and unsafe components.
The lack of standards for materials, basic designs, or construction component did not allow for the
economies of scale that standardization can yield.
Key Sector Capacities Component. Implementation of this component was affected primarily by the
Ministry's unwillingness to use technical assistance and training from 1994 to mid-1998. As a result, only
15 percent of the Credit allocated for the component was disbursed by June, 1998, reflecting virtually no
progress in its implementation during that time. Consequently, some of the activities envisaged under the
component had to be dropped, and education reforms were delayed. The Bank's supervision team had to
work under enormous pressure during the two final years of the project in order to assist the Borrower to
achieve the capacity-building objective of the project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
During project appraisal, the total estimated project cost was US$11.3 million, with an IDA Credit of
US$9.6 million equivalent, and a Government contribution of US$1.7 million. The IDA Credit was for
SDR 6.9 million. At closing SDR 277, 869.62 remained undisbursed and these funds were canceled
effective the date of the last transaction (26-May-2000). The project largely followed the financing plan.
However, there were two deviations from the estimated costs by category. First, the estimated costs for
civil works could not cover the number of schools targeted by the project objective. At the mid-term review,
the targeted number of schools to be replaced or rehabilitated was adjusted. There were four main reasons
for the shortfall: a) the costs for rehabilitation were originally underestimated; (b) schools that were not
repaired in the first year of the project continued to deteriorate, making the bill more expensive when they
were finally repaired; c) construction costs increased, in some cases at rates higher than average inflation;
and d) mass migration from rural to urban areas meant that more urban schools had to be rehabilitated,
resulting in a reduced number of rehabilitated schools at increased costs per school. Second, at the
Government's request, the remaining funds in the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of
US$240,000 were reallocated to "Consultant Services" category. The undisbursed amount of the PPF had
been allocated for training purposes, but the envisaged training did not take place.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainiability rating:
The project is rated as "likely sustainable." The sustainability of the School Rehabilitation component
depends upon the Government's ability to allocate necessary funds and effectively organize a school
maintenance program. This issue was discussed at the time of the preparation of the School Rehabilitation
Project. One of the project conditions stipulated selection of schools for rehabilitation or replacement under
the project to be based, inter alia, on evidence of regular maintenance. Although some schools selected for
the project proved their ability to properly maintain their facilities, the selection criterion was not
- 10-



stringently enforced due to the overwhelming rehabilitation needs and scarce resources at the district level
to comply with such a criterion. Another condition under the project stipulated maintaining recurrent
expenditures for eight-year education, expressed as a percentage of overall recurrent expenditures in the
education budget, at least at the 1994 level equivalent. In addition, the Bank had to review annually with
the Government the arrangements for financing preventive maintenance in the education system. Again, this
condition was not enforced due to the substantial decline in real terms in the recurrent education budget
over the past decade.
However, the Government is well aware of the maintenance problem and its implications, as well as costs,
for any current or future investment in school infrastructure. With the assistance of the Education Reform
Project, the MOES will be encouraging communities to participate in school rehabilitation and maintenance
efforts. Although the Education Reform Project could not address the fiscal aspects of the preventive
maintenance problem, the public expenditure review that is now being conducted jointly by Albania's
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the World Bank will provide Government with fiscal strategies for
redressing the shortfall in funds for school maintenance. The MOF is also gathering international
experience on financing school maintenance and drafting alternative proposals for the Parliament's review
and approval.
All the outputs of the Key Sector Capacities Component will be used as the basis for further institutional
reforns under the Education Reform Project. Therefore, the sustainability of the component is directly
linked with results and sustainability of the Education Reform Project. The Government expressed its
commitment to the objectives of the Education Reform Project and met the conditions for its effectiveness
in a timely and satisfactory manner.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
School Rehabilitation Component. The project investment in rehabilitation and replacement of school
facilities can be protected only through their regular maintenance. However, it is not clear at this point how
the Government will be able to provide it. A completion of the public expenditure review may serve as a
first step towards the development of transition arrangements for the continuous operation of the investment
(see para. 6.1).
Key Sector Capacities Component. Since all the outputs of the capacity building component are building
blocks for different activities under the Education Reform Project, these activities can be considered
transition arrangements to regular operations: (i) The school-mapping database will become part of a
comprehensive education management information system to be developed in the MOES and two pilot
districts. The database itself will be used for selecting schools for rehabilitation to assure equitable
distribution of credit funds. (ii) The established CEAE will continue to develop its capacity. Additional
training programs and study visits envisaged by the Education Reform Project will allow the CEAE to
expand its main responsibilities in learning assessment. (iii) The newly converted joint-stock companies, the
STPH and TDE, will receive technical assistance to develop them into fully functioning commercial
companies capable of efficient provision of quality textbooks for Albanian students.
During the ICR mission, it was agreed between the Bank and the MOES that the performance monitoring
indicators for the operation of the School Rehabilitation Component and the Key Sector Capacities
Component would be the Government's attention to the issue of preventive maintenance, and the relevant
performance indicators under the Education Reform Project, respectively:
- 11 -



School Rehabilitation Component: Under the public expenditure review framework, the Government
designs fiscal strategies for redressing the shortfall in funds for school maintenance.
Key Sector Capacities:
Planning and Management: MOES Directorate of Investment allocates IDA rehabilitation funds
equitably among districts, relative to school mapping database.
Qualitv Assurance: Learning Assessment of the 4th grade internationally certified as professional;
new 8th grade examination conducted and graded; and new "matura" examination pretested.
Textbook Improvement: MOES and Ministry of Privatization (MOP) bring STPH and TDE to
point of sale according to timelines specified in detailed plan of action.
An appropriate monitoring and evaluation system to monitor these performance indicators is a part of an
overall monitoring system designed for the Education Reform Project. The mid-term review for the
Education Reform Project is a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of the School Rehabilitation and
Capacity Building Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. / Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation is rated as Satisfactory. The project objectives responded to
the Government's immediate priority in the education sector, i.e., massive rehabilitation of a dilapidated
school infrastructure, as well as to the longer-term goals of education reform. Project components fit well
with project objectives. However, some major risks for the School Rehabilitation component were not
identified (e.g., lack of construction guidelines), and consequently, were not reflected in project design. The
Bank also overestimated the capacity of the Ministry of Education in the mid-90s to absorb the envisaged
amount of technical assistance under the Key Sector Capacities component. The SAR did not provide a
formal list of performance indicators, since this was not required at the time of project appraisal.
7.2 Supe-vision:
Overall, Bank performance in project supervision is rated as Satisfactory, although it was uneven during
the project. Several factors affected the Bank's project supervision efforts. First, the Bank's supervision was
carried out during particularly difficult times for Albania (see para 5. 1). Second, the Bank began the
project supervision with new people on both Bank and Government teams who had not been involved in the
preparation of the project. Third, the Ministry in 1994 was not committed to the use of technical assistance
for capacity building activities. Fourth, in 1994, the Bank did not have enough supervision experience in
ECA's education sector, since this was only the second education project in ECA (excluding Turkey). In its
turn, the Ministry lacked any experience in working with the Bank. Finally, at the beginning of the project,
communication with the Ministry was hampered by energy problems in the country, and the Ministry's poor
communication systems. To sum up, the reality in Albania was not conducive to significant
accomplishments.
At the same time, there was a narrow window for learning opportunities and for gaining experience by all
project players. To have used this window of opportunity, Bank supervision would have had to be
pro-active, patient and persistent. That was not the case until 1998. Although early in the project, the
Bank's supervision missions identified problems hindering the implementation of the project and suggested
appropriate remedies, the Bank failed to follow up sufficiently on their implementation. In addition, in
1996, the Bank decided to move supervision to the Bank's local office, but local staff at that time did not
have enough experience in project management. The Bank did not provide necessary training to the local
- 12-



staff, and this factor even further weakened the supervision efforts. A mid-term review of the project
scheduled for 1996 was not conducted.
In mid- 1998, the Bank renewed and strengthened its supervision efforts. Responsibility for supervision was
shifted back to headquarters. A comprehensive mid-term review was conducted in June 1998. Although the
School Rehabilitation Component had mostly been completed by that time, the mid-term review provided
useful recommendations that were later reflected in the design of the Education Reform Project. The Bank
also clearly indicated to the Govermment that the Bank's decision on lending for a follow-on project in the
education sector would be based on the Government's commitment and record on the implementation of the
Key Sector Capacities component during the time remaining in the project. The supervision team, in
collaboration with the Ministry, selected the most feasible activities for implementation during the
remaining project time, and provided all necessary support for their accomplishment. By the end of the
project, the Bank had developed constructive relations with the Ministry that culminated in the preparation
of the Education Reform Project. The design of this second project was based on the accomplishments and
lessons learned from the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project.
During the last two years of the project, the Bank maintained relations with all the major donors working in
Albania's education sector. Although the participation of the donors in the project activities was rather
limited, the dialogue led to cross-fertilization of ideas. For example, the Bank will be using the AEDP's
experience in involving communities in school rehabilitation and maintenance in the Education Reform
Project. In its turn, the AEDP has strengthened its focus on the issues of governance and management.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
To sum up the Bank's performance during the project, the Bank initially underestimated project risks,
entertained unrealistic expectations about project outputs, and showed insufficient aggressiveness in using
the window of learning opportunities. At the same time, the Bank demonstrated an excellent performance in
client responsiveness and sector analysis, as well as proving during the final phase of the project its
capacity to re-evaluate and strengthen its efforts to follow the project through, despite political and other
factors that interfered with project implementation. Therefore, the overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During project preparation, the Government was keenly interested in the project, mostly in the School
Rehabilitation Component. A key official at the Ministry of Education was appointed to participate in and
oversee the project preparation. There was good collaboration between the Bank and the Ministry teams
during the preparation of the School Rehabilitation Component. At the same time, the Ministry had less
interest in capacity-building activities. Its reluctance to use even grant money for technical assistance
precluded completion of most of the capacity building activities that had started during project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The major factor that affected project implementation was the Government's unwillingness to use IDA
Credit funds for technical assistance that emerged across all the sectors of Government in 1994.
In addition, the Government has failed to date to ensure allocation of sufficient funds for preventive
maintenance of the school infrastructure and to design optimal mechanisms for the use of such funds.
However, the Government is aware of this problem and is looking for possible solutions in the framework
of the public expenditure review.
- 13-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
From 1994 to mid-1998, the Ministry failed to provide effective management of the project. It did not
establish the PCU according to the legal project agreements; it was late with key staff appointments for
project implementation; it did not follow the recommendations of the supervision missions, nor did it use
allocated credit funds for proper training of the PCU procurement and disbursement staff. As a result, the
PCU had a limited capacity to ensure effective implementation of the project components. It did not provide
progress reports on a regular basis, and there were two separate occasions when the procurement rules
were violated and, the Bank after a careful deliberation, had to give waivers with the warning that any more
violations would result in cancellation of the project.
Until mid-1998, the Ministry did not want to use the Credit funds for technical assistance or training.
Therefore, there was no progress under the Key Sector Capacities Component until the Ministry
recommitted itself to the capacity building objective during the final two years of the project. The Ministry
also remarkably improved its project management. Based on the Bank's recommendations, the Ministry
changed the PCU configuration and strengthened its capacity through the Credit-funded training,
rehabilitation of facilities, and equipment.
7.7 Overall Borrower peijbrniance:
According to the PSRs of June, 1998 and December, 1999, the project was "unsatisfactory" at mid-term
review and "satisfactory" by project close.
8. Lessons Learned
The School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project was the first project in Albania's education sector
and the second project in the ECA education sector. As such, it provided an opportunity to derive
significant lessons that would benefit the Bank's work in the ECA education sector, particularly in Albania.
These lessons can be grouped as follows: (i) lessons for project preparation and supervision; and (ii)
lessons for improving Bank/Client relations.
L. Lessons for Project Preparation and Supervision
1. Project design should be grounded in the analytical work relevant to design decisions. Such analysis
should include, inter alia, an analysis of all sectors that may affect the implementation of the project. For
example, the preparation of the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project did not include a
substantial review of the construction market, capacities, or practices, which led to underestimation of
several major risk factors, and, consequently, omissions in the project design.
2. Project objectives and expectations for project outputs and outcomes should be realistic within the
project timeframe in countries that are inexperienced Bank clients, that are undergoing major political,
economic and social changes, and/or whose players work with conceptual frameworks that differ radically
from those associated with effective management of the sector. Political upheavals that occur during such
changes may cause delays in project implementation. In addition, an outdated conceptual framework for the
sector or little experience with Bank-financed projects may prolong the learning period and, consequently,
result in fewer outputs or outcomes than initially planned. For example, under the School Rehabilitation
and Capacity Building Project, the expectations for the outputs of the Key Sector Capacities Component
were set too high for Albania in the mid-90s. As a result, these expectations were not fully realized within
the project timeframe.
- 14 -



3. Project supervision in Albania and in any country with similar political, economic, and social
challenges requires labor-intensive supervision. The Bank has to be prepared for intensive supervision of
projects in Albania or in countries with similar conditions, using all available means, such as supervision
missions, video-conferences, regular communication with the PCU and other key players, sufficient
training and mentoring for the local Bank staff to strengthen local supervision capacity, etc.
4. The Bank should regularly review and assess possibilities for reaching the project objectives and
feasibility of the designed activities. Based on project progress, the Bank should be flexible in modifying
project components, if sufficiently justified, and should be firm in indicating to the Borrower that poor
performance or lack of commitrnent with regard to the project will endanger the Bank's willingness to invest
in a follow-up project.
5. Project preparation and supervision should be carned out with broad participation by the
Government and other stakeholders. Such participation will result in a stronger sense of project
ownership. It will also serve as a remedy against high turnover of the technical cadre in countries with a
volatile political environment and low incentives to work in the public sector.
6. The Bank should maintain an intensive dialogue with international donors. A continuous dialogue
with international donors, even if they are not a part of the current project, can lead to better coordination
within the sector and create opportunities for collaboration. At the same time, Bank operations cannot be
"held hostage" to donor decisions on co-financing or parallel financing. Donors differ from the Bank in
their agendas and time frames for taking action.
7. Quality of rehabilitation and construction works should be a focus of project design and
implementation. This lesson is very important for any civil works financing in ECA countries. Although
these countries have substantial experience in construction, inefficiency and poor quality assurance are
pervasive problems.
8. Strengthening procurement capacity is essential to ensure quality of civil works. Weak local capacity
in interpreting and applying the Bank's procurement guidelines and national procurement laws and
regulations results in overly rigid interpretations, weak procurement practices, and, consequently, poor
results. Strengthening of PCU procurement capacity can be achieved through adequate and timely training,
both before project effectiveness and periodically during the course of implementation, as well as close
supervision by the Bank. The Borrower can also be encouraged to fulfill Country Procurement Assessment
Report's (CPAR) recommendations, if available.
9. School rehabilitation and construction should include community consultations and participation.
The Bank's recent experience in other ECA countries (e.g., Tajikistan, Azerbaijan) as well as donor
experience in Albania (e.g., AEDP) demonstrated that significant value can be gained from modest
investments in promoting community interest and participation in school projects. Community participation
may serve as a safeguard measure for ensuring quality of works, timeliness of completion, as well as
further maintenance to preserve the investment.
10. The project capacity building objective can be achieved only if it enjoys a strong commitment by
the Borrower during project implementation. Capacity building activities are essential for sustainable
reforms. However, these activities are usually a time- and labor-consuming process that cannot produce
quick and tangible results. In addition, these activities involve technical assistance that many client
countries consider an ineffective use of credit/loan funds or a luxury. Therefore, if the capacity building
- 15-



objective does not have Government's commitment and support during project implementation, the
activities designed to achieve the objective will surely fail. For example, under the School Rehabilitation
and Capacity Building Project, capacity building started only when the Ministry was willing to use IDA
Credit funds for technical assistance and training. The Bank should clearly indicate to the Government that
such lack of commitment to agreed objectives may jeopardize future lending operations. At the same time,
the Government's unwillingness to use technical assistance can be overcome by carefully designing such
technical assistance and demonstrating its benefits. For example, it is important to avoid any strain on the
Government's capacity to absorb technical assistance. Under the School Rehabilitation and Capacity
Building Project, successful consultancies were those that were based on close collaboration, an awareness
of the client's needs, the Albanian cultural context, and tangible results.
I 1. High turnover in the technical cadre in the public sector erodes project investments in capacity
building. The Bank should encourage the Government to increase stability in the technical cadre through a
range of means, including a well conceived and implemented civil service reform. In addition, a project
design should envisage more specific, short-term training as a way to avoid concentrating training on a few
individuals.
12. The responsibilities of the Borrower's implementing agency and the PCU should never blur.
Under the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, weak capacity in the Ministry of
Education made it difficult to separate the responsibilities of the PCU from those of the Ministry. The PCU
should coordinate all project activities and handle all procurement and disbursement actions required by the
project. The Ministry and its associated agencies should implement the project. Among the remedies are
close supervision as well as stabilization of the technical cadre through a successful civil service reform.
II. Lessons for Bank/Client relationships
1. The Bank should learn more about the Client's political and social history to better understand the
motivations of different players and more effectively design and conduct its relations. Social needs
assessments, as well as more effective involvement of local Bank staff, could be very helpful in this respect.
2. The Bank should continuously promote better understanding by the Client of the Bank's mission
and goals in the country and the sector, its comparative advantages, as well as the guidelines and
procedures to be followed with a Bank-financed project. Solid and consistent communication between
the Bank and the Borrower is essential in building an appropriate climate for successful project
implementation.
3. The Bank should be particularly concerned about properly conveying its intentions and ideas to
counterparts, especially to those who have little experience in Bank-financed projects, different conceptual
frameworks, and limited English capacity. There is always a danger that much of what the Bank is saying
will be lost due to the excessive use of the Bank's jargon, unfamiliar terms, or inadequate attention to the
quality of translation.
- 16-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Bonrower/implementing agenc)y.
Borrower's ICR attached as Annex 8
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
*Outcome indicators were not developed at
project appraisal since there was no such
requirement. The indicators listed here were
developed at the time of the mid-term review
(June, 1998).
Rehabilitate 237 schools and construct 38
schools                                                                      157 schools were rehabilitated and 26
schools constructed. Fewer schools than
originally planned were rehabilitated and
replaced due to: (i) increases in prices after
price liberalization that occurred after the
appraisal cost estimates; and (ii) movements
of populations from rural to urban areas that
made it necessary to build more urban
schools that were larger and more expensive.
Create a school mapping data base that                                       Achieved. the school-mapping database and
players are motivated to update and use and                                 the decision support system with which the
that serves as input to an embryonic                                         database is integrated were developed and
management information system.                                               installed in the Ministry. The personnel of the
Ministry's Investment Department which will
be the prospective primary user of the
database in the immediate term, received
initial training in using the database and the
software. Guidelines for the training manual
were developed. The database and the
software represent important building blocks
for a comprehensive education management
information system (EMIS) to be developed
under the Education Reform Project.
Train professional staff and equip the Center                                Achieved. The staff of the CEAE was
for Evaluation, Assessment, and                                              expanded from 3 persons to 5. Each of the
Examinations                                                                 staff received training in learning assessment
concepts and methods. The Centeres
premises were rehabilitated, and the
necessary equipment was purchased and
installed. At the Ministry's order, the Center
completed its first large assessment task: the
development of an item bank for the
standardized portion of the higher education
entrance examinations of 2000. The
Education Reform Project continues to focus
on strengthening the Center to develop
feedback on the teaching and leaming
process in Albania.
Convert State Textbook Publishing House                                      Achieved. The STPH and TOE were
and Textbook Distribution Enterprise into                                   converted into joint-stock companies as the
self-financing state enterprises by March,                                  first step of privatization. The staff of these
1999                                                                        two firms received training in a business plan
development, and were introduced to
commercial publishing and distribution
practices in other countries through extemal
studies. Under the Education Reform
Project, the privatization process will
continue.
- 18-



Output Indicators:
Indicator/M.9#1[ii:s   i#t S                                       __________
*Output indicators were developed at project  Though, project components were
appraisal (May, 1994) based on original  significantly modified during the mid-term
components:                           review (June, 1998), output indicators were
not formally modified.
237 schools rehabilitated and furnished with                               157 schools rehabilitated and fumished with
basic fumiture                                                               basic furmiture
38 schools repiaced and furnished in Kukes,                                 26 schools were replaced and fumished in
Puke, and Shkoder districts                                                  Kukes, Puke, and Shkoder districts
trained personnel and computerized                                          the school-mapping database and the
management information systems in 3                                         decision support system developed and
districts                                                                   installed in the Ministry. The personnel of the
Ministry's Investment Department received
initial training in using the database and the
software.
Cadre of MOE staff familiar with education                                  the management training activity was not
management practces in a variety of other                                   pursued, and, therefore, canceled during the
countries                                                                   mid-term review (June, 1998)
Knowledge base: Resource library of
seminars on recent development in teaching
and leaming
Core specialists on assessment trained
Twinning: Links between the Pedagogical
Institute in Albania and similar centers in
other countres established
Desk-top publishing and equipment fully
operatonal
Training in publishing and financial
management completed
Action plan developed for restructuring of
textbook provision
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
X~~Prc cos B'' CmwWponent               " W  E     $ m5io        US  nfn    _______
School Rehabilitation                                   10.30            10.23           99.3
Planning and Management Infornation                      0.19             0.24          126.3
Quality Assurance in Basic Education                     0.21             0.22          104.7
Textbook Improvement                                     0.11             0.06           54.5
Project Coordination Unit                                0.49             0.44           89.8
Total Baseline Cost                                     11.30            11.19
Total Project Costs                11.30            11.19
Total Financing Required                 11.30           11.19
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Epnltr Ctry           '     G           t4C          Oher      ______ _______._, 
1. Works                      0.00          3.10         4.00         0.00          7.10
(0.00)       (2.50)        (3.30)       (0.00)        (5.80)
2. Goods                      0.00          2.70         0.80          0.00         3.50
(0.00)       (2.50)        (0.70)       (0.00)        (3.20)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.60         0.00          0.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.60)       (0.00)        (0.60)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.10         0.10
Incremental recurring        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
costs
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00          5.80         5.40          0.10         11.30
(0.00)       (5.00)        (4.60)       (0.00)        (9.60)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivaIent)
X 4 , X ~~~~~Prcueet Me|!=thodlt|Jc6
1. Works                      0.00          3.10         4.00         0.00          7.10
(0.00)       (2.50)        (3.33)       (0.00)        (5.83)
2. Goods                      0.00          2.60         0.80         0.00          3.40
(0.00)       (2.40)        (0.70)       (0.00)        (3.10)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.60         0.00          0.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.60)       (0.00)        (0.60)
- 20 -



4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.10           0.10D
Incremental recurring           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
costs
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)_
Total                         0.00           5.70           5.40           0.10           11.20
(0.00)         (4.90)         (4.63)         (0.00)         (9.53)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivlent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisd Estimate            Atum oatest EsI               ak Gvtte
|=C_ ~~~~~~Blank             GoL        CO        fBank      Govt.  COF. Bank   G;ovt._ CoF.
School Rehabilitation     8.70      1.60      0.00       8.63       1.60     0.00     99.2  100.0   0.0
Planning and Management   0.19      0.00      0.00       0.24      0.00      0.00    126.3   0.0    0.0
Information
Quality Assurance in Basic   0.21   0.00      0.00       0.22      0.00      0.00    104.8   0.0    0.0
Education
Textbook improvement      0.11      0.00      0.00       0.06      0.00      0.00     54.5   0.0    0.0
Project Coordination Unit    0.39   0.10      0.00       0.34      0.10      0.00     87.2  100.0   0.0
Total                     9.60      1.70      0.00       9.49       1.70     0.00     98.9  100.0   0.0
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cyele              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
( 2 Economists, I FMS, ete.)       Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
May, 1993 - January,          6   ITask Manager                         S                  S
1994                               2 Education Specialists
I Operations Officer
1 Procurement Specialist
1 Project Officer (Tirana Office)
Appraisal/Negotiation
February, 1994 - May,         5    1 Task Manager                       S                  S
1994                               1 Education Specialist
I Operations Officer
I Procurement Specialist
I Project Officer (Tirana
Office)
Supervision
October, 1994 - March,        12  2 Task Managers/Team                  S                  S
2000                               Leaders
I Program Team Leader
I Operations Officer
2 Project Officers
2 Procurement Specialists
3 Education Specialists
I Architect
ICR
July, 2000                    3    1 Senior Operations Officer          S                  S
I Education Specialist
I Consultant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
_________________N_ o. Staff weeks                               u$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               46.1                        122.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    21.4                         61.6
Supervision                             126.8                        224.0
ICR                                       6.0                          8.0
Total                                   200.3                        416.0
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
LI Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
El Private sector development              0 H  O SU SM  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHS *S  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
E Overall                                            OHS OS   O U  Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
E Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              OHS OS  O U  O HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS    0 U  0 HU
El Overall                                           O HS OS  O  U  O HU
Unsatisfactory at the mid-term review, and satisfactory by the end of the project
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, Staff Appraisal Report No.1 2766-ALB
School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, Development Credit Agreement, July 8, 1994
School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, Aide-Memoires, Form 590s, and Project Supervision
Reports
School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, Audited Project Financial Statements, 1998, 1999
Miscellaneous disbursement and procurement information
Education Reform Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report No.20019-ALB
- 26 -



Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26330)
FOR A CREDIT
OF SDR 6.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
1.    Evaluation of project objectives
The Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) has been responsible for implementation of project
components. In this context MoES has disbursed $US 9.4 (contribution of IDA) and $US 1.7 million
equivalent (contribution of GoA). The project has helped the MoES to sustain delivery of basic education
services during Albania's difficult economic transition and to build institutional capacity for planning,
management and quality assurance of education.
1.1.   Formulation of Objectives: Project objectives were formulated as follows:
(a)    acceleration of teaching premises (schools) rehabilitation in 37 districts of Albania; and
(b)    building of capacities in important institutions to encourage effective use of fiscal sources and
assure quality of education.
1.2.   Reasons for selecting objectives: Project objectives were selected in compliance with the
Education priorities in Albania in the 90-ies, which continue to be a priority also today. The project
preparation preliminary study supported by the Japanese Grant indicated that 60% of primary and
secondary education schools needed either rehabilitation or total reconstruction. The total value of
rehabilitation or construction of new schools was estimated at US$ 80 million. This was the reason why
90.6% of IDA's credit was required to cover school rehabilitation. Priority was given to construction of
new elementary and basic education schools.
The second objective of capacity building was selected for the following reasons:
I.    Albania's entering into the road to democracy and the new economic rules effected the education
sector;
2.     The main education institutions were confronted with the lack of capacities to face these new
challenges;
3.    The long period of isolation has made the existing capacities outdated; and
4.    The Government had no sufficient financial capacity to invest in building and renovation of
capacities.
Project objectives were divided in other specific objectives, each corresponded to a project sub-component:
(a) Creation of a visual database for schools to be used to rationalize MoES decisions and structures; (b)
Training of professional staff and equipment of Assessment Center; (c) Conversion of State Textbook
Publishing House (STPH) and Textbook Dissemination Enterprise (TDE) into private entities.
At the end of the project: (a) Visual database for schools was set up; (b) The professional staff of the
Assessment Center was trained in the best training centers (including CITO) and the Center was provided
with the principal equipment; and (c) STPH and TDE were not privatized because privatization would have
enormous impact on textbooks and provisions of privatization law could not force these enterprises to
implement the education policy made by MoES and the Government.
- 27 -



2.     Evaluation of project components and activities
The goal of the project was to support MoES in connection with School Rehabilitation and Capacity
Building and the project was developed in these components:
(i)    School Rehabilitation
(ii)    Planning and Direction of Information in Education System
(iii)   Quality Assurance in Elementary Education (Assessment Center and Pedagogic Institute)
(iv)   Improvement of Textbooks
School Rehabilitation (US$ 10.3 million): Activities of this component included: (i) A school rehabilitation
program to ensure repair works in 1,630 classrooms in 237 schools countrywide and purchase of
equipment for these schools; and (ii) a program to replace 200 classrooms in 38 schools in Kukes, Puke
and Shkoder and purchase of equipment for these premises.
The component was implemented according to the following arrangement:
Economic Centers in the districts would select the schools and teaching premises in accordance
with the agreement between GoA and IDA at the time of signing of this agreement; draft technical
specifications and equipment needs and provide a preliminary cost estimate; prepare bid documents for
civil works and equipment using standards prepared by PIU and approved by IDA; conclude contracts
under US$ 40,000; administer all civil works contracted under their jurisdiction; supervise contractors'
work; and make payments to contractors upon completion of civil works.
PIU would collaborate with the Investment Dept. of MoES and Economic Centers to make sure
that selection criteria and construction standards were observed. PIU shall check bid packets prepared by
Economic Centers, sign bid packets for over US$ 40,000; manage the project plan for counterpart funds,
and verify whether civil works were completed in compliance with the required standards and whether
payments were effectuated appropriately.
Project financing has covered only a part of the needs. Project funds were used only for basic (8-year) and
elementary education schools. School rehabilitation program was coordinated by MoES and Economic
Centers in the Districts and PIU, which has arranged for implementation and supervision of the project.
Under the project were built 26 new schools with 186 classrooms and 157 schools with 1850 were
rehabilitated. 48 contracts were concluded for supplying these schools. In general, the project was spread
over 14 districts covering rehabilitation and supplying of schools with teaching materials.
Planning and Management of the Education System (US$0.2 million). Activities of this component included:
(i) A study to analyze the administrative capacities, duties and responsibilities of education administrators
in Albania and provide recommendations on administration effectiveness; and (ii) Building of a
computerized planning model for three districts to assist in administration and decision-making. The project
provided funds for development of software to assist decision-makers; automation of planning and direction
of education information to MoES and three districts; and provision of continuous training to MoES staff
and education administrators at district level. The Department of Science and the Statistics Division of
MoES were responsible for implementation of this component.
Quality Assurance in basic education (Assessment Center at the Pedagogic Institute) (0.2 US$
million). The project helped with the rehabilitation of the Pedagogic Institute's offices for use by the
Assessment Center. These premises were also provided with the hardware necessary to start assessment
activities. The staff of the Assessment Center was trained in the best intemational institutes on matters of
assessments. The Pedagogic Institute and the Assessment Center were the bodies responsible for
- 28 -



implementation of this component.
Improvement of Textbooks: With the stabilization of the situation of basic textbooks was also created the
possibility to aim at improving their quality, especially in relation to the creation of the private textbook
market. Visits abroad and technical assistance was provided for the key administrative staff concemed with
textbooks. This area was covered by international technical assistance on textbooks and was co-ordinated
by the Directors of STPH and TDE. This collaboration has at last resulted in conversion of these two
state-run enterprises in joint-stock companies. MoES was the body responsible for implementation of this
component
>     Project Implementation Unit (US$0.4 million): The project had envisaged originally a PIU
composed of a project co-ordinator, a procurement expert, a disbursement expert and a secretary, who was
required to speak some foreign languages. It was also planned for PIU to contract additional staff for
procurement, supervision and other services. The project had made available funds for PIU to: (i) purchase
hardware, office equipment and two cars to be used by PIU for supervision purposes; (ii) equipment for
office operations; (iii) auditing services; and (iv) technical assistance to help PIU and the MoES staff
involved in the project in connection with disbursement and procurement, as well as in connection with
identification of training courses in matters related to the project for PIU and MoES staff.
3. Outcome by Component
In 1997, the political situation in the country caused interruption of activities. Therefore, project
implementation may be divided in two phases: (i) from 1994 to 1997; and (ii) from 1998 to March 2000.
School Rehabilitation: Funds for this component have been completely disbursed in connection with:
(i)    157 schools rehabilitated and equipped in 14 districts, versus the objective of 237 schools in 37
districts; and
(ii)   26 new schools built and equipped in three northern districts, Kukes, Puke and Shkoder, versus the
objective of 38 new schools in the same districts.
The number of rehabilitated or newly built schools is smaller than the target set out in the project objectives
because: (i) the increase and/or liberalization of prices, which made a difference to those forecast in the cost
estimate; and (ii) movement of population from remote areas towards urban areas, which required building
of schools with more student space than the forecast. However, the end result of the project is positive, as
60,000 students benefited from this program.
Planning and Information Management: At the end of the project two out of four planned project
activities were completed, namely: a school database and a "Decision" software installed and tested in
MoES. The staff of Investment Dept., which is potentially one of the key users, has received basic training
for use of this system in allocation of funds. Instructions included in the users guide have already been
prepared and disseminated for use. The database and software play an important role to the establishment
of a modem system for planning and direction of information into the education system to be development
under the coming "Education Reform I" project. These activities were considered to be successful. MoES
used the remaining funds from this component for technical assistance to develop and maintain a donor
co-ordination activity in response of Kosovo crisis. This technical assistance, however, did not bring
positive results because of the scarce skills of the technical assistant, which resulted in a premature
termination of his contract. In general, the component has been received well for the results it achieved in
absorbing further projects in this field.
- 29 -



Assessment Center: Training related to this component has been done in compliance with the goal of
capacity building at the Center and for this reason group training was arranged for all the staff. Every
employee of the Center has received training on assessment concepts and approaches. Training was
provided through local workshops, study visits and international training programs. The Assessment Center
has been provided with office equipment and electronic and hardware equipment, purchased with project
funds, necessary to start its activity. On a Minister's instruction the Center prepared test sheets and
assessment for academic year 2000. The next WB project will continue to support this component until it is
fully completed.
Improvement of Textbooks: This component has encountered difficulties in implementation, as it required
expertise in a privatization area unknown to us as well as a legal framework to control implementation of
education policy on textbooks. At the end of the project the privatization initiative has achieved good
results. The help of international technical assistants and the collaboration of MoES experts helped in
formulating a privatization strategy which takes into account the continuation of textbook printing. On the
basis of this strategy, as a first step towards full privatization, STPH and TDE were converted into
joint-stock companies. Privatization process will continues under the next project.
Project Implementation Unit: During the period between 1994 and 1998 the PIU structure was
not in full compliance with the project credit agreement. During this period PIU was part of the Investment
Department of MoES and was responsible only for project co-ordination. The staff of the Investment
Department apart from its day-to-day responsibilities had to cover also procurement, disbursements and
supervision of the project. This practice and the equipment in use were far from the credit agreement, which
provided for four persons and one driver. In the middle of the project a PIU still didn't have experience,
especially in relation to component two. Moreover, the PIU was not able to supervise and implement
satisfactorily the school rehabilitation component either.
Between 1998 and March 2000 PIU was reconfigured in accordance with the project agreement. The PIU's
managing capacity was strengthened through training, which improved considerably the ability to follow up
on the project. Currently PIU is composed of a project Director, a procurement expert and a disbursement
expert, who have received training pertaining to their specific duties. The PIU offices were provided with
the necessary equipment, except the car. Auditing has demonstrated that PIU has acted correctly and in
compliance with IDA's requirements.
4.    Key factors effecting the project
>     Political situation: During execution of the project were experienced three political situations that
have had an impact on project implementation: (i) The period March - December 1997, pyramid schemes
and the aftermath of their collapse; (ii) The period September - October 1998, called the September events,
which had considerable impact on capacity building because of governance destabilization; and (iii) the
Kosovo crisis in 1999, which caused additional delays in project implementation because of the refugee
inflow.
The Position of the World Bank: The World Bank has been adaptable to political and economical
changes that have happened in Albania during project implementation. In addition, its position has been
determinant for the execution of the credit agreement, which has resulted in capacity building to ensure
absorbency of similar projects.
- 30 -



Consultants: The successful consultancy services have made possible to achieve the creation of
the school database and the proper software for data processing. In addition, consultancy services were
considered very successful in relation to the establishment and functioning of the Assessment Center and
other capacities that resulted from the exchange of experience with the consultants hired under the project.
)0.    The position of the Government: Since project approval in June 1994 until June 1998 only 15%
of the project funds were disbursed, which shows insufficient commitment. After 1998, however, the
attitude of the Government towards technical assistance changed, which resulted in good progress in project
implementation. MoES became more interested in furthering education reform.
There have been other factors affecting project implementation, such as failure to structure the PIU in
accordance with the project agreement, lack of construction and material standards, etc.
5.     Evaluation of the Government's Performance
The Government has been very interested in the implementation of the project. Specific MoES officials
have been assigned the duty to follow up on the project components. There has been a good collaboration
amongst the MoES and WB working groups. The Government, however, could not provide sufficient funds
for school maintenance, which is foreseen to be rectified in a near future. We may say that the overall
attitude of the Government towards the project has been positive.
6.     Evaluation of the World Bank's Performance
The Bank accurately identified project priorities to education reform on the basis of sector analysis. In
addition, the World Bank responded to the immediate Government needs related to education, such as
massive school rehabilitation. In general, the World Bank could not possibly anticipate the difficulties
associated with the implementation of capacity building component. Nevertheless, given the fact that this
part represented only about 7% of the project disbursements, it may be said that the attitude of the World
Bank was correct.
7.     Evaluation of the PIU Perfornance
PIU has co-ordinated well the project activities. MoES and other agencies under its responsibility have
assisted project implementation through the necessary co-ordination with PIU. PIU has performed all the
disbursements and procurement required under the project. There have been, however, lessons learned,
which have been reflected in the preparation of the new terms of references for PIU and the provision of
PIU with the required staff. In general, it may be said that PIU has performed well.
8.     Project cost:
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost by Component           Appraisal Estimate        Actual I       Percentage of
US$ million           Latest          Appraisal
Estimate US$
million
School Rehabilitation                                     10.30           10.23              99.3%
Planing and Management Information                         0.19            0.24               126%
- 31 -



Quality Assurance in Basic Education                       0.21           0.22               105%
Textbook improvement                                       0.11           0.06                55%
Project Coordination Unit                                 0.49            0.44              89.8%
Total Baseline Cost                                       11.30          11.19
Total Project Costs                  11.30          11.19
Total Financing Required                  11.30           11.19
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (appraisal estimate; in US$ million equivalent)l/
Expenditure Category    ICB      NCB       Other- 2/        NBF         Total Cost
Works                  0.00           3.1        4.0   0.00   (0.00)             7.1
(0.00)     (2.50)       (3.3)                          (5.8)
Goods                  0.00           2.7       0.80    0.00   (0.00)            3.5
(0.00)      (2.5)      (0.70)                          (3.2)
Services               0.00          0.00       0.60             0.00            0.6
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.60)           (0.00)         (0.6)
Miscellaneous           0.00         0.00       0.00              0.1            0.1
Incremental Recurring   (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
Costs
Total                  0.00           5.8        5.4        0.1                 11.3
(0.00)      (5.0)       (4-6)       (0.0)              (9.6)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (actual/latest estimate; US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category    ICB      NCB       Other            NBF         Total Cost
Works                  0.00           3.1        4.0   0.00   (0.00)             7.1
(0.00)     (2.50)       (3.3)                          (5.8)
Goods                   0.00          2.6       0.80    0.00   (0.00)            3.4
(0.00)      (2.4)      (0.70)                          (3.1)
Services               0.00          0.00       0.60             0.00            0.6
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.60)           (0.00)         (0.6)
- 32 -



Miscellaneous         0.00        0.00       0.00            0.1           0.1
Incremental Recurring    (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Costs
Total                 0.00         5.7        5.4       0.1               11.2
(0.00)     (4.9)      (4.6)      (0.0)             (9.5)
Project Financing by Components (actual/latest estimate; (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                     Bank                  Government
School Rehabilitation                  8.63                         1.60
Planning and Management                0.24                         0.00
Information
Quality Assurance in Basic             0.22                         0.00
Education
Textbook Improvement                   0.06                         0.00
Project Coordination Unit              0.34                         0.10
Total                                  9.49                         1.70
- 33 -






IBRED 28467R
15_  1 ] 8 30   J    , 19009                       /93         20100                22 1 
Kt   ~!                                                   /-1    FED.   REP                      F  YUGOSLAV IA
-2TI'                    >  ?                                                   p,   (SERBIA / MO   TENEGRO)2
.230,                                                                                                                42-30, -  N  ,  4  ,  Bajrzr
69~~~~~~~~~~~~~$IDjs KomonPTA                              J',J PUreheKErnO   Iffs                 --
AL A IA -                                         RlVEkS.    uishArrs                  J       ffl<,*z 9
V61C u
- ~   ~~~    S f - tCTSt iTIESN>#IS      -;SU)    s. a                                       7w
*   DISTRICT r: stCEONTERST
t~~~~ NAINVAIA                                              iR :A         * rhe    o 7t '            r    0004 
ro1rio s ::- lh  . balhA\. DiSTR:iCT BOUNARiS [
=C- -=~ INENTOA - OUNDARIESX 
'- GE>^NY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i PUKADt *s';,\^- 
LPYO' ~~'
A                                                                      s BArrs  jt
NAIJOALCAPITAL -                                                r6-s                  V      -              4110
Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
JLERaS R
IN5m,f ,,nSr,Ao INcT~.o NAT.rNAL n UNDw
1,8-0?3 0-  -        i4'Q0 -, - :    ;- - '+wt -<z- - \3   >. - t E                  20>30                ,1-040
IN MEES   Ft.Y.                          .                                                           R.h
0  LITHUANIA ~~~~~~                                              ~ACDO I
"STHY                    BELARUS                   -.  Kt0'       T I RrrA<N                        e
2OLAN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rb
FE2. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(j ~~~~~, ~~~~  A NIA2~~~~~~~~                              SARANDU~~~~ A
~~~ GREECE Aogegn  TURKEY~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~o
Sen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Irse         3Q/~Q-               2020'                21'G
StW E D EJ!  RUSSLAN  Ao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL



