Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2633 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project)
 between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 8, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2633 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1994, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Economic Centers" means the units of the Ministry of Education in each 
district responsible for school buildings and supplies;
(b)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Pedagogic Institute" means the institute of MOE responsible for national 
curriculum development and retraining of teachers;
(d)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit within the MOE; 
 
(e)
"State Budget" means the state budget of the Borrower; 
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter dated May 23, 1994 
(PPF Agreement Letter ALB P874-0 ALB) between the Borrower and the Association, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  3
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2004 and ending April 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOE, Economic Centers and the Pedagogic Institute with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, education 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain the allocation of budget for recurrent expenditures for 
eight year education as a percentage of the State Budget for 
overall recurrent expenditures at a level at least equal to the 
level provided in the 1994 approved State Budget; and
(ii)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Page  5
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Regional Vice President
      Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                3,724,000        80%
(2) Goods                      1,900,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
Page  6
(3) Consultants'                 142,000        100%
    services
(4) Fellowships and              285,000        100%
    training
(5) Refund of                     89,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6) Unallocated                  760,000
         TOTAL                 6,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 31, 1994.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and 
services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to rehabilitate school 
facilities and build institutional capacity to stimulate efficient use of fiscal 
resources and assure quality of learning outcomes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
School Rehabilitation
 
1.
School Repair Program:
 
Completion of repairs to school buildings selected according to Schedule 4, 
paragraph 2(a) of this Agreement and provision of basic school furniture and 
equipment.
2.
School Replacement Program:
 
Completion of school substitution requirements and provision of basic school 
furniture and equipment in Kukes, Puke and Shkoder districts.
Part B:
Key Sector Capacities
 
1.
Planning and Management Information
 
(a)
Computerization of planning and management information system on 
education in the MOE and in at least three pilot districts to be selected by MOE and 
approved by the Association.
(b)
Provision of training to upgrade the management skills of MOE staff and 
Page  7
education administrators at the district level.
2.
Quality Assurance in Basic Education
 
Assistance for restructuring and development of the Pedagogic Institute and MOE, 
and provision of training to establish a knowledge base of recent developments in 
approaches to quality assurance in education and recent developments in cognitive, 
child and adolescent development, and approaches to the teaching and learning process.
3.
Textbook Improvement
 
Improvement of the quality of textbooks and supplementary materials through 
training of key personnel in publishing management and development of textbook 
provision policy that facilitates involvement of the private sector in educational 
publishing.
4.
Project Coordination Unit
 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the PCU to manage and coordinate the 
receipt and utilization of external funds supporting activities relating to education, 
including activities under the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with 
procedures and bidding documents acceptable to the Association; and (b) civil works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $40,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,300,000, may be procured locally on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three contractors, and if the Borrower cannot obtain three 
quotations for the procurement of such civil works, with prior approval of the 
Association, such civil works up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $400,000 may be procured on the basis of negotiated contracts pursuant to 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
(a)
Items or groups of items for school and classroom furniture under Part A 
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,470,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of  competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (b) items or groups of items for 
school and classroom furniture under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$400,000, may be procured locally on the basis of quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers, and if the Borrower cannot obtain three quotations for the 
procurement of such school and classroom furniture, with prior approval of the 
Association, such school and classroom furniture up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $150,000 may be purchased from suppliers on the basis of 
negotiated contracts pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items for goods, other than school and classroom furniture, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $150,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least 
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Items or groups of items for goods, other than school and classroom furniture, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $50,000, may be procured locally under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Page  8
Association.
5.
Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature, including learning resource 
materials and computer software, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $30,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
(1)
With respect to contracts for works which are awarded in 
accordance with paragraph 1 under Part A: (i) the first three contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more; (ii) each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (iii) the first three contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of less than $40,000. 
(2)
With respect to contracts for furniture which are awarded in 
accordance with paragraph 2 under Part A: (i) the first three contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less; and (ii) the first three contracts estimated 
to cost the equivalent of more than $10,000 and $100,000 or less. 
(3)
With respect to contracts for goods which are awarded in 
accordance with paragraph 3 under Part A of the first three contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $30,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
Page  9
employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
The overall coordination and management of the Project shall be vested in PCU 
which shall be maintained and shall operate with staff and resources and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association to coordinate and supervise the carrying out 
of the Project and the procurement of works, goods and services thereunder.
2.
Responsibility for execution of Project components under Parts A and B of the 
Project shall be as follows:
(a)
Part A of the Project
 
This part shall be implemented by the Economic Centers in each district, under 
the supervision of MOE. In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Economic Centers:
(i)
shall make a selection among the eligible schools within their 
district which submit: (a) a certificate of the relevant district 
confirming that the school and school site, with land title, is 
permanent within the district; (b) an approval of the Economic 
Center on the structural soundness of the school; and (c) an 
assurance from the school management on building maintenance and 
security. The priority shall be given to the schools with the 
highest student per classroom ratio; and
(ii)
may procure civil works and school and classroom furniture to cost 
the equivalent of less than $40,000, according to Schedule 3, 
Section I, Part A, paragraph 1 (b) and 2 of this Agreement.
(b)
Part B of the Project
 
(i)
Part B.1 of the Project shall be implemented by the Economics 
Department of MOE.
(ii)
Part B.2 of the Project shall be implemented by the Pedagogic 
Institute of MOE.
(iii)
Part B.3 of the Project shall be implemented by MOE.
 
(iv)
Part B.4 of the Project shall be implemented by the PCU of MOE.
 
3.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
by June 30, 1996, undertake jointly with the Association a mid-term 
review of the Project;
(b)
by April 30 and October 31 of each year, submit to the Association a 
consolidated report of the status of project implementation; and 
(c)
by November 30 of each project year, review jointly with the Association: 
(i) draft education sector budget and sources of financing; (ii) detailed program for 
school repair and replacement in the forthcoming year; and (iii) progress in 
implementing the adjustment of teacher numbers, including monitoring of the absolute 
number of teachers in the sector and trends in student:teacher ratios at all levels.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  10
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
Page  11
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
