Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15607-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 5, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CtJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =      CFA  franc '
1 US$      =     CFA franc 500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNIS
AfDB             Atrican Development Bank
AIBEF            Isorian Family Planning Agenco CAgence lvoirienne Bi len-Ere Falmilial) - the Ivonan IPPF affiliate
AIDS             Acquired immune deficiency syndrome
AFVP             French Agency for Volunteers for Progress (Agencefranqaaie i/es nolalntirs du Progress
BGF              Ivonan operating budget (Budget general defoniciut:nement)
BSIE            Ivorian capital biudget (fu/dget spiIal dineesi.ssemeni et a dquipeneteO
BSR              Rural health care facilirv (Base de santl rural)
BHA              Beiier Health at 4frica. World Bank, 1994
CBD              Coiiimunity-based distribution (of con-uceptives)
CHl-R            University hospital (Centre hlospitaher utn,ervoaire)
CONGACI           sorian aonifederation of NGOs
CSE              Health District Epidemiologic Surveillance Center (Centre de Surnedl/,nce Fpidimtologiqne)
CSER             Regional Epidemiologic Surveillance Center (Cetiere de Surveillance Epidimiologique Regional)
DCEIS            Department for Control, Evaluation and Health Information (Dimcion d/u Contrle. de I'EcaluaBion et de I infornmation sanihaire)
DENIM            Department for Materiel Maiunainance and Equipment (Din-cion de I'Equipementl Ju Materiel et de la tainienance) of MSP
DE-SR'PF         Executive Directorate for Reproductive Health and Family Planning (Direction Execut,se-Sante ReprodutiineiPlanification Fant/iale)
DE-VIH,MST 'TUB Executive Directorate for HlViSexzually Transmitted Diseases and Tuberculosis (Direction kxecut,,e - Virus dIrnnmunodeficience
HIumaitie.-'.falad,evr ;exvuelle,ict Tnrusn.smiaeilTubervulo.se)
DIIS             Demographic and Health Survey
DPNI             DeparLment of Pharmaccutical and Medicine Policy (DJireciintt de la Pharmacie ei du A-//dicament) in MSP
DRH              Human Resources Departntent (Direction des Ressources Humaines) in MSP
DCGTx            Agency for conLracting and managing civil works (Dimction et cant/ole des gransdv tra,,aur)
DSC              Community lHealth Services Departmnent (Direciton de la satal cormunautairrj in MSP
EU               European Union
FP               Family planning
GPA              Global Program on AIDS (WHO. novs UNAIDS)
HIV              Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HRDP             Human Resources Development Program, a World Bank-financed sectoral adjusnment program
HRMIP            Human Resouirces Management Project
ICN              Interntional Conference on Nutrition
ICO              International Cooperation Division, WHO, Geneva
IDA              International Development Association
IEC              Intormation, education and communication
IFC              International Finance Corporation
[NHP             National Institute for Public Hygiene /not.titul .VationialodHygitite Publique)
INS              National Statistical Institute (Instituf National de la Siiamisttque)
INSP             National Public Health Institute (Instihult Ntional de Sanei Publique)
IPPF             International Planned Parenthood Federation
KfW              German tinancial development assistance agency (Kreditansoallfuer Wiedenrufbou)
MEF              Ministry of the Economy and Finance (A-lhnistire de I Economie et et des l1inances)
MIGA             Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIS              Management Inlormation System (SIG)
MSP              Ministry of Public Health (,A/into/ere dcla Sanr/ Puh/ique)
MSPAS            former NMinistry of Public Health and Social Affairs (Alinitred de /Sant/ Puhlique et des -ffaires Sociales)
NACP             National AIDS Control Programn
NGO              Non-governmental organization
OD               Organzation development
PAGRH            Human Resources Management Project (Projet d./ppuw d la Gestion des Ressources Humaines)
PMA              Minimum package of health services (Paque mininum dXactuinis)
PNDS             National Health Development Plan (Plu/a natioinal de delveloppemehn sanitaire) of MSP
PNPF             National Family Planning Program (Prgrmninie natimna1de planificautonJamnili/1c)
PNLS             National AIDS Control Program (Programme ,totional de lutre contire le SIDA)
PSI              Population Services International, an NGO
PSP              Public Health Pharmacy (Ph/// acie de /a Ssnl/ Pubh/que), a pwra-staral body under MSP supervision
RCI              Republic of Cbie d'Ivoire
R-H              Reproductive health (including senual health and family planning)
SIG              Management information system (Scsiinec d'inJoruti.oon ei de gesit n)
STD              Sexually transmitted disease
UNAIDS           Joint MJN agency AIDS program
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
UNFPA            United Nations Population Fund
ULNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WDR93            World Development Report 1993. Ilnesinigtn Healih. World Bank, 1993
WlIO             World Hcalth Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
The CFA  franc is currently tied to the French franc at a rate of 100:1. The French franc is currently floating
within the European Monetary System.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
1. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY.... 1
2. HEALTH AND THE HEALTH SECTOR ................................................................3
A.  HEALTH  AND  DEVELOPMENT ................................................................3
B.  HEALTH  SECTOR  FINANCING  .........................................5......................5
C.  DONOR  ASSISTANCE ...............................................................7
1. Previous Bank Operations in the Sector and Lessons Learned .............7
2.  Other donors ...............................................................8
D.  KEY  ISSUES ...............................................................9
1. Program Management and Decentralization: Ensuring Universal
Access to  Services ................................................................9
2. New Priorities: Reproductive Health, Nutrition, IEC, and Partnerships
with Non-Governmental Partners ...........................................................   10
3. GOVERNMENT  STRATEGY   ........................                                         ....................................... 11
A. SECTOR STRATEGY REVIEW FOR THE CONSULTATIVE GROUP .........                                                     ............. 11
B. MANAGING CHANGE: THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF ACTION RESEARCH,
STUDIES, TRAINING  AND  PILOT PROJECTS ..........................................................   13
4. THE INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT .............. 14
A.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES  .....................                              .......................................... 14
B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...............................................................                                       15
C.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  AND  FISCAL IMPACT ....................                                     ........................ 20
D.  PROJECT COST AND  FINANCING   ...............................................................  21
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................................                                                23
A.  STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION  .............................................................. 23
B.  MANAGEMENT ...............................................................                                               24
C. THE ROLES OF NON-GoVERNMENTAL AND COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS .... 26
D.  BENEFICIARIES, TARGET GROUPS, AND  PARTICIPATION  .............                                           ................... 27
E.  ANNUAL AND  MID-TERM   REVIEWS  .............................................................. 29
F.  PROCUREMENT  ............................................................... 29
G.  DISBURSEMENT ............................................................... 33
H.  ACCOUNTING, AUDITING  AND  REPORTING  .............................                                 ...................... 34
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................................                                             34
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............                                                              ...................... 36



ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Socio-economic indicators
Annex 2:    Letter of Health Policy (in French)
*Annex 3:  Health Sector Organization in Cote d'lvoire (in French)
Annex 4:   Health Budgets and Expenditures, 1991-1995
*Annex 5:  Institutional Development of the Ministry of Public Health
*Annex 6:  The Minimum Package of Health Services (in French)
*Annex 7:  Execution of the Health District Component (in French)
*Annex 8:  Reproductive Health and Reproductive Health Services
*Annex 9:  Strengthening of National Capacity for Epidemiological Surveillance and
Control of Endemic Diseases and Diseases of High Epidemic Risk (in
French)
*Annex 10: The Pharmaceuticals Sub-Sector
*Annex 11: Nutrition Programs (in French)
*Annex 12: Information and Health
*Annex 13: Management and Planning: Financing and Financial Management of Health
Services
*Annex 14: Non-Governmental and Community Organizations
*Annex 15: Client Consultations (in French)
*Annex 16: Information on Health from  1995 Household Survey Data
*Annex 17: Human Resources in the Health Sector
*Annex 18: Economic Justification and Analyses
Annex 19:  Detailed Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
*Annex 20a: Details of External Technical Assistance
*APnnex 20b:Training
*Axnnex 20c: Contractual Staff
Annex 21: Disbursement Schedule
*Annex 22: Project Management and Project Implementation
Annex 23: Monitoring Indicators
Annex 24: Supervision Plan
*Documents in Project File
MAP: IBRD 26952
* Annexes marked with an asterisk (*) are not being distributed with the main report;
they are included in the Project File and available on request.
This project was prepared by Mr. A. Edward Elmendorf (Pr. Public Health Management Specialist, AFTHR), with
support from Mmes/Messrs Claude Bodart (Public Health Specialist, AFTHR), Denis Broun
(Pharmaceuticals Specialist, HDD), Thierry Brun (Sr. Food Security Specialist AFTHR), John Elder
(Sociologist AF4PH), Akintola Fatoyinbo (Communications Specialist, AF4DR), Yves Genevier (Public
Health Specialist, AF5PH), Judy Harrington (Population Specialist, AFTHR), Brigitte Imperial
(Operations Officer, AF4WA), Richard Seifinan (Nutrition Specialist AF5PH), and Debrework Zewdie
(AIDS Specialist, HDD). Messrs Roger Key and Charles Humphreys are the managing Acting Division
Chief and Acting Department Director, respectively, for this operation. Messrs Ian Porter and Olivier
Lafourcade were the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, when this operation
was designed, appraised and negotiated.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of C6te d'Ivoire (RCI)
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Public Health (MSP)
Beneficiaries:       Users of health services, particularly among the relatively less
well off and presently under-served populations
Poverty Category:    The Project is part of the program of targeted interventions.
Without being exclusively targeted towards the poor, the
Project represents an operational, health systems-oriented
approach to a poverty-conscious health services strategy.
Credit Amount:       SDR 27.7 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives.    The objectives of the proposed Integrated Health Services
Development Project, within the framework of the
Government's National Health Development Plan, are to (a)
expand access to health services and improve their utilization;
(b) make health services available on a sustainable basis; and
(c) improve the ability of the MSP to analyze health problems,
and to formulate, monitor and evaluate policies, strategies and
programs. The Project would seek to establish the foundation
for universal availability of cost-effective, technically and
culturally appropriate health services that are affordable and
sustainable to the people and country as a whole, by expanding
service delivery for a minimum package of health care and
reproductive health services, and by expanding MSP capacity
at the headquarters level.
Project Description.   The Project consists of a three-year set of priority Government
programs in four main areas: (a) the minimum package of
health services (PMA); (b) reproductive health; (c) health
planning and management; and (d) information and health.
Service delivery (components (a) and (b)) includes: (i)
investment and start-up costs for PMA introduction in about
fourteen districts, including nutrition, pharmaceuticals,
training, reproductive health, and IEC services; and (ii) an



ii
accelerated program of reproductive health services, including
family planning and sexually transmitted diseases (such as
HIV/AIDS), through specialized public sector and NGO clinics
and the addition of family planning services to non-specialized
public sector health clinics. Institutional strengthening
activities (components (c) and (d)) cover the following areas:
(i) organization development of the MSP; (ii) information
systems (MIS), including epidemiological surveillance (such as
onchocerciasis) and continuous monitoring and feedback of
user perspectives on services; (iii) training of prescribers in use
of generic drugs and strengthening of quality control
laboratory services; (iv) health care financing (including
mutual insurance and complementary private insurance); (v)
financial management; and (vi) review of training programs
and strengthening of personnel management in further pursuit
of actions started under the HRMP.
Financing Plan.       See para. 4.22.
Project Benefits.     The Project will contribute to long-term  improvements in
health outcomes, particularly reduced fertility, improved child
health, and a relatively reduced burden from sexually
transmitted and other diseases.  The other benefits of the
Project will be institutional: strengthened MSP capacity and
strengthened service delivery, and expansion of the focus of
health policy makers beyond traditional curative care to
preventive services, reproductive health and - to some extent -
nutrition. Work undertaken for WDR93, BHA, and other
country-specific studies in Africa clearly demonstrate that the
proposed approach - provision of a minimum package of health
services by community-supported health centers, first referral
hospitals, and health districts - is the least cost method to
achieve substantial and sustainable health gains.
Project Risks.        The  main  non-quantifiable  risks  concern:  (a)  limited
commitment to universally accessible, cost-effective PHN
interventions that are feasible and sustainable, including
particularly reproductive health, with the associated risk of
political interference; (b) the resistance to change generated by
substantial past investments in facilities and human resources
oriented towards health services models, and a centralized
public sector management culture, that are inconsistent with
the social and economic realities and needs of the country; and
(c) limited MSP and NGO capacity, both centrally and at the
periphery, to execute government and donor-financed



iii
programs. These risks are being mitigated by institutionalizing
regular beneficiary assessments, the recently completed
institutional assessment of MSP and the follow-up organization
development program, locating overall responsibility for the
Project in the Minister's Cabinet, building institutional support
for health services provided by community associations, local
authorities, and NGOs into the Project, and limiting Project
external financing to four years. Government ownership of the
Project both outside and within the MSP needs, nonetheless, to
be increased. A Project launch workshop will be held to that
end, IEC activities are planned, allocations of staff time for
supervision are planned commensurate to the task, and trust
fund support for supervision work is being pre-programmed.
The main risks that have been quantified concern an increase in
the cost of the PMA, a decline in Government financial support
to health, and the impact of reduced economic growth. A 50
percent increase in the cost of the PMA, either by under-
estimation of present costs or by expansion of the range of
services provided, would increase MSP expenditures on
universal coverage of health services by about two-thirds; this
shows the importance of attention to cost containment as Cote
d'Ivoire pursues the goal of universal access to health care.
Financing the PMA with GDP growth at 50 percent of the rate
projected by the Bank, and with a 50 percent decline in the
share of Government expenditures devoted to health would
require an increase of one-third in the health share of
household expenditures from its current level of 4.5 percent, to
6.0 percent. While conceivable, such a shift would require a
major communications effort which a Government not giving
priority to health would undoubtedly have difficulty making.
Financing universal PMA coverage with a reduction of
economic growth by 50 percent but keeping the current MSP
share in Government expenditures is projected to be feasible, if
necessary. The Government's MSP budget projections through
1999 are consistent with the growth path that would be needed
to achieve universal coverage under the PMA program in ten
years.
Project ID:  1214



I



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND COUNTRY
ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.1   During the period 1980-93, the Government relied exclusively on internal
adjustment measures to redress large fiscal and current account imbalances as well as the
structural factors constraining dynamic private sector development and growth.
However, this strategy failed to reverse the economic decline, which was particularly
evident in the private sector. Against this background, the Government adopted a
medium-term economic framework (MTF) in the early 1 990s which recognized the need
to restore international competitiveness. But the actions carried out under the MTF were
insufficient to reduce the overvaluation of the CFA franc and reverse the recession which
actually deepened in 1993.
1.2   The 50 percent devaluation in January  1994 was accompanied by a
comprehensive stabilization and structural adjustment program.   It has shown
encouraging results during the last two years. Inflation was brought under control within
months following the parity change, yielding a change in the price index of 32.5 percent
in 1994 and about 8 percent during 1995. The reduction of inflation was largely
accomplished through a restrictive wage policy, by increasing nominal public sector
wages less than inflation. As a result, the Government wage bill has fallen from about
10.7 percent of GDP in 1993 to 7.9 percent in 1994 and to 6.9 percent in 1995. A
similar, although less restrictive, policy stance was adopted by the private sector.
1.3   Fiscal policy continues to be the cornerstone of the stabilization program. The
Government met its revenue and expenditure targets in 1994 and 1995, thereby
generating primary balance surpluses in the order of 1.6 and 3.2 percent of GDP
respectively. While the reduction of many taxes (VAT, petroleum taxes, and import
tariffs) in early 1994 helped dampen inflationary pressures, it reduced revenue as a share
of GDP and required compensatory measures in the form of reintroducing export taxes
on coffee and cocoa. However, the Government has since reduced the export tax on
these commodities, and it is expected that their importance within overall government
revenue will fall from about 27 percent in 1994-95 to less than 20 percent by the end of
1996.
1.4   With the successful stabilization effort, the Government has also deepened its
structural adjustment program. Since the devaluation, the Government has implemented
key components of its trade reforms, including a simplification and reduction of import
tariffs as well as the elimination of a series of non-tariff barriers. Moreover, the
Government has begun a far-reaching liberalization process in rice and maritime
transport and shown its determination to confront vested interest groups in order to



2
reduce transaction costs, thereby further increasing the competitiveness of the Ivorian
economy. Other areas of progress include the acceleration of the privatization program,
and the adoption of the new labor code and the new investment code.
1.5   Bank Group Assistance Strategv. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was
prepared following the devaluation and discussed by the Board in June 1994. The CAS
supports the Government's objectives of increasing real GDP growth and strengthening
external and internal competitiveness, as formulated in the 1994 PFP and its updates in
1995 and 19962. Major CAS priorities are to help the Government:  (i) maintain
macroeconomic stability and strengthen public sector finances through reforms in both
revenue and expenditure; (ii) promote private sector development through continued
liberalization of trade, financial and labor markets, and through investments in
agriculture, industry, and transport; (iii) increase the effectiveness of the human
resources development program through increased focus on primary health care, AIDS,
basic education, and population policy; (iv) strengthen institutional capacity through
existing IDA-supported technical assistance programs; and (v) intensify environmental
work through projects and the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) process. This
strategy is being implemented as programmed. A CAS progress report has been
circulated to the Board under separate cover.
1.6   The CAS identifies the resolution of the country's substantial public financing
requirements, including heavy debt service obligations, as a critical factor in determining
C6te d'Ivoire's economic prospects. The CAS envisages that the World Bank would
help finance the Government budget through a series of fast-disbursing operations. The
recently approved PSD Credit is an important element in this financing scenario.
1.7  In the area of social sector development, the Bank strategy notes that there are
three major disparities in access to health care in Cote d'lvoire, by region, by income
level and by gender. The historic concentration of services on curative action in the
capital city and the neglect of such services as family planning and nutrition have
accentuated these disparities. The less well-off population groups tend to use health
services less than others. Since around 60 percent of medical consultations among the
lowest two expenditures quintiles were at public sector health centers in 1995, and about
50 percent of consultations amnong the two highest quintiles were at public sector
hospitals, a program, such as the minimum package (PMA), concentrated on
strengthening services at health centers will benefit the poor relatively more than the rich.
1.8   MIGA. Cote d'Ivoire has been a member of MIGA only since 1988. MIGA has
received nine preliminary applications for investments in the areas of oil and gas,
manufacturing and financial services. The potential investors are from Canada, France,
Switzerland and the United States, and planned investments total about US$170 million.
2 A third-year PFP was circulated to the Board on an information basis in early June 1996.



3
1.9   IFC has maintained a long-standing relationship with Cote d'Ivoire. It is fairly
optimistic about the country's economic prospects and continues to develop a solid
pipeline of projects in the coming years provided the Government stays the course on the
reform program. This positive stance is reflected in the exceptionally high level of
approvals for C6te d'Ivoire during the past two years--US$96 million. IFC's total
portfolio held, as of April 1996, was US$156.4 million, about 46 percent of which were
loan investments, and total disbursed portfolio was US$149.7 million. The pipeline
includes six projects in the agro-industry, tourism and financial sectors, of which two are
through the Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF). The Africa Project Development Facility
(APDF) is also active, with four projects in its pipeline.
2. HEALTH AND THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT
2.1    Cote d'Ivoire has traditionally given high priority to human resources in its public
expenditures but has not had health achievements consistent with this priority.
Corrective efforts were initiated in the early 1990s and will be accelerated under the
proposed Project. More than 50 percent of budget outlays were consistently devoted to
human resources in the 1981-91 period. By the late 1980s the deteriorating economic
situation and inappropriate human resources policies led the country to have social
indicators generally worse than those for countries with lower average per capita income
levels and which spent significantly less on health and education.
Table 1: Health Status and Development Indicators, C8te d'Ivoire and Selected
Countries
Country                     L ife             Maternal          GNP   Health    Health
Expectancy  Infant Mortality Rate  Total  per  Expend as  Expend
at birth   Mortality  (per 100,000 Ferility capita  share of per capita
(A/F)     Rate   live births)   Rate  SUS    GDP      SUS
(1992)    (1992)    (1988)    (1992) (1991)  (1990)    (1990)
Cote d'lvoire              53/59      94        1,000     6.6   690      1.6      28
Other WestAfrican Countries
Burkina Faso              47/50     132       800       6.5   290      0.8      25
Ghana                     53/57     81        1,000     6.1   400      1.2      14
Guinea                   44/44      133      1,000      6.5   460      1.5      18
Senegal                   47/50     80        950       6.1   720      1.7      30
AM Africa                   49/52     104       700       6.5   340      1.5      14
Developing Countries       62/65      70        450       3.6   900     2.1       41
2.2    C6te d'Ivoire spends more than most African countries on health as a share of
GDP and in per capita terms. Nevertheless, health outcomes in Cote d'Ivoire are worse
than those in comparable countries (Table 1). The infant mortality rate of 94 is higher



4
than the average of 70 for developing countries, and the maternal mortality rate estimated
at 1,000 per 100,000 live births in 1988 is among the highest in Africa. Likewise, the
fertility rate of 6.6 for 1992 is higher than for any other West African country and is
higher than the average for all of Sub-Saharan Africa.
2.3    As the economy expanded, C6te d'Ivoire invested heavily in the health sector in
the 1960s and 1970s, especially in health infrastructure. As a result, it now has 1400
public sector facilities, including four university hospitals, eight regional and general
hospitals, 29 bases de sante rurale, 340 maternities, and 700 dispensaries. Private sector
facilities include 30 clinics, 60 physician cabinets, 310 private pharmacies and 400
affiliated subsidiary djp6ts pharmaceutiques. Health care personnel include over 1,400
doctors (of which 200 in the private sector), 380 pharmacists (320 in the private sector),
over 5,000 nurses (400 in the private sector), and over 2,000 nurse-midwives. The
country's doctor per inhabitant ratio, 1/10,000, is much higher than in Sub-Saharan
Africa, as a whole, 1/24,000.
2.4   During the period 1981-88, as the economy faced increasing pressure, public
expenditure on health grew at an annual rate of 3.3 percent, somewhat below the
population growth rate. In addition, the structure of public expenditures on health was
distorted in three ways:
3  First, too much was spent on curative care relative to preventive care.
Curative care is generally both expensive and a private good, while
preventive care generates many positive externalities, is much less expensive
and is usually more cost-effective, even though private demand is generally
low for preventive care.
*   Second, too much was spent on salaries relative to non-salary recurrent
expenditure. The personnel share of recurrent expenditures grew from 67
percent in 1981 to over 75 percent in 1984.
*  Third, the share of medicines in recurrent public health expenditure declined
continuously between 1981 and 1987.
2.5   In the 1980s, the structure of health personnel in Cote d'Ivoire was distorted by
inappropriate staff ratios and competency profiles: The structure was top-heavy, with
low and deteriorating nurse-to-doctor ratios. The capacity of the MSP to plan, program
and monitor health activities was weak, reflecting the lack of trained personnel as well as
poor technical and financial information systems.
2.6   Most curative health services were located in urban centers, and therefore were
out of reach of the vast majority of the population. Also, it appeared that the population
did not expect benefits from consulting the existing curative services because the
perceived quality of the service provided was poor. As a result of these factors,
consultation rates for curative health services were very low.



5
2.7   Government health policies began to change in the early 1990s. The Human
Resources Development Program (HRDP, 1991-1994) was intended by the Government
to reverse the unfavorable trends in human resources development which threatened to
compromise the country's efforts for human development. The Memorandum of the
President on the operation articulated the principal goal as "increasing the quality of
service delivery, while broadening the coverage at the primary levels in education and
health and offering more demand-driven training opportunities". The envisioned goals
required basic changes in the Ivorian civil service that failed to be fully institutionalized,
not to mention internalized among the staff. These goals could hardly be achieved in one
adjustment operation, since they represent the development task of a generation or more.
2.8   Despite its over-ambitious character, under the HRDP the Government made
progress on a series of health issues, including pharmaceuticals, the first elements of a
strategy based on primary care, decentralization and region-level management, and cost
recovery. Cost recovery was an important achievement: Since October 1994, public
sector primary care facilities have been allowed fully to recover the cost of medicines
and the non-salary cost of curative medical interventions. In rural areas, health facilities
retain 90 percent of these revenues, and in urban areas 65 percent, in blocked accounts at
the local level to replenish drugs used in public sector facilities, and for locally
determined operating and maintenance costs.
B. HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING
2.9   In 1990, health expenditures in Cote d'Ivoire had about half of their sources in
the public sector and half in the private sector3. More recent household survey data
suggest that as much as 60 percent of health spending, or even more, may be private.
However, much more is known about public spending than about private spending.
Public spending on health was one of the major focal points of the HRDP. The
Implementation Completion Report on the HRDP found continuing distortions in the
allocations of government budgetary resources between primary and preventive health
services functions and tertiary services functions.4
2.10 In 1994, the European Commission carried out a major review of public
expenditures (EU PER) in the health sector. The World Bank and other donors joined in
financing the study.5 The study found: (a) a twenty-five percent decline, from 1992 to
1995 in real per capita recurrent budget allocations, with a need for about 7 billion in
CFA francs to catch up; (b) a lack of expenditure information at the MSP, which makes
it difficult for the MSP to monitor payments and be held accountable for payments to
suppliers it selects; (c) a need to strengthen budget procedures and analyses at the MSP;
3Better Health in Africa, World Bank, 1994.
4World Bank Report No.14841, June 29, 1995.
5 Republique de CBte d'Ivoire, Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales, Examen des
D6venses Publiaues dans le Secteur de la Sante6 ASDES Consultant, septembre 1995.



6
(d) rising cost recovery receipts, with a need to ensure that they do not lead to reduction
in public budget allocations for health; (e) a need to strengthen human resource planning,
and to take action to respond with creative support for private assignments as an
alternative to the emerging unemployment of medical graduates who cannot be absorbed
by the public sector; and (f) a need to update norms for spending and health inputs
established for the HRDP, and to use them for monitoring. Pursuit of the agenda of
issues from the HRDP and the public expenditure review will continue under the
proposed Project and the Government's sectoral program.  The Government is
determined to exploit the recommendations of the study, and the proposed Project
provides funds for this.
2.11  The MSP Budget.  Starting with the HRDP and then in connection with
successive Policy Framework Papers and the preparation of the proposed Project, the
Ivorian authorities and the Bank have had frequent discussions on the MSP budget. With
the Bank's encouragement, in 1994 and 1996 supplemental budget allocations were made
for health services, largely at the primary care level. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that, by October 1 of each year, annual consultations will be held on MSP
budget plans in respect of the forthcoming calendar year, and on execution in respect of
the current calendar year; these reviews will encompass counterpart funds required for
the proposed Project and the investment and recurrent funds required for approved
district health development plans. The annual Policy Framework Paper will provide an
opportunity to review the MSP budget in its macroeconomic context.
2.12  Private spending.  Private spending on health services is much less well
understood than public spending. According to household survey data, in 1993 and 1995
it amounted to $12 and $14 per capita. These figures compare with an estimate of $17 in
19906. (Annex 16 gives further information on household survey results.) Since private
spending constitutes such a substantial share of total health expenditures, it is surprising
that so little is known about it; this is one consequence of the intellectual heritage of the
provident state and the orientation of public policy towards the supply of public sector
health services. Under its emerging strategy, the Government expects to devote more
attention than in the past to demand variables.
2.13 National health accounts. Data weaknesses and lack of analytical capacity and
determination mean that the MSP has yet to address the interactions of Government,
donor and household spending on health. However, the preparation of the proposed
Project has led officials to become increasingly aware of the problem, and an initial set
of national health accounts is to be prepared as part of the planning and management
component of the proposed Project.  The emphasis will be less on intellectual
sophistication than on providing a practical tool to the MSP, and on strengthening its
capacity to use it through training and staffing changes.
6Better Health in Africa, The World Bank, 1994.



7
2.14 Health insurance. Publicly sponsored health insurance is provided for public
sector employees, and the private sector has the beginnings of what could become an
active private health insurance market. About 7 percent of the Ivorian population is
covered by a private voluntary health insurance program. In 1994 and 1995, a
governmental Commission on Social Security made proposals for the establishment of a
publicly sponsored mutual insurance scheme oriented towards financing of universally
available primary care. While the Commission envisaged a Government guarantee, the
Government has wisely decided that whatever scheme is ultimately established will have
to be entirely self-financing and without public guarantee. Under the proposed Project,
the Government will prepare and introduce pilot mutual insurance at the district level,
and consultant studies will examine the circumstances under which complementary
private insurance, largely for tertiary care, could be expanded; a detailed work plan for
these studies is now in preparation.
C. DONOR ASSISTANCE
1. Previous Bank Operations in the Sector and Lessons Learned
2.15 Health and Demographic Proiect: The Implementation Completion Report finds
that the principal lessons learned from this project (Ln 2619-IVC) are:
(a)   Project scope and content should be coherent and support an agreed sector
strategy and program that is based on a consensus and agreed among the different
ministries concerned;
(b)   Agreement should be reached up-front on performance indicators, and be
reviewed through Project launch workshops, annual programming exercises, and a mid-
term assessment;
(c)   Project management arrangement should be agreed, including staffing
commitments and roles of key technical units;
(d)   Bank missions should be more frequent, with skill mix tailored to the
technical and management requirement of the project; the Bank may want to consider
delegation of certain tasks to the Regional Mission; and
(e)   The Bank may want to consider a shorter time-frame for future Projects,
with phased implementation based on an agreed work program; some dovetailing of
projects will reduce staff losses and reduce the risks of financing gaps.



8
2.16 Human Resources Development Program: The Implementation Completion
Report7 finds that the principal lessons learned from this adjustment operation (Ln. 3428-
IVC, and Credits 2323-0, 2323-1, and 2323-2-IVC) are:
(a)   The importance of macroeonomic/sectoral links and balance;
(b)   The extreme difficulty of operationalizing budget understandings; a good
dialogue may be more important than formal conditions;
(c)   Close linkage is required between financing and disbursement and
substantial program issues and objectives; the potential irrelevance of adjustment lending
to human resources concerns;
(d)   The importance of appropriate sequencing;
(e)   The importance of not losing sight of poverty and equity concerns, and of
keeping balance in the face of popular trends in development thinking; and
(f)   The critical importance of ownership of the operation by the borrower and
the many borrower agencies concerned.
2.17  The proposed Project reflects directly the importance of the lessons learned from
these operations, in its focus on dialogue with the technical ministry responsible for
health services, its relatively short three-year execution period, its focus on supporting an
agreed sector strategy, and the growing attention to poverty and equity concerns.
2. Other donors
2.18 The African Development Bank, the European Commission, France and Germany
are the major partners of C6te d'Ivoire in the social sectors, together with UN agencies,
such as WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF. Belgium and Canada also support programs in the
health sector, and Japan has made a substantial grant for hospital rehabilitation. USAID
was an active donor to the family planning program but has terminated its assistance to
the largest NGO (AIBEF) operating in this field. The large number of donors active in
the sector, many with a long history of involvement, complicates the coordination task of
the Government.
2.19  In 1990, total donor funding amounted to $11 million, equal to about 3 percent of
total health expenditures; in 1994, it was reported also to be 3 percent - a relatively low
figure by African standards, which estimate donor funding at nearly 20 percent of the
total in 1990. According to estimates in the HRDP Implementation Completion Report,
social priorities (including primary health and education services, and basic water and
sanitation) account for slightly less than 20 percent of donor assistance.
7World Bank Report No. 14841, June 29, 1995.



9
Table 2: Donor Assistance (in US$ million)
_ _ __   1992    1993
Total aid to RCI:           805.0       1,006.0
Of which Health:           9.8         31.6
As % of Total:             1.21         3.14
D. KEY ISSUES
2.20  Two central issues serve as organizing principles for reviewing health services
and programs in C6te d'Ivoire: (a) program management and decentralization, to make a
minimum package of quality health services universally available, for maximum
improvement in health outcomes; and (b) new priorities in reproductive health, nutrition,
and information, education and communication for behavior change.
1. Program Management and Decentralization: Ensuring Universal Access
to Services
2.21  As indicated above, in the years since Independence C6te d'Ivoire has developed
a substantial health infrastructure and trained large numbers of health care personnel.
However, the models of health care that have driven these developments have been
insufficiently adapted to the economic and social realities of the country. Services have
been highly disease-oriented. Neither policy nor resource allocation has focused on
overall health outcomes, nor on the difficult practical issue of providing care to all within
a reasonable period of time. The country has developed an elitist cadre of health
professionals, strongly oriented towards curative care provided by public sector hospitals
located in the urban areas, particularly Abidjan.  Relatively little attention has been
given to public health.
2.22  As in other parts of the Ivorian public sector, the attitudes of MSP staff are
highly centralized and services are under-managed. Centralization has been particularly
problematic in the field of health because of the critical importance of contact and
communication with the beneficiaries of health services. The disconnect between general
statements of policy and the realities of resource allocation and day-to-day activities
reflects the under-management of health services. Monitoring and information systems
have been given little attention, particularly at the implementation stage. Work that was
initiated on them under the Bank-financed Health and Demographic Project was delayed
and unfortunately not completed before closure of the Loan. The MSP has become
increasingly aware of these problems, and is determined to move forward with new
information systems, for epidemiological surveillance, health system planning, and
health system management. It has taken initial steps towards deconcentration of public
sector health services, with the initiative to present budget data on a regional basis; but,
meaningful decentralization to the country's health districts of financial and personnel
authority remains a lofty and largely unrealized ideal. Furthermore, decentralization
concerns not only the MSP but even more importantly the Ministry of Finance and the



10
Ministry of the Civil Service, for the latter ministries hold most of the effective power
over financial and personnel decisions. The information base in the MSP is weak on
financial and personnel matters. The emergence of substantial receipts from medical
consultations, starting in 1994, offers the possibility of reopening the issue of financial
information and responsibility. The first step is for the MSP to master the information
and tools that it now has available. The proposed Project will assist in this task.
2. New Priorities: Reproductive Health, Nutrition, IEC, and Partnerships
with Non-Governmental Partners
2.23  Thanks in part to the consciousness-raising impact of recent major international
conferences, such as the 1992 International Conference on Nutrition (ICN), the 1994
Cairo Conference on Population and Development, and the 1995 Beijing Conference on
Women, the Ivorian health authorities are becoming increasingly aware of the
importance of reproductive health, nutrition, and information, education and
communication programs for health-related behavior change. The evolving visions of
the role of the state, emerging internationally as well as in C6te d'Ivoire under its
structural adjustment program, have led Ivorian health policy makers also to give
increasing attention to new partnerships for better health with the Government's non-
governmental partners.
2.24  The significance of the country's 3.8 percent annual population growth rate is
beginning to penetrate the thinking and actions of policymakers, due in part to analyses
of the census data collected under the Bank-financed Health and Demographic Project.
Family planning programs have thus far only been financed by USAID and the
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), though new assistance from
Germany is expected shortly as USAID phases out its assistance in the country. Cote
d'Ivoire has the highest reported levels of HIV seropositivity in West Africa. As in
many other countries, however, the willingness to confront a disease that is transmitted
by behavior widely viewed as socially unacceptable has been limited among opinion
leaders. The Cairo Conference led the authorities to prepare a voluminous report, and
has contributed to an atmosphere legitimizing discussion of reproductive health. The
MSP has for some years had programs of cooperation with the local affiliate of IPPF and
- more recently - with an internationally backed local private voluntary organization
which provides anonymous AIDS testing. It is now working on the preparation of a
broader program of cooperation which will include financial support to purely local
NGOs and community associations to expand health services, particularly for hard-to-
reach target populations. The most recently published surveys place protein-calorie
malnutrition at 20 percent in urban areas and 28 percent in rural zones. A National
Commission on Food and Nutrition is preparing a long-term strategy for food security, in
pursuit of the understandings reached at the ICN, but operational activity does not yet
exist and the MSP is notably weak in its human resources assigned to nutrition. IEC has
existed, as a health activity, in Cote d'Ivoire, for many years, but has been given little
priority in a highly medicalized health environment. Thus what is needed now is renewal



11
and expansion, with particular focus on clarifying responsibilities, defining baseline
behavior and measuring and monitoring change.
3. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. SECTOR STRATEGY REVIEW FOR THE CONSULTATIVE GROUP
3.1   Following the devaluation of the CFA franc and in preparation for the June 1995
meeting of the Consultative Group for Cote d'Ivoire, the Government undertook a major
review of its health strategies. The Government health strategy statement prepared for
the Consultative Group found that, despite improvements under the HRDP, the sector
continues to suffer from the absence of planning, weaknesses in programming and
budgeting, and the inability to manage its personnel. Budgeting was considered to be
limited in its scope, and supervision of budget execution insufficient. Norms for services
were found to be lacking, despite the importance given to this subject under the HRDP.
Poor information management made budget monitoring deficient, and bureaucratic
inertia made execution of budgets in the interior particularly difficult. Personnel are, the
statement finds, poorly motivated and poorly distributed in the country.   A
disequilibrium was noted between curative and preventive services. The Govermnent
strategy document found three major problems: (a) poor access to care; (b) inadequate
adaptation of services to the expectations of beneficiaries; and (c) the limited credibility
of modern medicine by comparison with traditional practices.
3.2   The Government's Consultative Group health strategy statement fixes the
following principal sectoral objectives: reducing morbidity and mortality (including
infant and child mortality); maternal mortality; eradication or control of infectious and
parasitic diseases, both old (malaria, TB, etc.) and new (HIV); and reduction in
nutritional weaknesses (particularly iodine and vitamin A). Additional objectives include
managing population growth at the family and national level, and improving the internal
and external efficiency of the health and social system. To achieve efficiency gains, the
Government states that it proposes to organize health care on the basis of a minimum
package of health services (PMA), to reform initial and in-service training programs, to
facilitate establishment of recent graduates in private medical practice, and to finalize the
information system initiated under the Health and Demographic Project. To consolidate
progress under the HRDP, the Government proposes to pursue rehabilitation and
maintenance of health infrastructure, increase the availability of and access to essential
drugs by actions in the public and private sectors, institute a real deconcentration of
services, strengthen the economic and financial management of the health system,
promote effective community participation in the management of health services,
strengthen service quality, reinforce coverage, and create a system of health insurance.
3.3   At the Consultative Group general support was expressed for the Government's
strategy statement, and the Government was encouraged to move forward and make it
increasingly operational. Since that time the Government has been giving increasing



12
attention to donor coordination in the health sector. Meetings of donors chaired by the
Minister of Public Health are held approximately every three months, and informal sub-
sectoral consultations are held as needed. In June 1996, the MSP will hold a health
sector round table meeting in Abidjan, as part of the agreed follow-up on the
Consultative Group. The Government's health policy letter (Annex 2) follows closely
the Government's planned presentation to the round table of its ten year National Health
Development Plan.
3.4   The tendency of donor funding to follow donor rather than Government priorities,
to concentrate on technical assistance, and not to be fully integrated into Government
accounting has made managing donor relations a particularly difficult task in the health
sector. The MSP has become increasingly sensitive to this problem over the past several
years, and expects to take the initiative to address it in connection with the round table.
A first step will be to establish a reasonable data base. The annual reviews of the sector
program which the MSP expects to undertaken with its financiers will help to strengthen
donor coordination. Thus, the round table should be seen as but one step in a larger and
longer process of gradual integration of donor funding into an increasingly complete
sector investment and development program. The proposed Project is a step in this
direction. Donors have been engaged in the dialogue during its preparation, and the
Government expects them gradually to join in financing a broad sectoral program with
common national service norms.
3.5   The MSP public investment program for 1995-1997 set out in the Consultative
Group document is sound in concept, but over-ambitious in level, at 90 billion CFA
francs (US$180 million). Projects in execution amount to 33 billion CFA francs, and
new projects amount to 57 billion CFA francs. Most of the new projects in the
Consultative Group paper require a substantial amount of additional preparatory work,
and the absorptive capacity of the country for a program of the size presented to the
Consultative Group needs strengthening. Despite its sound thrust, the public investment
program in the health sector requires further analytical work, to ensure consistency
between the Government's strategy, stated priorities and proposed investments, and
among the PIP, the Consultative Group document, and the government's investment
budget (the BSIE). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the government
will review and update its three year health sector public investment program by the end
of 1996, update it annually thereafter, and execute it taking due account of IDA's
comments.
3.6   Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted a draft health policy letter to
the Association. The draft was discussed during negotiations. Previous to Board
presentation, the Government approved and submitted the signed health policy letter to
the Association. The letter (Annex 2) presents a general, long term vision of health and
health services in Cote d'Ivoire. Pursuing themes in its presentation to the Consultative
Group, the policy letter underscores the following strategies: (a) promotion of primary
care based on a minimum package of health services (PMA); (b) promotion of a multi-
sectoral approach and partnerships with actors outside the MSP; (c) improvement in



13
financial and geographic access to health services; (d) improvement in management of
the health system; (e) development and optimal utilization of. health sector human
resources; and (f) promotion of research. These themes are at the core of the Project
appraised in this report and create a foundation for the evolution of the Ivorian health
system from a relatively high cost model based on public sector urban hospitals with low
access and utilization of services, to a relatively low cost system based on a minimum
package of services provided through public and non-governmental primary care health
centers and first referral hospitals that are widely accessible and used because they are
responsive to the expectations of beneficiaries.
B. MANAGING CHANGE: THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF ACTION RESEARCH,
STUDIES, TRAINING AND PILOT PROJECTS
3.7   Following a strategic management retreat in November 1994, the MSP began, in
February 1995, to establish an overall program of action research, studies, training and
pilot projects. This program aims to prepare the Ministry for the future, and to pave the
way for future financing decisions; thus it has been called a Programme Preparatoire au
Financement by MSP staff. Many of these activities existed previously, but they had not
been brought together and subjected to review or support. A Coordinator has been
designated in the Minister's Cabinet, and the various departments and services have
submitted action research, study, training and pilot project proposals for review and
integration into a coherent whole. A planning and programming tool for the Ministry has
emerged. It is expected, over time, to aid in planning and determination of priorities, and
to facilitate knowledge-based decision-making.
3.8   The action research and studies program represents the foundation for the
institutional development components of the proposed Project. Overall, it will help the
MSP to manage change proactively, and contribute to the formulation and execution of a
fully integrated sectoral program. Thus, the MSP will be able to cease responding
passively to externally driven initiatives and disabling environmental factors and take the
initiative for change. The total cost of the action research and studies program is
estimated at over $4 million. Its financing includes funding from the Bank's PPF
advance, an equivalent Japanese grant, the IDA Credit recommended in this report, and
possible support from the European Commission and other donors. Initial experience
with the program has given the senior management of the MSP new insights into the
strengths and weaknesses of the staff, and has made the need for methodological
guidance to local researchers clear. Thus, before the end of 1996, the MSP will appoint a
Sous-Directeur of Applied Research. If delays hamper the program during Project
execution, the MSP will recruit a research administrator. Furthermore, over time the
Ministry will increasingly use the action research program proactively to manage
research and study proposals with substantial policy implications, while encouraging line
managers to pursue operational research that supports their daily activities without being
encumbered by the requirements for policy coordination under the action research
program.



14
4. THE INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.1   The objectives of the proposed Integrated Health Services Development Project,
within the framework of the Government's National Health Development Plan, are to (a)
expand access to health services and improve their utilization; (b) make health services
available on a sustainable basis; and (c) improve the ability of the MSP to analyze health
problems, and to formulate, monitor and evaluate policies, strategies and programs. The
Project seeks to establish the foundation for universal availability of cost-effective,
technically and culturally appropriate health services that are affordable and sustainable
to the people and country as a whole, by expanding service delivery for a minimum
package of health care and reproductive health services, and by expanding MSP capacity
at the headquarters level. The Project represents the first, three-year phase of a process,
already initiated by the MSP with the establishment of an initial set of studies and pilot
projects and PPF support, which is expected to lead to a fully integrated sector
development and expenditure program. The Project is fundamentally an institutional
development program, with emphasis on making change in service delivery oriented
towards priority target populations. It is a key element of the Government's National
Health Development Plan (PNDS).
4.2   The Project aims to strengthen MSP services at two levels:
(a) at the service delivery level, particularly at the periphery, through a minimum
package of health services (PMA, in its French acronym, for Paquet Minimum
d'Activites) to be provided by health districts, complemented by strengthened or new
national programs in the new priorities discussed above - reproductive health,
information, education and communication for behavior change, and partnerships with
non-governmental partners. The definition, costing, financing, and introduction of the
PMA in an initial series of health districts is the central operational objective of the
project. Financing of PMA introduction at the local level will be driven by requests from
health districts formulated as district health development plans. Success with the PMA
implies not only delivery of quality health care services but also the availability and
financial accessibility of a limited number of essential drugs and acceptable levels of
utilization by beneficiaries. Effective PMA introduction will be a long and demanding
process, taking a number of years to reach the entire population. For this reason,
providing family planning services solely in association with PMA introduction risks
delaying the country's new priorities; reproductive health services will, for a period, be
introduced not only in districts benefiting from PMA support to health development
plans but also separately in other public sector health clinics where they are not yet
available.



15
(b) at the manazement level (headquarters, regions, and departments or districts)
by supporting the long-term institution-building program of action research, studies,
training and pilot projects described above. At the MSP headquarters level, the central
objective of the Project is execution and effective follow-up on an institutional
assessment of the organization, including strengthening of its informatics capacity.
Execution of the assessment started in May 1995 with PPF support. Three years of
experience with management and coordination of the MSP program of studies, training
and pilot activities are expected to strengthen the Ministry's capacity for strategic
management. A gradual change in perspective in the Ministry is expected, with
increasing attention to demand variables and beneficiary perspectives. Private voluntary
providers and community associations will be engaged to the maximum feasible extent,
but the Project does not addresses the changes that will be required in the long term
among the country's very conservative private-for-profit health care providers. Over the
three year period of Project execution, the groundwork will be laid for a substantial
increase in voluntary private insurance, to complement the planned mutual insurance
program, and for the gradual reallocation of priority in public sector financial and human
resources from the tertiary to the primary and secondary levels.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. The Minimum Package (PMA) ($16.4m)
4.3   The idea of a minimum package of health services (PMA), strongly promoted in
VW'DR93 and BHA, is welcome in Cote d'Ivoire. The most cost-effective health services
are already included in the Government's health programs, but they do not receive the
financial support, human resources and other priorities required to ensure quality services
and full utilization of existing infrastructure. The technical work on the definition of a
core set of services which will receive priority in the allocation of public financial and
human resources has been completed. An MSP working group prepared initial proposals
for the contents of the PMA in March and April 1995, with suggestions that it be
delivered by health centers and district hospitals. As refined in January, 1996, the list of
services (Annex 6) includes: maternal care, delivery, post-natal care; well-baby care,
including immunizations; family planning; limited curative care (malaria, STDs, acute
respiratory infections, diarrhea); limited chronic care (TB, leprosy, dracunculiasis, yaws);
and promotional services (nutrition, water supply and sanitation).
4.4   The PMA will be made operational through preparation and implementation of a
series of district health development plans. These plans will specify infrastructure
rehabilitation, re-equipment, and - where necessary - new construction for district
headquarters, first referral hospitals (h6pitaux generaux), and health centers; refresher
and on-the-job training; disease surveillance and reporting; IEC; recapitalization of drug
stocks where necessary; tools for planning and monitoring; links to other services (such
as water supply and sanitation) which have a bearing on health outcomes, and links to
higher levels of the health care system. Districts will have to meet certain eligibility



16
requirements for access to public financial resources to implement their plans; incentives
for sound performance will be established. The general orientation of the work to be
done at the MSP in support of the PMA will be to respond to community demand rather
than simply to offer new supply. Technical staff in the MSP are to provide support to
health districts in the preparation of their plans, and to advise decision makers at MSP
headquarters on the quality of the plans. The Project will strengthen the DSC to enable it
to support PMA work, especially in rural areas, through provision of equipment, training
in health planning and management, and the provision of consultants' services.
4.5    Over the three year period of execution of the Project, the Government expects to
introduce the PMA in about fourteen of the country's fifty planned health districts.
However, this does not imply that the total population of each district will be reached in
this period, as further time will be required to complete the construction (where
necessary) and rehabilitation of health care facilities and the introduction of the training
and supervision which form an essential part of the PMA. PMA monitoring and
evaluation will be carried out by the health districts under the guidance of the DSC and
with the support of a PMA unit in the Minister's Cabinet. This activity will assume
increasing importance as the PMA is introduced in growing numbers of health districts,
and financial support is provided to the districts by the MSP and donors. Work plans and
informal understandings, in the form of agreed lettres de mission, setting out mutual
expectations, will need to be adopted and monitored; adjustments may be required in
PMA services according to the varying epidemiological conditions and socio-economic
circumstances of different parts of the country. The PMA component of the proposed
Project will not be limited to services provided by public sector health facilities, as it
includes an experimental element of support to services provided by community
associations, local authorities, and NGOs (see para 5.11); this pilot activity is responsive
to the theme of partnerships with other actors for health improvement in the
Government's letter of health policy. In the interest of establishing and implementing
national standards for health services, the work on PMA policies supported under the
proposed Project will apply throughout the country, rather than solely in the fourteen
districts with plans to be financed by IDA; other interested donors will also be involved
in the PMA work, under the general umbrella of the National Health Development Plan.
4.6   The following criteria will be used in reviewing health district development plans
for financing: (a) criteria addressed to the district team: quality planning, following
national norms and engaging the totality of the health services partners at the district
level, and sustainability, particularly in respect of financing incremental recurrent costs;
(b) criteria addressed to the central authorities: stability in the assignment of personnel,
and training of the district team; (c) criteria addressed to the local authorities:
participation in financing of the district plan, to be negotiated locally; (d) criteria
addressed to the regional directorates: support by the regional directorate concerned. The
adequacy of poverty focus and the extent of beneficiary participation will be considered,
particularly after Cote d'Ivoire has established planning tools permitting classification of
districts by level of poverty.  See Annex 7.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, before effectiveness of the Credit, the Government will issue and



17
distribute a circulaire satisfactory to IDA outlining the format, contents, procedures, and
eligibility criteria for financing of district health plans.
2. Reproductive Health: Family Planning and Sexually Transmitted Diseases
($13.5m)
4.7   The reproductive health component will support the development and expansion
of an integrated package of reproductive health (RH) services to be delivered in the
minimum package of activities, as these are developed and extended throughout the
health system, and in those services planned in the National Action Plan for Family
Planning to be carried out by the Government and - under its guidance - by AIBEF, the
Ivoirian affiliate of a well-known NGO, the International Planned Parenthood
Federation. The Programme National de Planification Familiale (PNPF) will receive
training, vehicles, office equipment, medical supplies and equipment, and consultant
support to strengthen planned programs, address critical needs, and strengthen budding
NGO/government partnerships.
4.8   The Project will finance: (a) establishment, rehabilitation and maintenance of
family planning services in about 100 public sector health centers; (b) construction and
equipment of family services provided by AIBEF in Man, San Pedro, Yamoussoukro,
Odienne, Abengourou, and Bondoukou; and rehabilitation of three AIBEF regional
facilities in Bouake, Daloa, and Korhogo; (c) training, IEC, and studies for strengthening
of family planning management; and (d) IEC, training, and other intervention programs
to combat STDs/AIDS, and training and institutional support, including epidemiological
surveillance, for development of the national AIDS prevention and control program.
4.9   Many components of the family planning and AIDS programs - such as
contraceptive supply and IEC - have common needs that can be met in an integrated
fashion by expanding current and planned FP services into a more integrated package of
basic RH services. Where the PMA is being tested and later introduced across the health
system, RH services will be provided in those service sites. Sites identified for RH
service delivery will be equipped, and staffed to deliver STD screening and treatment,
HIV screening and referral, and family planning services in recognition of the
seriousness of the STD and HIV/AIDS epidemic. Basic hygiene in health services (by
providing expendable and non-expendable disinfectants), and supplies of syringes and
needles and other necessary items will be assured to PMA and RH service sites. The
National FP program will be strengthened through training and consultant support to
permit it to grow into its role of strategizing, planning, coordinating and monitoring the
national RH/FP effort, and to develop and manage an active IEC program in support of
program activities.
4.10  For the control of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, the Project will
finance: (i) training in program management and coordination for the staff of the
National AIDS Control program in Abidjan and the regions, to lead to a decentralized
and well coordinated program; (ii) training in care and management of people infected



18
and affected by the epidemic for health care providers and managers responsible for STD
services; (iii) medical supplies (reagents, drugs and condoms) and equipment for HIV,
STDs and TB; and (iv) consultant support to strengthen their planned programs, address
critical needs, and strengthen partnerships with cooperating bodies in the public and non-
governmental sectors. The AIDS component of the Project is relatively small, at $3
million, as the central coordination office for AIDS needs to build up its capacity before
a larger program is undertaken.
4.11  A substantial amount of non-resident consultant assistance will be needed to
support execution of the National Family Planning Program. Because of management
changes, reevaluation of these requirements is required, and high level family planning
program consultant support is being obtained. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that, by the end of 1996, the Executive Directorate for Reproductive Health and
Family Planning would establish a work program defining the overall technical support
required by the family planning program and provide it to IDA for review and approval.
To support improved treatment of STDs, agreement was reached, during negotiations,
that by the middle of 1997 national guidelines will be established for syndromic
diagnosis and treatment of STDs, to be consistent with the work now being completed on
review and validation of treatment algorithms for other diseases.
3. Planning and Management ($12.3 m)
4.12  This component of the Project will finance a wide range of studies, pilot
activities, office equipment and supplies aimed at supporting the National Health
Development Program (PNDS), including: (a) an institutional assessment and
organization development program for the MSP; (b) continuation and deepening of the
action-research and studies program of the MSP initiated with PPF support; (c)
strengthening of decentralized financial management of MSP services by training and
supervisory visits at the service delivery level; (d) strengthening of partnerships with
communities, community associations and health NGOs, through workshops, seminars,
and training; (e) training, equipping, staffing, and operation of 7 MSP regional
Directorates in Bondoukou, Bouake, Odienne, Korhogo, Yamoussoukro, and the South (I
and II, outside of Abidjan); (f) revision of treatment algorithms initiated by the
Pharmaceuticals Directorate (DMP) of the MSP and publication of a catalogue of
medicinal equivalents and a newsletter; (g) introduction of revised prescription practices
through training of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and private drug sellers; (h)
strengthening of quality control of medicines by providing equipment and training to the
DMP, the Pharmacy Faculty, and the National Quality Control Laboratory; (i)
preparation and introduction of a reform of the curriculum for medical and paramedical
studies, to be consistent with the PMA, including training at the community level; (j)
computer support and consultant services to strengthen the Directorate of Human
Resources (DRH) in the MSP and update strategies for planning of recruitment and
training; (j) introduction into the action-research program of follow-up on the 1995
review of health sector public expenditures carried out by the MSP and the European
Commission; and (k) studies on mutual insurance for primary care and expansion of



19
complementary private insurance, and establishment, on a pilot basis, of primary care
mutual insurance in two health districts.
4.13  In anticipation of new needs, the MSP started the institutional assessment in May-
June 1995 with PPF support and facilitating assistance of consultants. Further missions
and a workshop with MSP stakeholders to review initial results took place in late 1995
and early 1996; a work program has been prepared. The assessment is examining the
capacities of the Ministry at the national level, in an environment of decentralization.
Gaps are being identified between current realities and models for the future. Over time,
new definitions of the role(s) of the MSP need to be worked out as part of the MSP
development program, and new links to non-governmental providers created, as the
Ministry gradually reduces its role in the management and financing of the country's
major public sector tertiary and university hospitals.
4. Information and Health ($7.8 m)
4.14  This component of the Project will consist of: (a) establishment of a national
system for epidemiological surveillance; (b) development and operation of a continuing
program of beneficiary assessment (Observatoire des Bdineficieres); (c) development and
application of a national policy for health IEC and operation of IEC interventions to
promote healthy behavior; (d) improved functioning of the MSP Management
Information System (SIG) and its increased use in decision-making; and (e) development
and use of a planning tool called health mapping (carte sanitaire).
4.15  The centerpiece of this component is the further pursuit of the Management
Information System initiated under the Bank-financed Health and Demographic Project.
The MIS managed by the MSP Department of Control, Evaluation and Health
Information (DCEIS) is to be computerized, and an annual report on health is to be
produced. A significant new element is regular beneficiary feedback on health services,
both locally and on a national level. Baseline data are now being collected. The
permanent beneficiary monitoring system will provide information on demand for and
satisfaction with the health services provided by the Ministry. This system will use both
quantitative and qualitative methods to determine the health demands of local
communities, the decision-making process followed by households in choosing health
care providers, obstacles to increased utilization of Government services, and ways
public sector primary care providers can meet community demand. These data will
complement and deepen the information (see Annex 16) available from the 1995
household surveys carried out by the INS and the client consultations sponsored by the
Bank over the past several years as part of Project preparation (see Annex 15).
4.16 Human and financial resource management systems require updating and
decentralization from the core agencies of finance and civil service to the sectoral
agencies, and ultimately to the health districts. Before this can be done, information
systems and the data base will be updated. Work in this area has been initiated under the



20
Human Resources Management Project which accompanied the Human Resources
Development Program.
4.17  The information and health component will provide a substantial strengthening of
information, education and communication (IEC) capacity for health in Cote d'Ivoire.
IEC activities have been in existence in the RCI in some form for over 30 years. They
were fragmented in terms of program design and management, emphasized mass media
which reached more of the elite than populations most at risk, were not sustained, and
little effort was made to evaluate impact. Nonetheless, both within and outside the public
sector there are sociologists, anthropologists, and communications experts who have IEC
experience, especially in social marketing. In January 1995, a national IEC/Population
network was created (Reseau IEC/Population). In April 1995, a workshop (Atelier de
Reflexion IEC) was held to engage the principal actors in a process of defining a national
IEC policy, the main lines of intervention, and mechanisms for coordination. Work on
the policy has been nearly completed, and the Project will support institutional
strengthening for health IEC and the execution of IEC programs in priority areas,
including especially family planning and AIDS. The MSP IEC staff will serve as a
coordinating body, and support IEC programs of others. IEC interventions are to be
designed and funded with IDA support, and the new national health IEC service will be
equipped and receive training for its new role. The annual project work program review
will encompass the detailed plans for preparation, review, execution, and monitoring of
IEC interventions over the year ahead.
Project Management ($1.2m)
4.18  Project management costs involve support for the Project coordination unit in the
Minister's Cabinet. In addition to incremental contractual staff such as the Project
accountant, Project management costs include annual audits of Project accounts and
SOEs, consultant assistance for the comprehensive review planned at the end of 1998,
office equipment and supplies, brief study tours to neighboring countries by staff of the
Project coordination unit, and annual work program preparation and review workshops
with the main actors involved in Project execution.
C. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND FISCAL IMPACT
4.19  The economic justification and analyses undertaken as part of project appraisal
(see Annex 18) concentrated on the cost-effectiveness of PMA interventions and the
fiscal impact of universal access to health care through PMA services. Because of the
time and cost involved, and because of the broadly similar epidemiological and socio-
economic conditions among African countries, no independent cost effectiveness or cost-
utility studies were undertaken. However, as detailed in Annex 18, the C6te d'lvoire
PMA interventions were compared with minimum packages in other African countries
where detailed studies have been made, including Guinea and Kenya. Broadly speaking,
the most cost-effective interventions are included in the C6te d'Ivoire PMA. The
comparisons suggest that Cote d'Ivoire will need to: (a) give increasing attention, in



21
resource allocation from public budgets, to interventions for better health provided
outside the health sector; (b) resist pressures to expand the scope of the interventions
provided under the PMA; and (c) contain the cost of PMA services.
4.20 A health services program based on the PMA is both affordable and financeable
in COte d'Ivoire. In the long term, households are projected to bear a substantial share -
over 50 percent - of the cost, through cost recovery, but can do so by reallocating a
portion of their existing health expenditures and without increasing the share of their
expenditures now devoted to health. While fees vary now according to the nature of the
service, schemes to moderate the impact of cost recovery on the poor and target
populations will be needed; indigents are formally exempt already. The responsibility
for determining and financing exemptions to the universal cost recovery rules lies at the
commune level.
4.21  To review the fiscal impact of the Project, projections were made of the
implications of providing universal coverage of the population under the PMA and of
providing universal coverage under the present, hospital-oriented health care services.
With universal coverage of the population under the PMA, and specialized tertiary care
provided on a referral basis, the MSP is projected in fifteen years annually to require
CFA francs 125 billion (1996 CFA francs) for health services. Universal coverage under
the present, hospital-based pattern of health services is projected to require Government
health expenditures of CFA francs 201 billion. In fifteen years projected resources
available annually for Government financing of health services are CFA francs 176
billion under the Bank's standard economic growth scenario, on the assumption that
historical budget shares are not changed. The Government's MSP budget projections
through 1999 are consistent with the goal of achieving universal PMA coverage in ten
years. Thus universal coverage is projected to be fiscally affordable under the PMA, as
long as its cost is contained, but not under the present pattern of health services. Because
of the sensitivity of this analysis to the PMA cost, it is important to develop refined cost
estimates; this work is now underway with MSP sponsorship.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
4.22  The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$52 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$23.3 million equivalent to 45 percent of total project costs.
Base costs are estimated on the basis of March 1996 CFA francs and an exchange rate of
USI = CFA francs 500. Physical contingencies amount to 10 percent on civil works and
goods. Price contingencies have been calculated at 2.4 percent per annum for foreign
costs during the entire Project execution period and for local costs at 3.8 percent for
1997, and 2.6 for 1998 and 1999. Summary tables of cost estimates by component are in
Annex 19.
4.23  The proposed IDA credit will be US$40 million equivalent, representing 77
percent of total cost.  Domestic counterpart financing will be of US$12 million



22
equivalent, or 23 percent of total costs and will be made up of US$11.8 million from
Government allocations and $200,000 from beneficiaries.
Table 3: Summary of Project Cost by Component
(in US$ million, including contingencies)
% Foreign  % of total
Component                       Foreign      Local       Total    exchange       cost
1. District Health Services: PMA   8.6         7.8        16.4        52          32
11. Reproductive Health: FP/STD    7.1         6.4        13.5        53          26
III. Planning and Management       4.2         8.0        12.3        34          24
IV. Information and Health         2.9         4.9        7.8         37          15
V. Project Management              0.4         0.8         1.2        33          2
VI. Project Preparation Facility   0.0         0.8        0.8         0           1
Total                         23.3        28.7        52.0        45         100
Table 4: Summary of Financing Plan by Expenditure Category
(in US$ million, including contingencies)
Expenditure Category                                                          IDA as %
(PPF included)                     IDA    Governmen  Beneficiaries   Total    of total
t
1 . Civil Works                    5.8         2.5                     8.3        70
2. Goods                           14.3        4.7                    19.0        75
3. Consulting Services and Studies  7.3        1.4                     8.7        84
4. Training                        4.5         0.5                     5.0        90
4. Services of Comnunity Org.      2.5          0                      2.5       100
5. Operating Costs a/              5.6         2.7          0.2        8.5        66
Total                       40.0       11.8         0.2        52.0       77
a/ Excluding drugs (all drugs are included under Goods).
4.24   Operating Costs during Project Execution. Execution of the Project would
include operating costs estimated at about US$11.5 million equivalent ($8.5 million
excluding drugs), or 21.2 percent of total Project cost over a three year period. Of this
amount, US$2.8 million would finance the pay of contractual staff to be hired for the
execution of the Project, including a training and development team for the PMA and
other staff for Project management.  To operate facilities strengthened by Project
investments, these costs include purchases of drugs and other medical consumables,
representing about US$3.0 million, after the initial purchase to recapitalize stocks of
district health facilities under their health development plans. Operating costs would also
include expenditures for supervision and financial management of the Project, and for
maintenance of facilities, vehicles and equipment, totaling about US$5.7 million during
Project execution.



23
expenditures for full expansion of PMA services to all health districts and universal
coverage of the population, and their implications for the national budget and the
Government's resource allocation to the sector. (See economic justification and fiscal
impact, and Annex 18).
4.26 Absorption of Contractual Staff. The institutional assessment now being
performed with the MSP, and other institutional development activities carried out under
the Project, will generate new MSP skills requirements and profiles, needed to carry out
the health programs being developed. Upon completion of Project implementation and
subject to any overall civil service staffing and reform plans, incremental contractual
staff hired initially for Project execution may be absorbed by the MSP on the basis of
their skills and performance and of the newly defined skills profiles and assessed needs;
however, the MSP can offer no guarantees and will have to examine the situation
carefully upon Project completion. Over time it is expected that new skills will replace
those of others who should be more directly engaged in service delivery, but - because
new staff can be more easily recruited than older staff retrained, reassigned, and/or
retired - making change in the global skills profile of the Ministry may initially lead to
see some expansion at the headquarters level. A list of contractual staff expected to be
hired during Project execution is available in Annex 20C.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
5.1   The various components of the Project are at different stages of preparation, but
are generally well advanced and in some cases already in execution. A PPF advance was
granted by IDA in March, 1995, and a grant from the Government of Japan to support
Project preparation was approved in July, 1995. Prior to Board presentation, the
Government has approved and signed an arrete on the establishment, organization and
operation of the Project management services.
5.2   Work on the PMA is advancing steadily, under the direction of the Minister's
Cabinet. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the MSP will maintain a
PMA unit in the Minister's Cabinet, consisting of at least two public health specialists
and a health economist, to support health districts, under the PMA, family planning and
AIDS programs, and to provide support and advice to the DSC and health districts.
Arretes on the organization and operation of the health districts and on the Project
management services will be published in the Journal Officiel before Credit
effectiveness. While still essentially a pilot program under the larger PMA component,
the small NGO and community organization sub-component requires additional
preparation, with support from international staff to complement the work now under
way by local consultants. NGOs in Cote d'Ivoire are recognized by individual decree
when they are found to be of public value; such decrees are managed by the Ministry of
the Interior and approved by the Council of Ministers. Assurances were obtained during



24
negotiations that, before disbursements are made for the services of community groups
beyond the initial experimental services under the PPF, a Conseiller technique in the
Minister's Cabinet will be assigned responsibility for relations with community
organizations, under TOR acceptable to the Association, and a framework for MSP
cooperation with community groups acceptable to IDA will be adopted, including
criteria, policies and processes for evaluating and financing their services; essentially, the
NGOs should operate as contractors.  The Conseiller technique will be assisted by a
sociologist and a specialist from the community movement. The procedures manual for
this component will specify that, at least initially, all project-financed services by
community groups will be subject to prior Bank approval.
5.3   The reproductive health components are well advanced in preparation. Execution
of the national family planning program has already begun. As envisaged under the 1996
reorganization of the MSP, the final management structure of the family planning
program needs strengthening; Project-financed consultant services will aid in this task.
Assurances were received during negotiations that by the end of 1996 the MSP will
conclude an agreement with AIBEF acceptable to the Association setting out the
arrangements for execution of the component of the project for which AIBEF will be
responsible. The AIDS/STD services component will take somewhat more preparation,
and especially a strengthening of the management of the Executive Directorate
responsible for AIDS, sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis. Assurances were
received during negotiations that the Government will appoint a financial administrator
in each of the Executive Directorates for AIDS and family planning under TOR
satisfactory to IDA.  Furthermore, the Project provides for six person-months of
intensive international consultant support to evaluate problems of management and
administration in the Executive Directorate for HIV/AIDS and assist it to put in place a
management system that will permit it to play its central coordinating role.
5.4   The program of studies, training and pilot activities for the planning and
management and information and health components of the Project was first prepared in
February and March, 1995. Execution is already underway with PPF and Japan Grant
support. A provisional version of the program was formally issued by the MSP in
December 1995, and the program will be periodically updated.
B. MANAGEMENT
5.5   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the following personnel
acceptable to the Bank will be appointed and maintained in place for project purposes
throughout project execution: A Project Coordinator, a Project financial administrator,
and a project accountant, in the Project coordination unit; two public health specialists
and a health economist, in the PMA unit of the Minister's Cabinet, for support to health
districts. The Project Coordinator and Project financial administrator were appointed and
in place prior to negotiations, and the other personnel will be appointed and in place as
a condition of effectiveness. Also prior to negotiations, the Government prepared
proposals for the accountability, staffing and authority (including job descriptions) of the



25
MSP services which will be involved in project execution. The final version of these
proposals will be contained in the Project implementation manual.
5.6   Project execution will be integrated to the maximum possible extent into the daily
activities of the responsible operating services of the MSP, and the office of the Project
Coordinator will not be a Project implementation unit. The major service delivery
activities will be carried out outside the central Ministry, by health districts and non-
governmental health care providers. Work plans will be prepared and approved for the
project-financed activities; contracts will also be concluded with non-governmental
service providers. An exanple of an MSP-NGO contract already exists governing the
cooperation between the MSP and the Ivorian affiliate of the International Planned
Parenthood Federation, AIBEF. Beyond these arrangements, a number of MSP units,
and other Ministries, will inevitably be involved in Project execution, particularly in
Project administration. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the
establishment and TOR of a Monitoring Committee for the Project; the Committee will
be established under the arret establishing the Project management services adopted as a
condition of Board presentation (see Annex 22).  Prior to negotiations, the
Government completed a draft Project implementation manual acceptable to IDA; its
final version will include the Project accounting manual, performance indicators,
procurement, and a full presentation of the content, cost, rationale, and execution
modalities of each Project component; a manual acceptable to IDA will be adopted as a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.7   An initial study to evaluate the financial management capacity of MSP and the
primary health entities at the periphery has recently been completed. The weak financial
management capacity of MSP and its decentralized subordinate bodies has been
confirmed. Major improvements are necessary to raise the level of financial management
of the health services before autonomy in decision making and cost recovery can be
made to work effectively. Another study, currently in draft, is investigating ways to
expedite the flow of public budget funds to primary providers. However, the studies do
not provide a sufficient basis to move forward with stronger decentralized financial
management across the whole health sector, and further consultant support will be
required. During negotiations assurances were obtained that, by the end of 1997, the
Government will present to IDA an action plan, prepared on the basis of criteria
satisfactory to IDA, defining specific steps to substantially increase the accounting
autonomy and financial management capacity of local public sector health care
providers. Aspects to be covered include their decision-making over cost recovery
receipts and ways of minimizing delays in arrival of public budget funds at the primary
provider level.
5.8   Project preparation was hampered by administrative delays in releasing
counterpart funds for the PPF. Therefore, prior to negotiations, the Ministry of Finance
transferred to an MSP account the remaining counterpart funds for the IDA PPF: 82
million CFA francs. Also, as a condition of effectiveness the Ministry of Finance will
deposit in an MSP Project account funds required for the first four months of Project



26
execution: 315 million CFA francs. The account will be replenished on a quarterly
basis or whenever its balance shall be less than 200 million CFA francs.
5.9   Under the Project, under contract with MSP, AIBEF will operate new family
planning service delivery facilities in six regional capitals, and rehabilitated facilities in
three other regional capitals, construct and operate clinics in Adjame, and at its
headquarters. AIBEF has specialized skills and experience in the field of family
planning not available in the public sector, and receives MSP subsidies for its work. It
will continue to manage the distribution of contraceptives and tracking of contraceptive
supplies and to provide special family planning management information services to
MSP until these activities can be integrated into the regular services of the MSP.
However, it will not own the facilities it operates, which will be constructed or
rehabilitated by the MSP.
5.10  The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000 and the proposed
Credit to be closed by September 30, 2000.
C. THE ROLES OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL AND COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS
5.11  While NGOs have been working in health in C6te d'Ivoire for many years,
NGOs, community associations, and local authorities are not as developed in the field of
health as in many other African countries. In recent years more of these bodies have
started to work on health and sanitation issues, and the general reaction from
beneficiaries has been positive. The MSP has concluded that it is now opportune to
establish closer relationships with such groups working in the health sector to take
advantage of the dynamic relationship between them and their local populations in order
to expand the coverage of basic health services. Thus the PMA component of the
Project contains a pilot sub-component for this purpose.
5.12 The MSP is establishing a focal point for relations with community groups.
Consultants are preparing a framework to structure this cooperation in the future, to
encompass both dialogue between the Ministry and its non-governmental partners on
health policies and strategies and financial support for services to populations that can be
reached more efficiently and effectively through community bodies than MSP services.
Under the Project, qualified NGOs, local authorities, and community associations may
contract with the government to expand their provision of PMA health services to
priority groups. Eligibility criteria will be strictly defined, both as to the types of bodies
that can apply and the types of services that will be funded, including training to
strengthen the management capacity of qualified groups. If the pilot component is
successful, other donors may wish to participate as the demand for funds rises and the
supply of viable community body proposals increases.
5.13  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the MSP will recruit a
sociologist and a specialist originating in the community movement to work in the
Cabinet on the MSP program of cooperation with community groups. This staff will



27
also have administrative responsibility for the experimental services. The team will
establish procedures, prepare necessary information, provide back-up to field offices and
make final decisions on funding requests from groups. During execution of the Project,
offices will also be set up in selected regions as local contact points for community
groups wishing to apply for funding. These offices will be responsible for identifying
community bodies in the health sector, providing them information on funding
possibilities, helping them prepare funding requests and following-up on contracts that
have been awarded. As the component is an experiment, it is expected that only 10-15
groups per year per region will receive funding and that the size of the contracts will be
relatively limited (average size of US$10,000).
D. BENEFICIARIES, TARGET GROUPS, AND PARTICIPATION
5.14 Health equity is a major issue in CMte d'Ivoire. In 1995, the richest quintile of the
population benefited from 31 percent of public spending on health, whereas the poorest
quintile had only 11 percent. The public health subsidy is poorly targeted: The poorest
40 percent of the population received only 29 percent of the public subsidy in 1995,
while the richest quintile received 31 percent. The per capita health subsidy is 34 percent
lower in rural areas than in urban areas. The pattern of hospital care and financing lies
behind this targeting issue; it should also be noted that the per capita subsidy in rural
hospitals is less than one-third that in urban hospitals. Cote d'Ivoire will join in a Bank-
sponsored research project which should help it to target public budget funds more
effectively as a function of poverty and income. Public officials are increasingly aware
of and sensitive to health equity issues but it must be recognized that they are long-term,
fundamental problems in the political economy of health and development in CMte
d'Ivoire.
5.15  The proposed Project aims to create a foundation for universal access to health
services, which would be a great achievement in the fight against poverty in Cote
d'Ivoire. The ultimate beneficiaries of the Project will be concentrated among those who
are relatively less well off. The PMA is designed to reach the entire Ivorian population,
but its core interventions are of greatest interest to the poorer population.  The
Observatoire des Beneficiares will help to make public sector health services more
responsive to the perceived needs of the people, and particularly of the poor. The PNDS
is not, by definition, targeted towards the poor, and it must be recognized that the less
well off population groups tend to use health services less than others. It is expected that,
over time and beyond the period of Project execution, the PMA will lead to substantially
higher levels of use of health services among the poorer population. Since around 60
percent of medical consultations among the lowest two expenditure quintiles were at
public sector health centers in 1995, and about 50 percent of consultations among the two
highest quintiles were at public sector hospitals, a program, such as the PMA,
concentrated on strengthening services at health centers will benefit the poor relatively
more than the rich. Thus, without being exclusively oriented towards the poor, the
Project represents an operational, health systems-oriented approach to a poverty-
conscious health services strategy.



28
5.16 Findings from the 1995 household survey shed light on poverty and health
services, and the importance of the changes to be promoted by the proposed Project.
According to the survey results, people in the lowest expenditure quintiles were less
likely to report an illness than those in better off households; among those who reported
an illness in the two weeks previous to the survey, nearly 50 percent sought medical care;
the proportion of women seeking care was lower than would be expected; non-poor
households spent an average of CFA francs 28,500 on health care, poor households lying
between the two National Institute of Statistics (INS) poverty lines spent only 19 percent
of this amount, and households in the poorest decile spent only 7 percent. Taking the
initiative for preventive care consultations was all but unknown. Over 90 percent of
consultations for modem health services were reported to have taken place in public
sector facilities. Pharmaceuticals (excluding traditional medicines) made up about 50
percent, and in some cases even more, of household expenditures on health in 1995;
pharmaceuticals are - by far - the principal household concern when questions are asked
about health services. The public subsidy on health care was 34 percent lower in rural
than in urban areas, the amount going to the lowest quintile was 64 percent lower than
the per capita mount obtained by the highest quintile; only 11 percent of public sector
health spending benefited the poorest 20 percent of the population, and 30 percent of
spending benefited the poorest 40 percent.
5.17  The Project preparation process engaged a wide range of stakeholders in a series
of client consultations, and this dialogue will continue during Project execution and
beyond. The client consultations (see Annex 15) addressed the future of health care in
Cote d'Ivoire; health perceptions, attitudes and practices of a wide range of heads of
households in two health districts; and motivation and behavior of health care providers
in Cote d'Ivoire. The private sector was seen to be quite defensive, and limited in its
geographical reach. Public and private sector providers both have a certain skepticism
regarding the other. A gradual rapprochement between the two should be sought.
Deterioration in confidence of the people in both public and private providers was noted.
Initially, the MSP staff were reluctant to listen to others' views. Thanks to the client
consultations, and the Observatoire des Beneficiaires to be established under the
proposed Project, greater openness can be expected; the client consultations will be
continued, as needed, under the Observatoire des Beneficiaires program. Furthermore,
the demand-based approach to district health development plan financing and
implementation will strengthen the need for providers to participate in a dialogue with
beneficiaries. The management committees (COGES) for health facilities will be an
important forum for the participation of beneficiaries in the management of public sector
health services. Finally, the establishment of a framework for dialogue between the MSP
and community groups, and the pilot services to be provided by them, will increase the
participation of beneficiaries in MSP services at both the policy and operational levels,
and complement the other actions taken to give increasing attention to demand variables.



29
E. ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS
5.18 Annual work program and budget reviews will be central to project management.
The Project will support key components of the PNDS, which will engage a number of
donors. For this reason, it is impossible to define the program in detail several years in
advance of execution, particularly in respect of services which are to be responsive to
demand expressed at the district level. Other donors interested in project activities will
be invited to participate in the annual Project reviews within the framework of the
ongoing government-led consultations with donors. Assurances were received during
negotiations that a comprehensive review will be held at the end of 1998, the second
year of project execution, under TOR satisfactory to the Bank. This review will cover,
among other topics, the extent to which the institutional objectives of the Project are
being achieved, an assessment of the impact achieved thus far by the Project and its
sustainability, audit and other obligations under the Credit, and performance against key
indicators. The review will also provide an occasion to make an initial joint stock-taking
of Project successes, and to launch the preparation of a new operation in the health
sector.
5.19 During negotiations, agreement was also reached on the following specific
measures to facilitate Project implementation and review: (a) annual joint MSP-IDA
reviews of future work plans and budgets to be prepared by the MSP for institutional
strengthening and service delivery under the Project; and (b) establishment by the end of
1996 of an annual calendar and process for internal review of Project activities in the
previous year and plans for the forthcoming year, including particularly PMA, family
planning and AIDS prevention and control activities.
F. PROCUREMENT
5.20 Procurement Methods. Table 5 below summarizes Project expenditures, their
estimated costs, and the proposed methods of procurement. Works and goods financed
under the proposed IDA Credit that would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) would follow the Bank guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits", January 1995, and standard bidding documents for ICB. Government
documents and procedures acceptable to IDA for National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
would be used for the works and goods to be procured through NCB. Consultant services
financed under the Credit would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", (August 1981). Section 3.15 of the procurement guidelines published in
January 1995 would apply to NGOs, local authorities, and community associations
involved in procurement under the Project, as described in Section 5. C above. A
standard timetable for key procurement steps will be included in the Project
implementation manual. The main responsibility for procurement of works and goods
will lie with the MSP Directorate for Equipment, Materials, and Maintenance (DEMM),
which is currently responsible for procurement under a number of other donor-financed
projects. If a lack of human or technical capacity leads the DEMM to fall behind on the



30
agreed procurement calendar, it will make use of consultant services. The same applies
to the PSP, which will be responsible for procurement of pharmaceuticals under the
Project.
5.21 Works (US$8.3 million). The civil works program includes mostly renovation
work, including the rehabilitation of six district hospitals, and about 100 family planning
and STD centers. Construction of new buildings (US$3.1) is for two FP clinics, six
regional FP facilities and three district-level offices. In view of the nature of the work to
be carried out, mostly rehabilitation (US$5.2 million), in remote and dispersed areas
(districts), the civil works contracts, even if packaged in larger lots, are not likely to
attract intemational competition.
(a)   NCB: Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$1.5 million or less per
contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$7.8 would be awarded under National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) and would be open to foreign bidders who wish to
participate.
(b)   Other methods: Given the overall purpose of the Project, construction
works on health facilities run by NGOs or local communities, costing no more than
US$30,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, would be procured for rural
health facilities under community participation (para 3.15 of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines). The procedures to be followed would be reviewed and agreed by the Bank
and included in a procedures manual for the pilot NGO component.
5.22 Goods (US$19.0 million, including drugs). To the extent practicable, contracts
for goods would be grouped into bid packages to cost $200,000 or more. Goods to be
procured under the Project include surgical and medical equipment and small medical
apparatus, as well as office furniture and equipment, vehicles, and drugs and medical
consumables.
(a)   Goods other than drugs and medical consumables:
(i) ICB: All contracts for medical and other equipment, and vehicles
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more per contract would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB);
(ii) NCB: Goods estimated to cost US$30,000 or more per contract but
less than $200,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.6 million, would be
procured through NCB, if the products are available locally;
(iii) Other methods:
Exceptions to ICB procurement may be made, if necessary, for
vehicles needed for Project start, up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000; they would be purchased either through (a) UNDP's



31
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), or (b) national
shopping with a minimum of three quotations;
* Goods valued below US$30,000 would be procured by (a) national
shopping procedures acceptable to IDA (with a minimum of three
quotations) up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million, and (b)
direct contracting of equipment of a proprietary nature justified by
requirements for standardization (including computers, software,
medical equipment), estimated to cost less than $30,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000; and
* When necessary for the execution of the Project, small equipment
valued at less than US$15,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate
amount of US$400,000, may be purchased by NGOs or community
associations, in accordance with para 3.15 of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines.
(b)   Drugs and other medical supplies would be procured through the
Pharmacie de la Sante Publique (PSP), whose procurement and management
procedures have been improved through donor-funded support. Community
organizations, local authorities, and NGOs would be allowed to purchase drugs
from PSP for their project related services. The procedures would be detailed in
the NGO procedures manual. The PSP would procure them through procedures
acceptable to the Bank, such as:
(i) ICB: All contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be
procured using ICB.
(ii) NCB: Small contracts for some drugs and medical supplies produced
locally, estimated to cost US$30,000 or more, but less than US$100,000, per
contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$0.4 million, would be awarded
under NCB procedures.
(iii) Other methods: Contraceptives for the Project (US$2.1 million) may
be procured from the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) following para.
3.9 of Bank Procurement Guidelines. The Government will help prepare the
French language technical specifications, registration in RCI, and quality control
information.
5.23 Training (US$5.0 million) includes training abroad (US$0.8 million) and local
training (US$4.2 million).  External training needs represent 80 person-months.
Whenever appropriate, external training would take place in Africa. Details of external
and local training are contained in Annex 20B. Plans for training to be financed by IDA
would be reviewed and approved annually by IDA in the framework of the annual
program reviews.



32
5.24 Consulting Services (US$5.8 million) and Studies (US$2.9 million). The
Project would finance 207 person-months of external specialist support for project
implementation and 500 person-months of local consulting services, including support
for project management. Details of external and local consultant services and a list of
studies and research activities are available in Annex 20A. In order to alleviate the
administrative burden of numerous small contracts, Government would, whenever
practicable, package consulting services into larger contracts.
5.25  NGO Services (US$2.5 million). Proposals for Project-financed health services
by NGOs, local collectivities, and community associations would be reviewed
individually by both the MSP and the Bank. Information for proposals, criteria for
selection, and details on managing the funds would be provided in an NGO procedures
manual. In each case, a contract would be concluded with the MSP. Community bodies
involved in provision of project-financed services, would follow either (a) Bank
procedures as described in this section--whenever feasible--, or (b) efficient methods and
procedures determined in advance jointly with the MSP and reviewed and agreed by the
Bank and set out in the NGO procedures manual.
5.26 Operating Costs (US$8.5, excluding drugs) for the MSP, health services
facilities and non-governmental health services providers involved in the Project,
including office supplies, compensation of contractual staff (US$2.8), local travel,
supervision and training subsistence allowances for local staff, and vehicle/equipment
operation and maintenance, would be procured and paid for following regular
Government procedures, acceptable to IDA. A list of contractual staff to be hired during
Project execution is available in Annex 20C.
5.27 Review by IDA. Prior IDA review would be required for (a) all contracts above
the threshold of US$200,000 for civil works and goods, including drugs; (b) all
consulting services and training contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 (for
consulting firms), US$50,000 (for individual consultants); and (c) all terms of reference
for specialist and training services and all sole source contracts, regardless of contract
value, and any amendment to a contract bringing its value above US$100,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals. The NGO procedures manual to be completed before
disbursements begin under this component (see para 5.2) would specify that all proposals
for NGO services would be subject to prior IDA review. Selective post-review of
awarded contracts below the prior review thresholds would be conducted by supervision
missions or third parties chosen under conditions acceptable to IDA. All other contracts
would be subject to selective post review.



33
Table 5: Summary of Procurement Arrangements a/
(USS million, including contingencies)
Expenditure Category Cost
(PPF included)                ICB             NCB             Other            Total
Civil Works                                            7.8              0.5              8.3
(5.3)           (0.5)           (5.8)
Medical Equipment b/                   6.0              1.6             0.2              7.8
(5.0)           (1.0)           (0.1)            (6.1)
Office Equipment b/                    2.0              1.6             1.7              5.3
(2.0)           (1.1)           (1.0)            (4.1)
Vehicles                               1.7             0.4              0.2             2.3
(1.4)           (0.2)           (0.2)            (1.8)
Drugs and Medical Supplies             1.1             0.4              2.1              3.6
(0.6)           (0.1)           (1.6)            (2.3)
Consulting Services and Studies                                         8.7              8.7
(7.3)           (7.3)
Training                                                                5.0              5.0
(4.5)           (4.5)
Services of Community Org.                                              2.5             2.5
(2.5)           (2.5)
Operating Costs:
Contractual Staff                                                     2.8             2.8
(2.0)           (2.0)
Other Operating Costs c/                                              5.7             5.7
(3.6)           (3.6)
TOTAL                                 10.8             11.8            29.4             52.0
(9.0)           (7.7)           (23.3)           (40.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA, PPF included.
b/ Under these two categories, other methods include a total of US$400,000 for community participation.
c/ Excluding drugs and medical consumables, as defuned in para. 5.25.
N.B. Slight differences may appear due to rounding of numbers.
G. DISBURSEMENT
5.28 To facilitate Project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a Special Account will be opened in CFA francs at the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA). It will be managed by the MSP. The authorized allocation will
arnount to CFA francs I billion and cover about four months of eligible expenditures.
Upon effectiveness, an amount of CFA francs 500 million representing 50 percent of the
authorized allocation will be deposited in the Special Account. The remaining balance
will be made available when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit account and/or



34
special commitments issued amounts to the SDR equivalent of US$20 million. The
Special Account will be used for all payments below US$400,000. Replenishments will
be submitted monthly. All replenishments should be fully documented except for: (a)
contracts of less than US$200,000 for works and goods, (b) contracts for less than
US$100,000 for consultant services - firms, (c) contracts for less than US$50,000 for
consulting services - individuals, which will be claimed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained for
review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
Table 6: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Amount of the Credit    % of Expenditures to be
Category                                  Allocated                financed
(in US$ million)
1. Civil Works                               5.0          90%
2. Furniture, medical & other equipment,
and vehicles                               11.0         100% foreign, and 80% local
3. Drugs and medical consumables             2.0          100% foreign, and 80% local
4.(a) Consulting Services and Training       11.0         100%
4.(b) Services of Community Org.             2.0          100%
5. Operating Costs a/                        3.0          70%
6. Refinancing of PPF                       0.75          --
7. Unallocated                              5.25          --
Total IDA Financing                         40.0
a/ As defined in para. 5.25 above.
H. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
5.29   The Project coordination unit will be responsible for the project's financial
management and will maintain consolidated project accounts.   Project accounts,
including the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure, will be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under SOEs will be audited
semi-annually. As a condition of effectiveness, the borrower will conclude a contract
with an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank to audit the Project accounts.
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1    Proiect Benefits. The immediately measurable benefits of the Project will be
institutional: strengthened MSP capacity and strengthened service delivery, and
expansion of the focus of health leaders beyond traditional curative care to preventive
services, reproductive health, and - to a lesser extent - nutrition. While attribution to the
Project is virtually impossible, the programs to be supported by IDA are expected to
contribute to long-term improvements in health outcomes, particularly reduced fertility,
improved child health, and a relatively reduced burden from sexually transmitted and
other diseases. Work undertaken for World Development Report 1993 - Investing in



35
Health, Better Health in Africa, and other country-specific studies in Africa clearly
demonstrate that the proposed approach - provision of a minimum package of health
services by community-supported and managed health centers, first referral hospitals,
and health districts - is the least cost method to achieve universal coverage and
substantial and sustainable health gains. See Annex 18.
6.2   Project Risks. The main non-quantifiable risks concern: (a) limited commitment
to universally accessible, cost-effective PHN  interventions that are feasible and
sustainable, including particularly reproductive health, with the associated risk of
political interference; (b) the resistance to change generated by substantial past
investments in facilities and human resources oriented towards health services models,
and a centralized public sector management culture, that are inconsistent with the social
and economic realities and needs of the country; and (c) limited MSP and community
group capacity, both centrally and at the periphery, to execute Government and donor-
financed programs. These risks are being mitigated by institutionalizing regular
beneficiary assessments, the recently completed institutional assessment of MSP and the
follow-up organization development program, locating overall responsibility for the
Project in the Minister's Cabinet, building institutional support for community groups
into the Project, and limiting project external financing to three years. The option, of a
'simple' Project (limited, say, to a fully pre-defined set of health activities) might make
the IDA-financed activity appear relatively easy to execute, as an isolated operation.
But, it would increase the geographical division of health services among donors and
would not be able to address the fundamental health sector policy and institutional issues
that inhibit accelerated improvements in health outcomes and widening coverage with
health services in Cote d'lvoire, nor would it be any easier when Project activities were
integrated into regular Government programs at the operating stage. Government
ownership of the Project both outside and within the MSP needs, nonetheless, to be
increased. A Project launch workshop will be held to that end, IEC activities are
planned, allocations of staff time for supervision are planned commensurate to the task,
and trust fund support for supervision work is being pre-programmed.
6.3   The main risks that have been quantified concern an increase in the cost of the
PMA, a decline in Government financial support to health, and the impact of reduced
economic growth. A 50 percent increase in the cost of the PMA, either by mis-
estimation of present costs or by expansion of the range of services provided, would
increase MSP expenditures by about two-thirds; this shows the importance of attention to
cost containment as Cote d'Ivoire pursues the goal of universal access to health care.
Financing univeral coverage with PMA services, with GDP growth at 50 percent of the
rate projected by the Bank, and with a 50 percent decline in the share of Government
expenditures devoted to health, would require an increase of one third in the health share
of household expenditures from its current level of 4.5 percent, to 6.0 percent. While
conceivable, such as shift would require a major communications effort which a
Government not giving priority to health would undoubtedly have difficulty making.
Financing universal PMA coverage with a reduction of economic growth by 50 percent
but keeping the current MSP share in Government expenditures would still be feasible,



36
for it would not require an increase of the Ministry of Public Health budget above
projected values. Thus the Bank's economic growth scenario underscores the great value
of a sound macroeconomy for health improvement but suggests also that the PMA should
be sustainable even with economic growth at about the same rate as population growth.
This would not be the case if Cote d'Ivoire were to seek universal coverage under its
present pattern of expensive hospital-based health services.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   Before negotiations, the Government:
(a)   prepared a draft letter of health policy (para 3.6);
(b)   prepared proposals for the accountability, staffing, and authority
(including job descriptions) of the MSP units which will be involved in Project
execution (para 5.5);
(c)   appointed a Project Coordinator and a Project financial administrator, both
acceptable to the Association (para 5.5);
(d)   completed a draft Project implementation manual acceptable to the
Association which will - in its final version - include the Project accounting
manual, performance indicators, and a full presentation of the content, cost,
rationale, and execution modalities of each component (para 5.6); and
(e)   transferred to an MSP account the remaining counterpart funds required
for the IDA PPF in 1996, 82 million CFA francs (para 5.8).
7.2   Before Board presentation, the Government approved, signed and submitted to
the Association a health policy letter discussed during negotiations (para 3.6);
the Government has also adopted and signed an arrete on the establishment,
organization, and operation of the Project management services (para 5.6).
7.3   Before effectiveness, the Government will:
(a)   deposit CFA francs 315 million, required for the first four months of
project execution, in the MSP Project Account (para 5.8);.
(b)   issue and distribute a circulaire outlining the format, contents, procedures
and eligibility for financing of district health development plans (para 4.6);
(c)   staff, with personnel acceptable to the Association, the units responsible in
the Minister's Cabinet (i) for overall coordination of Project execution, with a
Project accountant in addition to the previously appointed Project Coordinator
and Project financial administrator (para 5.5); (ii) for support in the preparation



37
and implementation of district development plans for introduction of the PMA,
with two public health specialists and a health economist (para 5.5);
(d)   adopt and publish arretes on the creation, organization and operation of
health districts and on the creation, organization, and operation of the Project
management services (para 5.2);
(e)   contract independent auditors for the auditing of all Project-related
accounts (para 5.29);
(f)   adopt a Project implementation manual, satisfactory to the Association,
including a Project accounting manual, performance indicators, procurement, and
a full presentation of the content, cost, rationale, and execution modalities for
each component (para 5.6).
7.4   Key conditions of the IDA Credit will be:
(a)   annual joint review  of MSP budget plans and execution with the
Association, including the provision of counterpart funds for the Project and
investment and recurrent funds required for approved district health development
plans (para 2.1 1);
(b)   annual joint reviews with IDA of future work plans and budgets to be
prepared by the MSP for institutional development and service delivery under the
Project (para 5.19); a comprehensive review should be held by December 31,
1998 (para 5.18);
(c)   by the end of 1996: (i) establishment of a work plan acceptable to IDA for
overall technical support to the family planning program (para 4.11) and of an
agreement between the MSP and AIBEF acceptable to the Association concerning
the Project component for which AIBEF is responsible (para 5.3); (ii)
establishment of an annual calendar and process for internal review of Project
activities in the previous year and plans for the forthcoming year, including
particularly PMA, family planning and AIDS prevention and control activities
(para 5.19); and (iii) updating of the three year health sector public investment
program (para 3.5);
(d)   by the end of 1997, presentation of an action plan acceptable to IDA to
substantially increase the accounting autonomy and financial management
capacity of local public sector health care providers (para 5.7);
(e)   maintenance (i) in the MSP Minister's Cabinet of a PMA technical unit
for support to health districts, such technical unit to include two public health
specialists and health economist acceptable to the Bank (para 5.5); and (ii) in each
of the Executive Directorates for AIDS and Family Planning of a financial
administrator under terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 5.3);



38
(f)   replenishment of the Project account on a quarterly basis or whenever its
balance shall be less than 200 million CFA francs (para 5.8); and
(g)   establishment by the middle of 1997 of national guidelines for syndromic
diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (para 4.11).
7.5   Withdrawal of funds for health services to be provided by community groups will
be subject, as a disbursement condition, to assignment of a Conseiller technique
in the Minister's Cabinet with responsibility for relations with local communities,
community associations, and NGOs, and adoption by the Government of an
acceptable framework for MSP cooperation with community groups, including
policies and procedures for review, execution, and monitoring of Project-financed
services by these groups (para 5.2).
7.6   On the basis of the above terms and conditions, an IDA Credit equivalent to
US$40 million is recommended to support the Project.



,ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HEALTH, NUTRITION, AND POPULATION PROGRAM SUPPORT CREDIT
BASIC INDICATORS
Country Data
Total Population (1993)                    13.4      million (of which 42.3% urban)
Population Growth Rate (1993)               3.7      percent (5.2% urban)
Per Capita GNP (1992)                       680      Atlas/dollars
Growth Rate of Per Capita GNP (1985-92)    -5.2      percent
Education
Primary School Enrollment (1990)           71%        (Male 83%; Female 58%)
Secondary School Enrollment (1990)         23%       (Male 31%; Female 15%)
Population, Health, and Nutrition Indicators
Infant Mortality Rate (1992)                 91      per thousand
Under-five Mortality Rate (1992)            129      per thousand
Maternal Mortality Rate (1988)             1000      per hundred thousand live births
Crude Death Rate (1992)                      12      per thousand
Crude Birth Rate (1992)                      45      per thousand
Total Fertility Rate (1992)                 6.6      children per woman
Life Expectancy at Birth (1992)              56      years
Immunization against:
Tuberculosis (1993)                   53       percent of children 0-1 yr
DPT (1993)                            50       percent of children 0-1 yr
Polio (1993)                          50       percent of children 0-1 yr
Measles (1993)                        52       percent of children 0-1 yr
Child Malnutrition:
Low birth weight (1992)               14       percent of infants
Underweight a/                        12       percent of under-five
Stunting a/                           20       percent of 24-59 months
Wasting a/                            17       percent of 12-23 months
Population with Access to Potable Water    83%       (100% urban; 75% rural)
a/ latest available data between 1980-91.
Source: African Development Indicators, and the Social Indicators of Development.






ANNEXE2
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE      REPUBLIQUE DE C6TE D'IVOIRE,
UNIoN-DIscIPINE-TRAvAOL
NotF n  - 3 SMSP/CAB/SP
Negociation de I'Accord de Credit du Projet de Developpement
des Services de Sante Integres
Entre
La Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
Et
I'Association Internationale de Developpement
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE



ANNEXE 2
A Monsieur James D. WOLFENSOHN
President de la Banque Mondiale
1818 H Street
WASHINGTON DC 20433 ETATS UNIS
Monsieur le President,
Au moment ou les negociations relatives au Projet de Developpement des
Services de Sante Integres s'engagent avec votre Institution, dans le cadre du
Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire, j'ai l'honneur de vous adresser, au
nom du Chef de l'Etat et du Gouvernement de Cote d'Ivoire, la lette ci-apres.
La sante est largement deterrnine par le niveau de developpement atteint et
tout aussi deteriniante pour le developpement a venir, surtout quand celui-ci
s'appuie sur la valon'sation des Ressources Humaines, comme en C6te d'Ivoire.
Ce bin6me Sante-Developpement est i la base de toutes les
recommandations internationales auxquelles la C6te d'Ivoire a souscrit
depuis l'adoption de la strategie des Soims de Sante Primaires (SSP) adoptee a
Alma Ata en 1978.
La Cote d'Ivoire, apres deux decennies de croissance (1960 - 1980) qui
avaient nettement ameliore la plupart des indicateurs sanitaires nationaux, a
connu la crise economique de la decennie 80, caracterisee par la baisse des
ressources allouees aux secteurs sociaux qui, a leur tour, ont entraInm (i) la baisse
qualitative et quantitative des services offerts dans ces secteurs et (ii) la
deterioration des conditions de vie des populations vulnerables, en particulier, les
populations rurales, les menages urbains disposant de faibles revenus ainsi que
les populations feminines, affectees principalement par la baisse de la qualite des
services et accedant difficilement aux services sociaux. En outre, la forte
croissance demographique que connait la Cote d'Ivoire a exerce une pression de
plus en plus lourde sur la demande en services de sante que le systeme sanitaire
national n'a pas su satisfaire. Entre 1980 et 1991, le PNB par habitant a baisse
annuellement de 4,6 %, ramenant celui-ci a 690 $EU.
C'est dans ce contexte difficile, mais propice a la reflexion et aux
mutations, que le Gouvernement, fidele a la tradition d'une politique de
developpement fonde sur l'Homme, a adopte le 31 juillet 1991 une
Declaration de Politique de Developpement des Ressources Humaines dont
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVO[RE
MNINSTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      2



ANNEXE 2
l'objectif fondamental 6tait: "l'amelioration du niveau de vie et du bien-etre
de la population par une meilleure adequation quantitative et qualitative
entre l'offre et la demande en matiere de sante, d'education et d'emploi".
Pour atteindre cet objectif, le Gouvemement a elabore, en collaboration
avec la communaute financiere intemationale, un Programme de Valorisation des
Ressources Humaines (PVRH) execute sur la periode de 1991 A 1994.
A la lumiere des progres enregistres durant ces quatre annees dans les
secteurs des ressources humaines, notamment en matiere (i) de reformes
politiques, institutionnelles et reglementaires, (ii) de maitrise des mecanismes de
contr6le budgetaire aimsi que (iii) de la pertinence de l'approche multisectonrelle,
la Cote d'Ivoire a decide de poursuivre les reformes engages.
Apres avoir formule, A l'occasion de la reunion du Groupe Consultatif les
15 et 16 juin 1995 A Paris, une esquisse de strategie pour la sante et pour le
financement de ses acfivites durant la periode 1995-1997, la CMte d'ivoire
entend poursuivre ses efforts en se dotant, A present, d'un veritable Plan
National de Developpement Sanitaire (PNDS) pour la decennie 1996-2005.
Ce Plan, adopte par le Gouvemement, a I'ambition d'etablir un diagnostic
de la situation sanitaire actuelle, de fixer des objectifs A moyen et long termes, de
formuler une strategie inspiree des acquis du PVRH et d'une vision globale et
prospective du systeme sanitaire national, de decrire une batterie d'activites en
decoulant et de proposer une serie de moyens necessaires a la realisation dudit
programme. Ce Plan est elabore dans un nouveau contexte caracterise
principalement par une conjoncture economique favorable et par le demarrage
d'une politique de population axee en premier lieu sur la sante de la reproduction.
C'est A partir de ce Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire que la CMte
d'Ivoire entend nouer une nouvelle relation de partenariat avec les
organisations internationales et les bailleurs de fonds, afin que leurs
contributions techniques et financieres trouvent un cadre propice A la satisfaction
de leurs inter&s respectifs et de ceux de la promotion d'une meilleure sante pour
les populations ivoiriennes.
REPUBLIQUE DE C6TE DIVOIRE
MrNISTtRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      3



ANNEXE 2
La presente declaration, qui donne les grandes lignes de ce Plan, s'articule
autour de quatre points:
* un rappel de l'evolution economique passee,
* une presentation de 1'evolution de la situation sanitaire,
* une presentation des principaux problemes du secteur de la Sante,
* un expose des objectifs recherches par le gouvernement a moyen et
long terme.
I - RAPPEL DE L'EVOLUTION ECONOMIQUE
1.1. Periode 1980-1989
La decennie 1980 s'est caracterisee par un prolongement de la degradation
de la situation economique du pays malgre les resultats positifs enregistres en
1985 et 1986, essentiellement grace A un redressement ephemere des cours du
cafe et du cacao. L'effondrement des cours A partir de 1987 a provoque une
rechute de F'activite economique et contraint le pays a poursuivre et renforcer les
politiques d'ajustement structurel entrepn'ses anterieurement.
1.2. Nriode 1989-1994
Ainsi, le Gouvernement a elabore, a partir de 1989, un programme
ambitieux de relance economique a moyen terme, axe sur un assainissement
drastique des finances publiques et sur le renforcement des reformes structurelles.
Des politiques sectorielles ont egalement ete mises en place pour eliniiner les
distorsions et les rigidites auxquelles l'economie etait soumise, notamment dans
les domaines de l'agriculture (PASA), de l1'nergie (PASE) et de l'eau (PASEA).
Ce programme a e  complete par un second volet de reformes structurelles visant
le retablissement de la competitivite du secteur industriel (PASCO), la
restructuration du systeme financier (PASFI), la valorisation des ressources
humaines (PASRH), et le desengagement de l'Etat des activites productives au
profit du secteur prive (Privatisation). Parallelement, le Gouvernement a procede
a un allegement sensible de la fiscalite et A une restructuration de la dette
publique interieure.
En depit des efforts consentis et des resultats encourageants obtenus, les
contraintes economiques et financieres sont demeurees fortes. La croissance est
restee  stagnante  voire  parfois  negative,  l'activite  economique  ayant
particulierement souffert de la baisse des investissements tant publics que prives,
et de la contraction de la demande consecutive A la baisse du revenu par habitant
(26,3 % entre 1987 et 1990). Ainsi, compte tenu de l'accroissement
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE       4



ANNEXE 2
demographique dont le taux annuel est de 3,8 %, le revenu par habitant,
etait de 690 Dollars EU en 1991. Ce revenu est tres inegalement reparti. En
effet, en 1988, 20 % de la population detenait 44,1 % de ce revenu. Le
pourcentage des populations vivant en dessous du seuil de pauvret6 absolue
s'elevait en 1985 a 30 % dans les zones urbaines et a 26 % en zone rurale. Les
regions geographiques les plus depourvues se trouvent en zone rurale et les
categories socioprofessionnelles les plus vulnerables sont les agriculteurs de
cultures vivrieres et d'exportation. Au niveau du ch6mage, on denombrait plus de
12,5 % de ch6meurs en 1990, avec un rythme de croissance de 7 % par an contre
4 % en ce qui conceme la population potentiellement active.
La pauvrete s'est donc fondamentalement accrue durant cette periode.
Ainsi, plus de 30 % de la population vivent en dessous du seuil d'extreme
pauvrete, contre 10 % seulement en 1985. Le monde rural comporte plus de
70 % des pauvres, a cause de la forte baisse des revenus ruraux consecutive a la
reduction de plus de la moitie des prix aux producteurs des principales
speculations agricoles. La situation economique de la C6te d'Ivoire en 1993
refletait donc cette crise persistante.
De plus, la surevaluation du Franc CFA constituait un handicap majeur
pour la competitivite de l'economie. En accord avec ses partenaires de la Zone
Franc, le Gouvemement a, en consequence, decide une modification de la
parite du Franc CFA de 50 % par rapport au Franc Fran,ais en janvier
1994. Cette importante mesure, conjuguee au renforcement des efforts
d'ajustement et a l'acceleration des reformes structurelles vise a permettre un
retour rapide a une croissance soutenue et un retablissement durable de la
viabilite financiere du pays.
1.3. Periode 1994-1996
Suite a la modification de la panite du F.CFA par rapport au Franc
Fran,ais, d'importantes mesures d'accompagnement ont et& mises en oeuvre afin
d'assurer une relance economique. Les resultats obtenus au cours des deux
annees ecoulees sont globalement satisfaisants.
En effet, la croissance economique amorcee en 1994 avec un taux de 1,8 %
s'est confirmee en 1995 avec une croissance d'environ 7,0 %. L'inflation a ete
maitrisee avec un taux de 32 % en 1994, puis 7,7 % en 1995. Ces indicateurs de
bonne tenue de l'activite economique sont accompagnes d'une reprise des
investissements et de l'emploi. Ils traduisent une amelioration significative de la
competitivite de l'economie ivoirienne. Le retour de la croissance economique en
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      5



ANNEXE 2
1994 s'est donc consolide en 1995 avec un taux de croissance largement
superieur au taux de croissance demographique.
1.4. Perspectives
Le programme economique et financier a moyen terme vise i
poursuivre les efforts entrepris par le Gouvemement pour restaurer les conditions
d'une croissance forte et diversifiee, consolider le retablissement de la viabilite
financiere interieure et exterieure, et ameliorer le niveau et le cadre de vie de la
population, tout en reduisant les disparites sociales. A cet effet, le Gouvemement
a decide d'accelerer les refornes structurelles initiees depuis 1989, en vue de
renforcer la flexibilite de 1'economie et eliminer les distorsions encore existantes
qui faussent la structure des incitations et freiment la croissance du secteur des
biens echangeables.
Conform6ment a ces objectifs, le programme a moyen terme pour la
periode 1996-1998 vise a: (i) consolider la competitivite de l'econornie et
renforcer la diversification de la structure productive et des exportations,
(ii) porter le taux de croissance a environ 7,7 % des 1996 pour atteindre 8,1 % en
1997 et au moims 10 % des 1998, (iii) degager un excedent budgetaire primnaire
susceptible de couvrir une part croissante du service de la dette interieure et
exterieure, (iv) soutenir et promouvoir le developpement du secteur prive,
(v) developper l'ensemble des ressources humaines du pays, (vi) renforcer la
lutte contre la pauvrete et (vii) renforcer la lutte contre la degradation de
l'environnement naturel et ameliorer le cadre de vie des populations.
I - RAPPEL DE L'EVOLUTION DE LA SITUATION SANITAIRE
2.1. tvolution de l'offre des services
2.1.1. Histonrque
Herite de l'epoque coloniale marquee par une forte distinction entre la
medecine de base et la medecine hospitaliere, le systeme sanitaire national ne
s'est pas demarque de cette tendance, qui, tout en dotant le pays d'une
infrastructure sanitaire imposante, n'a pas suffisamment developpe les services de
base distribuant des soins essentiels preventifs et curatifs. La periode de crise
economique a aussi mis au grand jour les insuffisances dans la gestion du systeme
et l'impossibilite de poursuivre la gratuite des soims.
2.1.2. Organisation et fonctionnement du systeme actuel
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTrRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTt      6



ANNEXE 2
L'organisation actuelle du Ministere de la Sante repond a la volonte
d'adopter une vision manageriale, axee sur la r6solution des grands problemes
sanitaires.
Le service sanitaire public comprend actuellement 1.146 etablissements de
tout niveau, animes par plus de 16.000 agents, dont 1.329 appartenant au corps
medical. La couverture des populations rurales est actuellement d'un dispensaire
pour 10.000 habitants et d'une maternite pour 14.100 femmes en age de procreer,
le ratio medecin/habitants a un pour 9.000 habitants. Ce ratio etait en 1990 d'un
medecin pour 12.300 habitants.
Le systeme sanitaire prive compte 358 services medicaux et paramedicaux
ainsi que 383 officines de pharmacie.
Le budget consacre par l'Etat a la sante est, en 1996, de 52 milliards pour
le fonctionnement et de 42,7 milliards pour les investissements (dons compris),
soit environ 8 % du total.
La contribution des menages s'eleve a environ 10 milliards (medicaments
et actes de sante). En effet, apres avoir pu organiser une sante gratuite durant les
premieres decennies, la crise economique a conduit a rechercher des ressources
additionnelles pour le financement du systeme en instituant un recouvrement des
couits des actes de sante, d'abord au seul niveau des EPN, puis, en 1994, pour
l'ensemble du systeme sanitaire public.
Globalement, les depenses totales de sante (publiques et privees)
s'etablissent a plus de 11.000 F.CFA par habitant, soit 22 dollars EU,
demontrant l'effort consenti par la Cote d'Ivoire, effort qu'il convient, a present,
d'orienter vers une rationalisation et une utilisation optimale.
2.1.3. Prestations
La quasi totalite des prestations sont dispensees a travers des programmes
sanitaires nationaux.
2.2. Evolution de la demande
Trois elements majeurs ont influence F'etat general de la sante des
ivoiriens. II s'agit (i) d'un tableau epidemiologique charge et varie, (ii) d'une
fecondite trop forte qui greve lourdement la sante matemelle et infantile et (iii)
des conditions d'hygiene publique encore precaires et d'une alimentation
qualitativement deficiente.
2.2.1 . Un tableau epidemiologique charge et varie
L'analyse de la situation epidemiologique demontre la persistance, voire la
recrudescence des grandes endermies tropicales, des maladies sexuellement
transmissibles, de la tuberculose et les maladies de l'enfance au premier chef des
problemes sanitaires du pays. A cela, il convient d'ajouter, d'une part, I'apparition
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      7



ANNEXE 2
recente de nouvelles end6mies, notamment le SIDA et l'ulcere de Buruli- et
d'autre part, 1'emergence des pathologies liees au d6veloppement (traumatismes
du travail ou de la route, drogues, maladies cardio vasculaires...).
2.2.2. Unef&condite elevie
La fecondite conna2t un niveau global tres e1eve avec un taux brut de
natalite de 45 pour 1.000 et un indice synthetique de fecondite de 6,6. Elle est
restee quasiment stable sur la periode 1978-1995.
Cette fecondite elevee induit une population tres jeune: plus de 45 % de la
population a moins de 15 ans.
Les repercussions se font sentir fortement sur la sante de la mere et de
1'enfant.
La mortalite infantile et maternelle ne pourra connaitre une regression que
si la fecondite est mieux maitris6e par les couples.
2.2.3. Une hygiene et une alimentation insuffisante
L'urbanisation rapide et un exode rural partiellement controle ont
engendre des conditions d'installation peu propices au respect des regles
elementaires d'hygiene publique et domestique. Les habitats precaires et les
logements spontanes qui se sont crees, tant6t a la peripherie, tant6t au cceur des
villes, sont autant de foyers de maladies epidemiques. Si l'on y ajoute le faible
niveau de revenu de leurs occupants, on associe toutes les causes d'un etat
sanitaire souvent deplorable, favorisant l'eclosion de tous les fleaux socio-
sanitaires (maladies infantiles, paludisme, maladies sexuellement transmissibles,
malnutrition ..... ).
Globalement, la mortalite generale a beaucoup regresse entre 30 ans,
passant de 30 pour 1000 a 12 pour mille. Cependant, la mortalite infantile et
maternelle reste encore trop forte avec des taux respectifs de 88 pour 1000 et 400
pour 100.000 naissances vivantes.
L'esperance de vie est passee de 33 ans en 1960 a 56 ans actuellement.
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MrNISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLUTIQUE DE SANTE



ANNXE12
III - PROBLEMATIQUE DU SECTEUR SANITAIRE
Malgre les progres enregistres, la situation sanitaire est loin d'etre
satisfaisante. En effet, d'une part, la situation epidemiologique demeure
preoccupante et constitue un defi majeur pour toute politique sanitaire et d'autre
part, l'organisation et le fonctionnement du systeme sanitaire restent
insuffisamment articules.
3.1. Au niveau de l'offre des services
3.1.1. Dysfonctionnement dans l 'organisation et lefonctionnement
Les dysfonctionnements importants enregistris, tant dans
l'organisation que le fonctionnement du systeme ne peuvent qu'influencer
negativement les resultats et les performances de celui-ci
3.1.1.1. Au niveau des structures
Dans la sous-region, les infrastructures sanitaires de la CMte d'Ivoire sont
parmi celles qui presentent les meilleurs plateaux techniques. Pourtant, l'offre de
soins semble insuffisante.
En effet, on constate que la plupart des formations sanitaires sont
devenues insuffisamment fonctionnelles, autant a cause de batiments
serieusement delabres ou particulierement inadaptes (en particulier les locaux de
pharmacie) que d'equipements souvent hors service. Le manque de moyens
d'entretien et de maintenance en est la cause inimmdiate ; la penurie de ressources
du secteur public et le manque de politique clairement definie et d'outils de
gestion dans ce domaine en sont les causes profondes.
A cela, iI convient d'ajouter que ces structures sont inegalement reparties
au plan regional, faisant apparaitre de fortes disparites de couverture et donc
de  disponibilite  des  prestations  sanitaires.  L'insuffisance  de  la
programmation est a l'origine de cette situation.
3.1.1.2. Au niveau des personnels
Le ratio medecin/habitants (1 pour 9.000) est nettement meilleur que celui
observe en Afrique Sub-Saharienne (23 850), mais se situe en dessous du niveau
moyen enregistre dans les pays a revenu intermediaire (4 790) et encore loin de la
norme OMS (2 000). Il est de meme des ratios paramedicaux/population.
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLUQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE       9



ANNEXE2
Malgre cet effectif superieur aux moyennes sous-regionales, le service
offert par le personnel medical et paramedical est juge insuffisant pour differentes
raisons.
La motivation professionnelle est insuffisante pour que soient valorisees
a leur meilleur niveau les competences acquises. Le sens du service public n'a pas
atteint toutes les consciences, ce qui induit de graves lacunes dans l'accueil et la
prise en charge des patients. Sans doute, la degradation de l'outil de travail n'est
elle pas etrangere a cette situation.
Le personnel est aussi mal reparti, aussi bien sur le territoire national
qu'entre le milieu rural et le milieu urbain ou entre les differents niveaux de soins,
aggravant encore les disparites dans la disponibilite des soims.
On note aussi une inadaptation de certains programmes de formation
et une absence de planification des recyclages.
Enfin, l'initiative privee est encore balbutiante (a l'exception des
pharmaciens) et concentree dans les grandes villes, ce qui est aggrave par le
manque d'initiative constate chez les jeunes dipl6mes pour leur propre installation
priv6e.
3.1.1.3. Au niveau des activites
Le systeme sanitaire public a connu, jusqu'ici, un developpement et une
gestion caracterises par:
- une offre de services supposee satisfaire la demande des
usagers,
- une meconnaissance des autres initiatives qui ont vu le jour
dans le secteur pnrve lucratif et associatif.
Ces deux tendances ont conduit, en fait, a une imadaptation des
prestations sanitaires aux besoins essentiels des populations et a une vision
etriqu&e de la politique sanitaire nationale.
La vingtaine de programmes sanitaires nationaux fonctionnent encore
trop verticalement et ne sont pas suffisamment integres dans les activites de
formations de base chargees de les mettre en oeuvre.
Un desequilibre est observe entre les prestations curatives et les
prestations preventives, au depens de ces dernieres pourtant plus rentables au
plan de la sante publique.
La productivite des personnels employes dans le secteur tertiaire est
nettement inferieure a celle observee dans les autres niveaux . Les effectifs de
RtPUBLLQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
M[NISTtRE DE LA SANTt PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLnIQUE DE SANTE         10



ANNEXE 2
personnel, plus nombreux dans le niveau superieur sont moms sollicites que ceux
affectes dans les niveaux inferieurs.
Globalement, le volume des activites demeure faible et un certain
nombre de formations sous utilisees. Le changement de parite du Franc CFA
intervenu en 1994 a accentue la tendance depressive observee sur la frequentation
des services, surtout au niveau des parturientes (- 14 %), des femmes (- 12 %) et
des enfants malades (- 5 %).
Cette faible activite pose le triple probleme de (i) I'accessibilite
economique et geographique aux soins, (ii) I'adaptation des prestations a
I'attente des beneficiaires; outre le problme, en voie de solution, de la reelle
disponibilite des medicaments dans les fornations sanitaires publiques, veritable
point d'attraction des populations, se posent ceux de la qualite de l'accueil, de la
relation humaime et de la disponibilite des personnels, donc de la confiance des
beneficiaires dans le systeme et enfin (iii), la confiance dans les prestations
actuelles dispensees par la medecine moderne par rapport aux pratiqueg
traditionnelles, tres vivaces dans l'ensemble de la population, alors que celles-ci
sont ignorees par le secteur moderne de la medecine.
3.1.2. Dysfonctionnement dans la gestion
Malgre les progres observes dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PVRH,
l'absence d'une planification et les deficiences methodologiques de
programmation et de budgetisation sont a l'origine de la non maltrise des
effectifs, d'une preparation budgetaire encore trop sommaire et d'une
supervision insuffisante de 1'execution des budgets dont la decentralisation est
entree en vigueur depuis 1994. En particulier, l'absence de cadre organique pour
les services et de normes de cofits pour les prestations constituent le principal
handicap de la budgetisation. Les defauts de transmission des inforrnations
relatives aux depenses realisees dans les services peripheriques entravent
lourdement le suivi de l'execution des budgets delegues.
Enfin, au niveau des investissements, une certaine faiblesse au niveau des
services d'etudes, de suivi et d'execution s'est traduite par des retards
d'execution importants et un taux de mobilisation des ressources trop faible.
Ainsi donc, que ce soient les infrastructures, les personnels ou les activites,
on retrouve chaque fois, le trait commun d'une gestion insuffisante de moyens
humains et materiels. Le systeme sanitaire semble malade de sa gestion, et ce
a tous les niveaux.
D'abord, a la conception, la deficience de planification, de programmation
et de budgetisation a conduit a pratiquer une gestion intuitive des besoins et non
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTtRE DE LA SANTt PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLM1QUE DE SANT        11



ANNEXE 2
un developpement coherent d'outils de travail. La plupart des dysfonctionnements
viennent de cette insuffisance.
Ensuite, a l'execution, sans objectifs precis, sans indicateurs de
performance clairement d6funis, point de supervision des activites, ni d'actions
correctives, en cas de defaillance. Cela n'a pas permis d'inculquer aux agents un
espnt tourne vers les resultats et vers la recompense des plus actifs.
La combinaison de ces causes conjoncturelles et structurelles a engendre la
situation actuelle principalement marquee par:
* une morbidite et mortalite encore trop importante,
* une accessibilite inegale aux services de sante,
* une baisse de la qualite des services,
* une deterioration de la situation des populations vulnerables,
* une qualite passable de la gestion, tant en matiere de planification
que de budgetisation.
Ainsi, la problematique actuelle se resume a un profond desequilibre
entre l'offre et la demande, et se manifeste par une reelle difficulte a
repondre de maniere adequate aux besoins de la population, et plus
particulierement a ceux des groupes vulnerables.
IV - OBJECTIFS DU PLAN
Pour faire face a l'ensemble des contraintes et problemes identifies dans le
domaine de la Sante, le gouvernement entend poursuivre l'objectif fondamental
d'amrlioration du niveau de vie et du bien-etre de la population par une
meilleure adequation quantitative et qualitative entre l'offre des prestations
sanitaires et les besoins essentiels des populations. En cela, il poursuit les
efforts accomplis durant le PVRH qui ont deja permis de reduire les distorsions
observees.
La strategie qu'il mettra en oeuvre sera fondee sur un ensemble coherent
d'actions concemant la demande et l'offre, appuye par une reorganisation du
Ministere de la Sante Publique qui comprend desormais des structures specifiques
charg6es de la planification et du contr6le/evaluation, aninees par des
economistes.
Les actions sur la demande  visent la maitrise des phenomenes
demographiques pour ameliorer rapidement la sante matemelle et infantile et pour
alleger, a long terme, la charge du systeme sanitaire. Elles visent aussi une
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      12



ANNEXE 2
meilleure connaissance de cette demande en prestations afin que celle-ci puisse
rapidement orienter, sinon diriger l'offre.
Les actions sur l'offre du systeme sanitaire visent en premier lieu a mieux
tirer parti des moyens existants en effectuant une meilleure repartition du
personnel et une meilleure allocation des ressources disponibles, en ameliorant
les ratios couit-efficacite des services (efficacite inteme). Des relations nouvelles
seront nouees avec les acteurs non etatiques pour accroitre la participation de la
societe civile et etablir une coherence globale du systeme sanitaire national de
l'offre publique et privee en prestations sanitaires. Enfin, les efforts realises pour
une meilleure repartition du personnel vers le secteur primaire sera poursuivi. II
convient de rappeler que depuis 1994, ce sont respectivement, 75 % en 1994,
78 % en 1995 et 95 % en 1996 des personnels paramrdicaux sortant de formation
qui ont e  affectes dans les structures primaires, dont 90 % en rmilieu rural. Il en
est de m8me des medecins non intemes recrutes depuis 1994 qui ont ete affectes
a l'interieur du pays (respectivement 80 %, 81 % et 90 %). Cela a permis de
completer la dotation en medecins exer,ant aux chefs lieux de sous prefecture de
6 nouveaux medecins en 1994 , de 4 en 1995 et de 32 en 1996. Au total, il ne
restera plus que 62 sous prefectures a pourvoir (sur 185) dans les deux
prochaines annees.
Les objectifs sp6cifiques que le Gouvemement vise a moyen terme pour
atteindre cet objectif general sont:
a) la reduction de la morbidite et de la mortalite liees au tableau
6pid6miologique;
b) 1'amelioration de 1'efficacite du systeme sanitaire;
c) I'amelioration de l'utilisation des soins;
d) I'amelioration de la qualite des prestations sanitaires.
Les strategies, permettant d'atteindre cet ensemble d'objectifs, sont:
1/ promouvoir les Soins de Sante Primaires bases sur le Paquet
Minimum d'Activites;
2/ promouvoir la multisectorialite et le partenariat avec les autres
acteurs;
3/ ameliorer l'accessibilite geographique et financiere aux services
sanitaires;
4/ ameliorer la gestion du systeme sanitaire,
RPUBLIQUE DE C6TE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANmT PUBLIQUE
LErE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE          13



ANNEXE 2
5/ developper et utiliser optimalement les ressources humaines;
6/ promouvoir la recherche.
4.1. Promouvoir les Soins de Sante Primaires bases sur le Paquet
Minimum d'Activites
4.1.1. Il s'agira d'organiser la mise en oeuvre generalisee des Soins de
Sante Primaires (SSP) et de promouvoir une revision des comportements des
agents de sante. Les SSP reposent sur un paquet d'activites integrees. Un choix
judicieux des activites presentant le meilleur rapport coiut/efficacite
permettra de degager le Paquet Minimum d'Activit6s (PMA) adapte a
l'epid6miologie, au contexte socioculturel national et aux contraintes du
cadre macro economique.
Le PMA reprend la liste des activites minimales qu'il est souhaitable
d'executer dans les diffirents niveaux de la pyraniide sanitaire. II s'agit autant de
prestations cliniques que d'activites de gestion determinees de maniere a offrir,
par complementarite, toute la gamme de prestations a travers toute la
pyramide de service. Ainsi distimgue-t-on:
- au niveau des formations sanitaires de base 16 modules
d'activites: consultation prenatale, accouchement, consultation
postnatale, vaccination, surveillance de la croissance de l'enfant,
planning familial, soins curatifs y compris MST/SIDA, soins
chroniques, activites promotionnelles, visite a domicile, supervision,
planification, suivi des indicateurs, gestion des finances, gestion des
ressources, gestion des medicaments, activites communautaires;
- au niveau de I'h6pital general, 11 modules d'activites: soins
curatifs generaux, soins chirurgicaux, maternite, planning familial,
soms promotionnels, soins specialises, services medico-techniques,
service administratif, fonnation/supervision, services techniques
generaux, activites communautaires;
- au niveau de l'equipe cadre de district, 7 modules d'activites:
planification, gestion, supervision, formation, autres actions d'appui
a la sante, suivi et evaluation, recherche operationnelle;
REPUBLIQUE DE C6TE DIVOIRE
MrNiSTtRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLmQUE DE SANTE          14



ANNEXE 2
- au niveau de la direction regionale, 7 modules d'activites:
planification, gestion, supervision, formation, autres actions d'appui
a la sante, suivi et evaluation, recherche operationnelle
Une place importante sera faite a la vaccination et a la sante de la
reproduction qui sont deux activites preventives par excellence. La premiere,
dans le but d'enrayer la morbidite du premier ige souvent meurtriere, la seconde
pour (i) ameliorer la sante de la mere et de l'enfant et le bien etre des familles
(ii) reduire a terme la pression de la demande sur les services sociaux, enfin
(iii) constituer un maillon important de la politique de population indispensable
dans la perspective d'un developpement durable et 6quitable.
4.1.2. II s'agira, par ailleurs, d'intensifier le programme de lutte contre le
SIDA, les MST et la tuberculose orient6, avant tout, vers la prevention, grace
a un effort accru de mobilisation des ressources nationales et exterieures orientees
dans le sens de l'extension des activites de prevention a grande echelle et
faveur des groupes les plus vulnerables et de la prise en charge psychosociale
des personnes atteintes du VIH/SIDA. De plus, la qualite de la gestion des
activites et de la gestion financiere du programme sera renforcee au niveau
de sa Direction Executive.
4.1.3. I1 s'agira, aussi, de redynamiser le programme de planification
familiale, notamment par la promotion des actions d'information,
d'education et de conseils en vue d'atteindre d'ici 5 ans un taux de
prevalence de 14%. Ici, aussi, la qualite de la gestion des activites et de la
gestion financiere du programme sera renforcee au niveau de sa Direction
Executive.
4.1.4. Il s'agira, enfin, de developper les activites d'Information-
Education-Communication pour la Sante, en les confiant a une structure
specialisee initiant une politique globale, en direction des professionnels du
secteur et du grand public, axee sur les grandes mutations du systeme
sanitaire national.
4.1.5. En conclusion, les activites relatives a la lutte contre les autres
grandes pathologies, a la base de la forte morbidite enregistree, seront integrees
dans la mise en ceuvre reguliere du PMA. En effet, le PMA, dispense
progressivement dans toutes les formations sanitaires, sera initie a partir des
grands programmes nationaux de sante, dont il conviendra de conjuguer la
caracteristique naturellement verticale dans 1'approche de la lutte de chaque
probleme sanitaire (specificites de I'epidemiologie, de sa surveillance, des
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE DIVOIRE
MINISTgRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETrRE DE POLMQUE DE SANTE         15



ANNEXIE 2
protocoles de lutte....) et la necessite de mobiliser localement des moyens
humains et materiels communs ou complementaires.
La revision des programmes de sante se realisera dans ce sens et, plus
particulierement, en veillant a leur integration au niveau operationnel et en
utilisant les resultats des etudes prevues pour la mise en place d'un systeme de
surveillance epidemiologique plus efficace. Ce processus permettra, en outre, de
repondre aux exigences de la devolution nationale du programme de lutte contre
l'onchocercose. Cette revision sera completee par l'elaboration, la mise a
disposition et 1'exploitation d'outils techniques (normes et standards) qui
garantiront une amelioration de la qualite des diagnostics, des traitements et des
soms (Guide Therapeutique NatiQnal, Guides pratiques de soins infirmiers, Table
des medicaments substituables....).
La mise en ceuvre du Paquet Minimum d'Activites sera favorisee par
(i) I'augmentation sensible de la part des ressources financieres allouees au
secteur primaire qui est deja passee de 28 % en 1992 a 32 % en 1996, ainsi que
par la maitrise de leur gestion par la peripherie, (ii) la mise en place d'une
structure de pilotage specifique au mnveau central et (iii) une planification par
district de la mise en ceuvre du PMA.
Au total, I'amelioration escomptee pour 2005 de l'etat general de la
sante de la population se caracterisera, entre autres indicateurs, par une mortalite
infantile de l'ordre de 50 pour 1000, une mortalite maternelle inferieure a
200 pour 100.000 en milieu rural, une esperance de vie i la naissance de 60.
ans, une couverture vaccinale adequate de 90%, un taux de malnutrition
inferieur a 12%, une elimination des carences en iode, fer et vitamines A, un
taux d'utilisation des sachets de rehydratation orale de 80%. En outre, la
poliomyelite, la dracunculose et le tetanos neonatal seront eradiques, tandis
que les autres grandes endemies seront contr61ees efficacement de maniere a
en reduire l'extension et l'impact sur les populations.
4.2. Promouvoir la multisectorialite et le partenariat avec les autres
acteurs
Un nouveau schema est a initier, tant dans le developpement que dans la
gestion du secteur sanitaire qui doit, desormais, 8tre apprehende comme
gouverne, non plus par l'offre, mais par la demande de services et comme
une seule entite nationale, dans ses composantes publiques et privees.
La promotion de ce nouveau schema sera guidee par plusieurs orientations.
A la deconcentration de ses services deja amorcee doit 8tre alli6e
une veritable decentralisation des responsabilites au niveau des
communautes et de leurs representants. La sante faisant partie des
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      16



ANNEXE 2
besoins fondamentaux et des droits inalienables de l'Homme, sa gestion'ne
peut echapper, pas plus a la responsabilite de l'Etat pour sa partie
organisation qu'a celle des individus et des communautes pour son
fonctionnement. Ainsi, le systeme sanitaire, pour deboucher sur la sante
pour tous, doit etre la preoccupation de tous.
L'Etat ne peut se soustraire a ses obligations de mettre A la
disposition de tous des infrastructures et du personnel qualifie et de veiller
a ce que les prestations sanitaires de base soient accessibles a tous et
correspondent bien A l'attente des populations. A ce niveau, un effort
important doit etre entrepris pour assurer la meilleure connaissance
possible des besoins ressentis par celles-ci. La mise en place et
l'exploitation systematique des appreciations des usagers issues d'un
observatoire des beneficiaires y aidera.
De la meme maniere, les communautes sont desommais appelees a
s'impliquer dans l'organisation et la gestion des activites de sante, afin que
celles-ci correspondent bien aux besoins prioritaires qu'elles ressentent et
que les agents sanitaires dispensent bien des prestations de qualite. C'est le
sens de la creation des Comites de Gestion des formations sanitaires qui
sont largement investis de ces responsabilites, mais dont la formation et la
promotion seront developpees.
Cependant, la decentralisation ne prendra toute sa dimension
qu'en reconnaissant le r6le du secteur non etatique et qu'en incitant
son developpement dans le cadre global d'un systeme sanitaire
national.
Ce secteur non etatique doit etre per,u dans toutes ses composantes,
que celles-ci concement (i) l'implication encore trop timide des
communes dans la creation et la gestion des services de base, (ii) le
developpement du mouvement associatif par le biais d'ONG d'usagers,
prestataires de services sanitaires, (iii) l'organisation des professions
sanitaires privees, notamment les jeunes medecins, dans le sens d'une
association au service public par conventionnement, (iv) l'interessement
du secteur lucratif a la gestion des soins tertiaires grace a l'emergence
de la mutualisation du risque maladie ou, enfin, (v) la colaboration des
praticiens traditionnels en vue d'une organisation concertee et non plus
concurrente.
Dans cette optique, il est essentiel d'identifier les autres secteurs publics et
les mouvements associatifs sanitaires (ONG, associations caritatives et
mouvements confessionnels) et d'etablir un cadre juridique et pratique
suffisamment flexible definissant les conditions et les criteres de participation des
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MTNISTERE DE LA SANTt PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTt        17



ANNEXE 2
uns et des autres a la mise en place du programme d'action de la politique
sanitaire nationale. En termes specifiques, il s'agira d'abord de d6finir les
mecanismes de financement et les procedures de gestion, les criteres d'e1igibilite
des ONG ainsi que les criteres et le processus de selection des projets, les
procedures d'execution, de suivi d'evaluation des projets selectionnes et les
critres de participation des communautes (nombre d'individus touches,
implantations geographiques, satisfaction des besoins endogenes...). I1 s'agira
ensuite de planifier un processus de consultation entre le Ministere de la Sante
Publique, les mouvements associatifs, dont les ONG, et les autres secteurs
publics pour definir les mecanismes de collaboration dans les activites de Sante
en termes de relations d'ONG entre elles (nationales, imtemationales) et avec le
Ministere de la Sante Publique.
Contrairement aux autres pays de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, l'emergence des
ONG dans le domaime sanitaire est relativement recente en Cote d'Ivoire, a
l'exception des mouvements confessionnels. Mais ddja, selon la perceptiorn
generale, les beneficiaires sont, d'une maniere globale, satisfaits des services
offerts par les organismes a base communautaire et confessionnels, ce qui
confirme l'opinion selon laquelle le mouvement associatif represente souvent
une approche efficace pour atteindre des resultats concrets en matiere de
sante au niveau des menages surtout les plus vulnerables.
Aussi, semble-t-il opportun de promouvoir l'engagement de la societe
civile par la voie associative dans le developpement de la politique sanitaire, ce
qui constitue une mesure appropriee pour faciliter le consensus national
necessaire pour garantir la reussite des reformes fondamentales du systeme
sanitaire.
La promotion de la participation de la communaute a la gestion et au
fmancement que pr6ne la nouvelle politique sanitaire justifie la pertinence de ce
projet dont les resultats contribueront a renforcer l'efficacite des programmes, en
particulier celui de la sante reproductive. En pratique, ce processus permettra au
Ministere de la Sante Publique de mettre en place toutes les dispositions
institutionnelles et juridiques pour mieux gerer la vie associative du secteur
sanitaire, toutes choses non encore etablies et disponibles actuellement.
La CMte d'Ivoire s'acheminera ainsi vers un nouveau schema de
partage des responsabilites, base sur un partenariat entre I'Etat, les
communautes et les organisations qui representent leurs interets et
l'ensemble des professionnels de la sante, tous agissant dans le cadre global
du systeme sanitaire national.
REPUBIUQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINSTERE DE LA SANTE PUB3LIQUE
LETTRE DE POLrITQUE DE SANTE       18



ANNEXE 2
De plus, la sante ne dependant pas que des avancees de la medecine,
elle est directement liee a 1'6volution de toute une serie de facteurs agissant dans
des secteurs connexes, conduisant ainsi a opter pour une vision large et
intersectorielle de I'avenir. Une vision prospective doit etre adoptee pour
decrypter le systeme sanitaire national, tel qu'il fonctionnera durant les
premieres decennies du XXI eme siIcle.
4.3. Ameliorer P'accessibilite geographique et financiere aux services
sanitaires
Le renforcement de la couverture sanitaire est une necessite pour.ameliorer
le niveau general de la sante des populations. Par couverture sanitaire, il faut
entendre, non seulement, (i) la remise en etat fonctionnel de l'ensemble des
infrastructures sanitaires actuelles, (ii) la densification du reseau de centres de
sante et d'h6pitaux, (iii) la disponibilite et l'accessibilite des medicaments
essentiels, mais aussi (iv) la promotion d'un systeme de protection sociale
permettant de faire face aux risques majeurs de la maladie.
4.3.1. Remettre en dtatfonctionnel les infrastructures actuelles
Les programmes de rehabilitation actuellement lances ne concernent que la
moitie, environ, du patrimoine sanitaire public. L'amelioration de I'accessibilite
geographique aux soins et de la qualite de ces demiers d6pend directement de la
generalisation de l'op&ration. L'experience acquise dans les premieres
operations (procedures, normes...) devrait permettre d'accelerer l'execution des
prochaines realisations.
Une operation d'une telle envergure est a doubler de la mise en oeuvre
effective d'un processus d'entretien des batiments et de maintenance des
equipements, aide dans ce sens par la disponibilite de cadres techniques
(ingenieurs et techniciens biomedicaux) recemment formes a cet effet. Des
normes et standards d'entretien et de maintenance seront elabores pour chaque
categorie d'equipement et des programmes pluri annuels seront etablis et pris en
compte dans les budgets.
RIPUBUQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTtRE DE LA SANTE PUBELQUE
LETTRE DE POLMQUE DE SANTE          19



ANNEXE,2
4.3.2. Densifier le reseau d 'etablissements sanitaires
La reduction des disparites dans l'accessibilite geographique est A
rechercher dans les zones rurales les plus peripheriques.
Elle doit aussi concerner les zones periurbaines de plus en plus peupl6es et
dont le niveau de vie des populations est particulierement faible. La lutte contre
la pauvrete passe par le desenclavement sanitaire des quartiers spontanes,
tant par la mise a la disposition de leur population d'infrastructures de base que
par la conduite de programmes sanitaires adaptes aux situations rencontrees.
Cette extension du reseau sera guidee par les resultats de la carte
sanitaire pour d6terminer les implantations optimales.
D'ici 2005, seront ainsi construits 350 dispensaires et 450 maternites
amenant les ratios de couverture en milieu rural A un dispensaire pour un
peu moias de 10.000 habitants (maintien du ratio actuel) et une maternite
pour 6.600 femmes en 'age de procreer. L'adoption du concept de centre de
sante integre comprenant un service dispensaire et un service matemite
dimensionn6s pour ces bassins de desserte et animes par du personnel
paramrdical plus polyvalent, permettra des economies dans les investissements et
ie fonctionnement, tout en rapprochant sensiblement les populations d'un point
d'entree dans le systeme sanitaire. En termes d'accessibilite geographique, ces
nouvelles infrastructures permettront a 80 % de la population de vivre dans
une localite disposant d'une formation sanitaire. De ce fait, seulement 10 %
de la population se trouvera a moins de 5 kilometres et 10 autres entre 5 et
10 kilometres d'une formation sanitaire.
4.3.3. Rendre disponibles et accessibles les medicaments
essentiels
Dans le secteur public, il convient d'asseoir definitivement la securite de la
disponibilite retrouvee des medicaments essentiels accessibles a tous dans les
formations  sanitaires  publiques.  La  regularite  et  la  fiabilite  des
approvisionnements des formations les plus peripheriques sera renforcee par
les resultats de la restructuration recente de la Pharmacie de la Sante Publique
(PSP) et par l'adoption de modes de gestion plus econoiniques.
A la suite du changement de parite du Franc CFA et du reajustement des
prix des medicaments, l'accessibilite economique aux medicaments essentiels sera
preservee en poursuivant une politique plus determinee d'approvisionnement
en medicaments generiques de bonne qualite dont la proportion en volume
des commandes devra representer rapidement au moins 50 % du volume
actuel, grace a 1'enregistrement de nombreux produits de type generique en 1994
et 1995.
REPUBUQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLmQUE DE SANTA        20



ANN=X2
Dans le secteur prive, la promotion d'une large penetration des produits
generiques de qualite a ete rendue possible a la fois par la r6forme de la
reglementation des autorisations de mise sur le marche et par la mise en oeuvre
effective de la possibilite legale de la substitution accord6e aux pharmaciens. La
formation et la participation active des prescripteurs et des professionnels
de la filiere pharmaceutique sera intensifiee pour atteindre une consommation
de l'ordre de 50 % en produits gen6riques. L'accessibilite 6conomique aux soins
en depend directement.
De plus, l'industrie pharmaceutique nationale sera developpee, faisant
passer le taux de production nationale de 5 % de la consommation a environ
20%.
4.3.4. Promouvoir un systeme d'assurance maladie
L'initiation d'une couverture sociale du risque maladie est une consequence
directe de la generalisation du recouvrement des coQts des actes de sante ains5
que l'objectif de promouvoir les activites du secteur sanitaire prive qui est
conditionnee par l'emergence d'une demande solvable plus nombreuse.
Mesurant les risques de l'entreprise, la demarche sera prudente et
progressive.
Prudente, car Iltat se veut avant tout promoteur d'un systeme dans lequel
la responsabilite des beneficiaires sera pleinement engagee a partir d'une
organisation de type mutualiste a assise locale, puis f6derative de proche en
proche.
Progressive, car l'initiative fera l'objet d'une phase d'essai, grice a la
programmation d'experiences pilotes, n6cessaire pour assurer tous les moyens de
controle et de maitrise de son developpement ulterieur.
Concemant avant tout les prestations de base, le secteur priv6 des
assurances sera appek a participer a la couverture compl6mentaire qui
demeurera facultative.
4.4. Ameliorer la gestion du systeme sanitaire
Les efforts significatifs enregistres dans la reallocation des ressources et
dans la creation d'outils de gestion sont a poursuivre, pour atteindre une mattrise
suffisante aux niveaux (i) de son fonctionnement, plus particulierement dans la
maitrise des cofits et (ii) de son developpement, notamment dans la maitrise des
programmes et des investissements. n1 s'agit aussi bien de la planification, de la
programmation, que de la budgetisation et de son suivi.
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANT9 PUBUQUE
LETTRE DE POLmQUE DE SANTE        21



ANNEX2
Les recommandations contenues dans la revue des depenses publiques
seront systematiquement exploitees. En particulier,
- concemant le processus de budgetisation, (i) des normes de calcul
d'allocation de credit en fonction des activites seront definies et appliquees des le
budget 1997, qui sera prepare a partir des besoins exprimes par les structures
sanitaires, (ii) la nomenclature de presentation des investissements sera revis6e
afin de refleter les activites du Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire.
- concemant la planification, la creation d'une structure specifique et la
mise en ceuvre courant 1996 de la carte sanitaire perrnettront de maitriser le
developpement du systeme sanitaire national, dans ses infrastructures et ses
activites.
- concemant la gestion des Ressources Humaines, la mise a jour du fichier
central en 1996 ainsi que la mise en ceuvre d'un logiciel de gestion permettront
une meilleure repartition des effectifs actuels et une determination precise des
besoins.
- globalement, la competence gestionnaire des services du Ministere de la
Sante Publique sera renforcee de maniere a pouvoir etablir un veritable dialogue
technique avec les services des Finances et de la Fonction Publique.
L'avenement d'une culture gestionnaire dans le domaine de la sante
passe par l'adoption d'tune gestion par objectifs qui postule la disponibilite d'un
systeme d'informations sanitaires performant, d'outils de gestion et d'indicateurs
de performance pour mesurer les niveaux d'activites en les rapprochant des
moyens mis en oeuvre. La creation d'une structure specifique chargee du contr6le
et de 1'evaluation de toutes les activites du Ministere permettra de mettre en
ceuvre cette gestion par objectif.
Dans le meme sens, seront etroitement relies les implications du
daveloppement du systeme sanitaire national et le contexte offert par le cadre
macro economique, qui bien qu'oriente vers la croissance, necessite une
surveillance constante. Les efforts enregistres pour maintenir la masse salariale
dans des proportions acceptables pour le financement des autres inputs seront
poursuivis, en assurant des arbitrages pour les types d'emploi les plus productifs
sur le plan de la sante publique.
Enfin, toujours dans l'objectif de promouvoir les activites presentant les
meilleurs ratios cout efficacite, les ressources allouees au secteur primaire seront
privilegiees par rapport aux autres secteurs, notamment le tertiaire pour lequel les
efforts de rationalisation du fonctionnement seront poursuivis et les etudes pour
un plus large financement des usagers seront entreprises.
Le systeme d'informations sanitaires sera consolide en (i) ameliorant la
fiabilite et la rapidite des donnees, (ii) mettant au point une serie d'indicateurs
pertinents, tant sur le plan epidemiologique que sur celui des activites et (iii)
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MMSTtRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTR DE POLMQUE DE SANTE          22



ANNEXE 2
organisant une retro informnation tres large permettant d'utiliser ces donnees dans
le processus d'elaboration des plans d'actions, leur budgetisation et leur
evaluation.
Ce systeme d'information alimentera, A son tour, le dispositif de la carte
sanitaire qui guidera les decisions relatives (i) au developpement des
infrastructures en corrigeant les disparites, (ii) A la meilleure allocation des
ressources de fonctionnement en fonction des activites reelles des services et (iii)
A la mise en cuvre d'activites mieux ciblees sur les specificites epidemiologiques
locales.
Dans un contexte financier caracterise par la disponibilite de ressources
multiples provenant du budget de l'Etat, des usagers et des contributions
exterieures, leur utilisation optimale sera recherchee par une approche
comptable consolidee des differentes sources et par une integration effective
de I'aide internationale au schema de financement. Une attention
particuliere sera apportee a I'amelioration du rendement du recouvrement
des cofits des actes de sante et a son utilisation rationnelle dans le cadre de la
mise en ceuvre du Paquet Minimum d'Activites.
Dans le souci de maitriser et d'accroitre les ressources du systeme, seront
mis en ceuvre: (i) le developpement des comptes nationaux de la sante qui
permettront d'etablir un tableau general du financement du systeme sanitaire
national mettant en exergue la repartition des charges entre tous ses acteurs, ainsi
que la verification des grands equilibres necessaires A son bon fonctionnement,
(ii) de nouveaux mecanismes et moyens de mobilisation des ressources
financieres des menages pour la sante par la voie d'une plus grande utilisation de
l'assurance privee, notamment en ce qui concerne l'acces aux prestations
sanitaires non comprises dans le PMA, et, enfin, (iii) de systemes plus elabores
de ciblage des fonds publics en faveur des populations les plus pauvres.
L'animation et la coordination des grands programmes de sante au niveau
de leur application locale ainsi que le contr6le rapproche effectif du
fonctionnement des etablissements sanitaires trop souvent livres A eux-memes ne
seront obtenues que par une deconcentration effective des responsabilites et
des moyens au niveau des directions regionales et des directions
departementales (districts sanitaires). En effet, du rapprochement entre
l'administration de la Sante et les usagers et du dialogue permanent et transparent
entre ces partenaires depend l'adh&sion des populations aux differents
programmes de sante. Pour aider le mouvement, un cadre juridique precis sera
elabore pour consacrer les delegations de responsabilites A ces differents niveaux.
4.5. Developper et utiliser optimalement les ressources humaines
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTtRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE      23



ANNEXE 2
La promotion des personnels de la sante est conditionnee par l'elaboration
et la mise en cuvre d'une veritable politique des personnels oeuvrant dans le
systeme sanitaire national.
Elle devra concemer les aspects quantitatifs et qualitatifs.
Quantitativement, il s'agira de maitriser les effectifs en service afin de
veiller a une bonne repartition spatiale et technique des agents a court et a long
terme dans l'ensemble du systeme sanitaire national. Cela impliquera, non
seulement un effort gestionnaire, mais aussi un partenariat veritable avec les
organisations professionnelles.
Qualitativement, il s'agira de repenser les formations professionnelles
initiales et continues en fonction des besoins, notamment en revisant les
curricula des formations dans le cadre du Paquet Minimum d'Activites.
Parallelement, sera initie un processus visant a modifier le comportement des
agents vis-a-vis des usagers (accueil, prise en charge psychologique, assiduit&....)
par des mecanismes touchant a la motivation des personnels et de valorisation des
activites, mais aussi a l'evaluation et au contr6le rapproche du fonctionnement
des etablissements. La nouvelle approche de gestion du systeme par la demande
devrait contribuer a cette mutation.
4.6. Promouvoir la recherche.
La realite des effets de la recherche sur l'organisation sanitaire est
incontestable, tant ses resultats sont palpables et significatifs, aussi bien dans le
domaine medical que pharmaceutique moderne ou traditionnel. Malgre ses
r6sultats indeniables, force est de constater que la recherche sur l'organisation
sanitaire n'est pas suffisamnment valorisee et prise en compte sur le terrain.
Ainsi le nouveau schema de developpement du systeme sanitaire exige
qu'une place preponderante soit accordee a la recherche dans le but de
favoriser la connaissance de l'epidemiologie du pays et de proposer des
solutions novatrices quant a la prise en charge des malades, a la technologie
biomedicale, a l'identification des prophylaxies appropriees, a l'organisation
sanitaire, a la definition des politiques sanitaires conformement aux valeurs
socioculturelles et morales du pays.
Les efforts engages a l'occasion de la preparation (PPF) du Programmne de
Developpement des Services Sanitaires Integres offrent un cadre ideal pour
developper un veritable programme d'etudes et de recherches-actions oriente
vers la promotion des mutations fonctionnelles et des changements
institutionnels prevus par le Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire.
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTtRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
LETTRE DE POLMQUE DE SANTE        24



ANNEXE 2
Trois axes de developpement de la recherche ont ete retenus: les sciences
de la sante, les sciences sociales et les sciences de la gestion dans le but de
promouvoir I'approche des problemes adoptee dans le cadre du PVRH:
planification, programmation, budgetisation  et suivi (PPBS). Dans cette
perspective, 1'economie de la sante, la sociologie et l'anthropologie medicales, la
gestion du risque et de l'innovation, tout comme la recherche medicale et
pharmaceutique en constituent les pieces maitresses.
En definitive, il convient d'indiquer que la definition de ce programme est
l'aboutissement d'un processus tres large de concertation et de dialogue
instaure entre les principales administrations nationales et la plupart des
bailleurs de fonds exterieurs a l'occasion de la preparation du Programme
National de Developpement Sanitaire.
Expression de la volonte du Gouvemement ivoirien de continuer a placer
I'homme au centre de ses preoccupations, au moment ou son environnement
economique s'ameliore, ce programme vise a inscrire les nouvelles chances de
developpement du Pays dans le cadre de I'amelioration des conditions de vie de
ses populations et plus particulierement dans celui d'une meilleure sante pour
tous les ivoiriens.
La presente Lettre de Politique constitue un cadre de reference des
actions de l'Etat dans lequel s'inscriront les interventions des partenaires
ext6rieurs (organismes intemationaux de financement du developpement,
institutions du systeme des Nations Unies, pays amis, etc...) dont le concours sera
sollicite au cours d'une prochaine Table Ronde des Bailleurs de Fonds, pour la
mise en oeuvre des mesures qu'elle implique. Celles-ci sont esquissees dans les
documents techniques annexes A ce document central.
RMPUBLIQUE DE C6TE D'IVOIRE
MrN[STtRE DE LA SANrT PUBLIQUE
LETIRE DE POUTIQUE DE SANTE       25



ANNEX
V. CONCLUSION
Je saisis cette occasion pour reiterer 1'engagement du Gouvernement de la
C6te d'Ivoire envers le programnme decrit dans la presente lettre de politique de
sante. Le Gouvernement est convaincu que ce programme contribuera a ameliorer
sensiblement le developpement sanitaire et social de la C6te d'Ivoire.
Sur la base des reformes deja entreprises et a la lumniere du programme ci-
dessus mentionne, le Gouvemement vous invite a considerer favorablement
l'octroi d'un credit pour le developpement de services sanitaires integres, afin de
soutenir ses efforts.
le COt.       Abidjan le, 28 mai 1996
Son Excellence, Monsieur Maurice KAKOU GUIKAHUE
Ministre de la Sante Publique
Annexes:
1- Matrice budgetaire
2- Indicateurs globaux
REPUBLIQtlE DE COTE D IVOIRE
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUtE
LETrRE DE POLITIQUE DE SANTE       26



MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBUQUE                                    EVOLUTION DU BUDGET DE LA 8ANTE                                                       EN MLLiNS FCFA
Direction des Affaires Flnanclres
1 995                1996        %   9196        1 997        %   98196      1 998        %   9819s   19W    n         *       1si
TYPE DE DEPENSES                                 =      _=_=_=_=
PRIMAIRE                                 18516    29          21 89   30    118            25 092  31,9  1,1!          29 e,s    3, 1             35291  38,0  1,1f
Salaires                                 11100    34          11 702    35  1,05           12287    35  1,05           12656    35  1,03           13035    35  1,03.
Fonctionnement hors salaire               2 320    16          4 341    27  1,87            5 404    30  1,24           7223    35  1,34            9018    38  1,25
M6dicaments et vaccins                    2688    901          2 283    94  0,85            2 404    94  1,05           2 534    94  1,05           2659    94  1,05
Investissements                           2 408    17          3 569    17  1,48            4 997    22  1,40            7 246    28  1,45        110 579    36  1,46
SECONDAIRE                               17 492    27         21 899    30  1,25           22 439    23  1;02          23 206    27  1,03          23 255    25  1,0o
Salaires                                  4 897    15          5 349    16  1,09            5 616    16   1,05          5 785    16  1,03           5 958    16  1,0o
Fonctionnement hors salaire               3190    22           2 735    17  0,86            2 984    17  1,09           3 451    17  1,16           3 998    7  1 ,16
MWdicaments et vaccins                       72     2             34     1  0,47              38      1  1,12              40     1  1p05             42     1  1,05
Investissements                           9 333    65         13 781    67  1,48           13 800    60  1,0C          13 930    54  1.01          13 257    46  0,95
TERTIAIRE                                17 471    27         17 309    24  0o99           18 892    24  1,09          19 034    23  1,06          21 085    23  1,o0
Salaires                                  9141    28           9 028    27o 0,99            9 479    27  1,os           9 764    27  1,03          10 05    27  1,03
Fonctionnement hors salaire               6 090    42          5 480    34  0,90            5 799    3   1,06           6 131    30  1,06           6 512    17  1,06
M6dicaments et vaccins                      240     8            113     5  0,47             120     5  1,06              126     5  1,05            134      1  1,06
Investissements                           2 0oc    14          2 688    13  1,34            3 494    15  1,30           3 913    15  1,12           4 382    15  1,12
ADMINISTRATION & FORMATION               10 993    17         11 518    16  1,05           12 313    16  107           12 713    15  1,03          13126    14  1.03
Salaires                                  7 510    23    r    7 358    22  098              7 726    22  1,05           7 958    22. 1,03           8 196    22  1,03
Fonrdionnement hors salaire               2 900    20          3 543    22  1,22            3 745    21  1,06           3 936    19  1,05           4 050    17  1,03
MWdicaments et vaccins             0_                                    0  -__  a                   C
Investissements                             583     4            617     3  1,06             842     4  1,36             819      3  0,97            880     3  1,07
TOTALSANTE                               64 472   100         72 621   100  1.13           78 736   100  1,08          86 511   100  1,09          92 758   100  1,0
Salaires                                 32 648    51         33 437    46  1,02           35109    45  1,05           36162    42  1,03          37 247    40  1,03
Fonctionnement hors salaire              14 500    22         16 099    22  1,11           17 933    23  1,11          20 741    24  1,16         23 578    25  1,1
Medicaments et vaccins                    3000      5          2 430     3  0,816,                   3  1,5s            2700      3  1.05           2 835    3  1,05
Investissements                          14 324    2          20 65     28  1,44           23133    29  1,12           25908s   30  1              29098    31  1,1
Page 1



MATRICE DES ACTIONS DU SECTEUR DE LA SANTE
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE DEVELOPPEMENT SANITAIRE
1996 - 2005
OBJECTIFS                           STRATEGIES                               ACTIVITES                    CALENDRIER               DEDPERFOR
1. Reduire la morbidite et la    1.1 Promouvoir les Soins de Sante         i          'f.           . - .
mortalit6 liees aux maladies     Primalres bases sur le Paquet Minimumet.m
operationnaliser le PMA dans les districts                  _taux d'extension aux autres disticts
sanitaires                                                   apres les experiences pilotes
1997 - 1999      -variation positive du taux de
satisfaction chez les beneficiaires
renforcer l'information. 1'6ducation et la                    niveau de vulgarisation dans la
communication pour la sante                                  population des messages de sante
1997- 1999
programme elargi de vaccination                             de couverture vaccinale ad6quate
1997 - 1998      superieur ou egale a 80%
MST/SIDArTuberculose                                         reduction de l'incidence du SIDA et
stabilisation de la pr6valence
1997 -2000      _r6ductlon de la lethalite due au SIDA
paludisme                                                    reduction de moitie de la morbidit6 et
1997 - 2000     de la l6thalitA due au paludisme
autres grandes endemies                     1997-2000        la dracunculose en I'an 2000
maltrise du processus de devolution          >
de la lutte     absence de o 
1997 - 2000      recrudescence de l'onchocercose               :
prevalence de la trypanosomiase
'    1997 - 2000      infArieure A 10% dans tous les foyers
MinistW s de la sant6 publique                                                      Page 1                                                               Rdpubllque     b e Me  /ivoire



OBJECTIFS             I            STRATEGIES                               ACTIVITES                   CALENDRIER                   INDICATEUR
DE PERFORMANCE
_reduction de moitie de la prevalence
1997 - 2000     de la bilharziose
taux de prevalence inferieur A
1997 - 1997     1p. 10.000 habitants
maltrise de 1'6pid6miologie de
1997 - 1999     l'ulcere de burili
contr6le de l'ulcere de burili
sante do la reproduction / planification   1997 - 1999      _reduction de 30% de la mortalitb
familiale                                  m997ern1999e
.   _prevalence contraceptive superieure
1997 - 1999     ou egale a 14% en I-an   2000
_taux de mortalite infantile inferieur ou
1997 - 1999     6gale A
50 p.1000
_activites et prestations en matiere de
1997 - 2000     sante des jeunes int6gres dans le
PMA A l'an 2000
nutrition                                                  _taux de malunitrition infantile reduit
de moitiA en lan 2000
1997 - 2000     _radication des carences en
micronutriments
medicaments essentiets                                      _medicaments essentiels disponibles
1997 - 1999     et accessibles dans toutes les
formations sanitaires
medecine traditionnelle                                     -document de pilitique
d'integration de la medecine               >
traditionnelle existe
erpsultats du recensement des dIor
tradipraticiens et des feuilles             eF
l              ~~~~medicinales sont disponibles                 a
Ministere de la san te publique                                                    Page 2                                                             Republique de Moe d'lvoire



INDICATEUR
OBJECTIFS                          STRATEGIES                               ACTIVITES                   CALENDRIER               DE PERFORMANCE
sant6 mentale                                               realisation de 100% des
Infrastructures
1999         les activit6s de prise en charge des
cas sont int6gr6es dans le PMA
1.2 Amdliorer I'accessibilitA aux services
assurer le fonctionnement des structures                     100% des structures cibles
actuelles                                  1997 - 1999     rdhabilit6s
creer de nouvelles structures                              _80% de la population vit dans une
1997 - 2005     localit6 disposant d'une formation
sanitaire
mutualisation du risque maladie            1      0        _experiences pilotes r6alis6es
1997 -2005
mobilisation sociale                          1997
2. Am4llorer 1'efficacite du systeme 2.1 Ameliorer la gestlon du systeme
sanitaire                       sanitalre
renforcer les capacit6s institutionnelles                   prlse en compte des productions des
celiules de planification et de contr6le
1997 - 1999     dans la gestion du syst6me
deconcentration                                            -plans de d6veloppemnt sanitaires
1997 - 1999     disponibles au niveau r6glonal et
d6partemental
1997 - 1999  amelioration de la gestion des
structures d6concentr6es
d6centralisation                           1997 - 2005     _comptes sateellites disponibles
gestion 6conomique                         1997 - 2005     .comptes nationaux de la sant6
disponibles
information                                                                                              P  g
Ministere de la santl publique                                                     Page 3                                                             R6publlque de Cote d'lvoire



2.2 Promouvolr ia multisectorialit6 et le
partenarlat avec les ONG
renforcer la coordination avec les autres
secteurs                                   1997. 1999
developper le secteur prive
OBJECTIFS                          STRATEGIES                               ACTIVITES                   CALENDRIER               DE PERFORMANCE
developper le partenariat avec le secteur
associatif
3. Amaliorer la qualite des     3.1 Developper et utiliser de fagon optimale
prestatlons sanitaires          les  - -ources humaines
formations professionnelles iniliates                       -programmes de formation initiale
revis6es
formation continue                         1997 - 2005
maitise des effectifs                         1997
promotion des personnels
3.2 Promoivoir la recherche
developpement des sciences de la sante     1997 - 2000     _unite de recherche fonctionnelte
d6veloppement des scien-es sociales        1997 - 2000     -unM de recherche fonctionnelle
d6veloppement des sciences de la gestion   1997 - 2000     _unit6 de recherche fonctionnelle
3.3 d6veloppement des normes sanitaires et
de gestion du systeme
equipement et infrastucture                   1997         _normes en 6quipement et
infrastrucutures disponibles
gestion                                       1997         _normes de gestion disponibles
prestations sanitaires                        1997           normes de prestation disponibles
.- -    . d.l.- .pb qe.g  4                                                                                          R .-e  .-d.
Ministhre de la Sante publi<tue                                                    Page 4                                                             Republique do COte d'lvot,.






ANNEX 3
ANNEXES 5 THROUGH 18,
ANNEXES 20-a, 20-b AND 20-c,
AND ANNEX 22,
ARE NOT BEING DISTRIBUTED WITH THE MAIN REPORT;
THEY ARE IN THE PROJECT FILE AND AVAILABLE ON REQUEST.






GOVERNMENT HEALTH EXPENDITURES 1992-1999
(current CFAF millions)
Actual                              Budget                      Projected
1992          1993           1994           1995          1996           1997           1998          1999
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
Recurrent
Primary        12,915  32%   12,205  33%   14,455  33%   16,108  32%   18,326  35%   20,095  36%   22,412  38%   24,712  39%
Secondary       7,014  17%    6,509  18%    7,228  17%    8,159  16%    8,118  16%    8,639  16%    9,276  16%    9,998  16%
Tertiary        12,944  32%   11,573  31%   13,362  31%   15,471  31%   14,621  28%   15,398  28%   16,021  27%   16,703  26%
Admin./Trng     7,864  19%    6,708  18%    8,160  19%   10,410  21%   10,901  21%   11,471  21%   11,894  20%   12,246  19%
Total          40,737 100%  36,995 100%  43,205 100%   50,148 100%   51,966 100%   55,603 100%   59,603 100%   63,659 100%
Investment
Primary         1,902  18%    1,026  15%    3,566  22%    2,408  17%    3,569  17%    4,997  22%    7,246  28%   10,579  36%
Secondary       2,854  26%    1,640  24%    2,333  14%    9,333  65%   13,781  67%   13,800  60%   13,930  54%   13,257  46%
Tertiary        2,393  22%    1,315  20%    2,845  17%    2,000  14%    2,688  13%    3,494  15%    3,913  15%    4,382  15%
Admin./Trng     3,641  34%    2,743  41%    7,654  47%        583   4%       617   3%       842   4%      819   3%       800   3%
Total          10,790 100%    6,724 100%  16,398 100%   14,324 100%   20,655 100%  23,133 100%  25,908 100%   29,018 100%
Source: Ministere de la Sante Publique
_ x
o ->






COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN                                                                              Annex 19
Page 1 of 8
Cot d'lvoie
Projat de Dlveloppemont des Services do Sant IntSgrie (PDSSI)                                                                                               % Total
R6,uI6 des CoOl du Projet par Cornposantes                                                       (FCFA Mlillion)                (US$ Million)         %    Coubs de
Locale     Devise       Total    Locale DevIess  Total  Devises   Base
A. PAQUET MINIMUM D'ACTIVITES (PMA)
PMA - Soutien aux plans do devaloppement des dipartements sanitaires                    2,066.3    3,624.4     5,690.6     4.1      7 2    11 4      64        24
PMAtGS - Celule technique - Developpement d6partements sanitaires                        171.4       124.3       295.6     0.3      0.2     0.6      42         1
PMA/ONG - Appui aux hitietives des ONGs   *associations communautaires                  1,251 9       43.9     1,295.7     2.5      0 1     2.6        3        6
Soun Totl PAQUET MINIMUM D'ACTMTES (PMA)                                                  3,489.5     3,792.5    7,282.0     7.0      7.6    14 6       52       31
B. SANTE REPRODUCTIVE
PF - Planication familiabe dans 106 centres de sante publics                             740.1      1,3609     2,101.0     1.5      2.7     4.2      65         9
PFIONG-Expansiondesservice dePFdanssixcapitulesregionabls(AIBEF)                        1,511.7      527.2     2,038.8      30      1.1     4.1      26         9
PFIGS -    1     1veloppernr inatitutionnel at rantorcement de la gestion doe la PF      329.5       340.6       670.1     0.7      0.7      1 3      51        3
MSTISIDA - Renforcement d expansion des progrm. d'intervntion MST/SIDA i tous les niveaux  337.2     918.8     1,256.0     0.7      1 8     2.5      73         5
Sous Total SANTE REPRODUCTIVE                                                             2,918.5     3,147.5    6,065.9     5.8      6.3    12.1       52       26
C. PLANIFICATION ET GESTION
GS - Evaluation des capcithsinstitutionnelles et programme de d6veloppement du MSP       507 1       346.1       853.1     1.0      0.7      1 7     41         4
GS - Progrsmme de recherches-acons (PPF Nowien)                                          809.7        10.0       819.7      16      0.0     1.6        1        3
GS - Renforcement deo I gestbon rmancire d6centralise"                                    40.5        35.4        75.9     0.1      0.1     0.2      47
GS - Ranforcameft du parenuriat avec les communes,
lea associatbons communautaires SONG do sante                                           154.1        11.8       165.8     0.3      0.0     03        7         1
GS-Dfveloppeffentdescapacitdsdes Directionsr6gionales(8r.gions)                          517.3       442.3       959.6     1.0      0.9      19      46         4
PHARM- R6vision de protocolestMrapeutques nationaux etcatalogu des 6quivalences           77.9         9.0        86.9     0.2      0.0     0.2      10
PHARM - Renkornceent des services d'information pharmaceutique. y compris les prix        77.9        49.9       127.7     0.2      0.1     0.3      39         1
PHARM - Revision do la formation en prescription des medecins, infrmiers, pharnaciens
et wendeurs en officine                                                                 124.9        48.0       172.9     0.2      0.1     0.3      28         1
PHARM -Renforcemrentducontroledequalithdesm6dicaments                                     33.3       284.6       317.9     0.1      0.6     0.6      90         1
RH - RMorme du cursus des dtudes midicales at parameidicales suivant le PMA,
y compris formation au niveau des communautis                                           160.3       117.6       277.9     0.3      02      0.6      42         1
RH - Renforcement de la Direction des Ressources Humaines (DRH),
atmisea jourdesatrat6gimsdeplsnificationdurecnutemente dolaformation                    874.9       146.6     1,021.5     17       0.3     2.0      14         4
FIN - Integration des etudes recommandees suits a la Revue des Depenses Publiques
au programme do recherches-actions                                                      194.4       252.6       447.0     0.4      0.5     0 9      57         2
FIN - Programme d'eludes et dexp6riences-pilotes sur le innancement de la santA          155.1       175.1       330.3     0.3      0.4     0.7      53         1
Sous Total PLANIFICATION ET GESTION                                                       3,727.3     1,929.0    5,656.2     7.5      3.9    11.3      34        24
D. L'INFORMATION ET LA SANTE
SE - Mise an plac d'un systme national de surveillance pidibmiologique                   433.8       171.3      605.1      0 9      0.3     1.2      28         3
OBS-Developpementetoperationdel'Observatoiredes Beneficiaires                            169.5        42.1       211.6     0.3      0.1     04       20         1
IEC - Developpement d'une politique et stncture nationales d'IEC pour la sante (SNIEC)   795.2       414.4     1,209.6     1.6      0.8     2.4      34         5
SIG - Operationalisation du SIG et mise acoontribution aux decisions                     668.3       520.1     1,188 4     1.3      1.0     2.4      44         5
SIG/CS - Divaoppeent et mise en oeuvre de la Carte Sanitaire                             220.7       141.5       362.2     0 4      0.3     0.7      39         2
Sous Total L'INFORMATION ET LA SANTE                                                      2,287.6     1,289.2    3,576.8     4.6      2.6     7 2      36        15
E. GESTION DU PROJET
Gestion du Projet                                                                        345.2       185.5       530.7     0 7      0 4     1.1      35         2
Sous Total GESTION DU PROJET                                                               345.2       185.5       530.7     0.7      0.4     1 1      35         2
F. REMBOURSEMENT DU PPF
Remboursement du PPF                                                                     375.0           -       375 0     0 8       -      0.8       -         2
Sous Total REMBOURSEMENT DU PPF                                                            375.0           -       375 0     0.8        -     0 8        -        2
Total COUTS DE BASE                                                                      13,143 0    10,343 7    23,486.7    26 3    20 7    47.0       44      100
Impr6vus Physiques                                                                       516.4       8661      1,382 5     10       17      2 8      63         6
Imprevus sur les Prix                                                                    686.0       422 0     1,108 0     14       0.8     2 2      38         5
Total COUTS DU PROJECT                                                                   14,345.5    11,631.8    25,977.3    28.7    23.3    52.0       45      111



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 8
Cob d'lvoire
Projet de Developpement des Services de Sante Integres (PDSSI)
Comptes de Depense Recapitulation des Couts de Projet
% Total
(FCFA Million)               (USS Million)        %    Couts de
Locale    Devises     Total    Locale Devises  Total  Devises   Base
I. CoCts d'investissement
A. GENIE CIVIL
Constmution                                                    1,035.0     345.0    1,380.0      2.1     0.7     2.8     25        6
R1ehabilitation                                                1,663.3     554.4    2,217 7      3 3     1.1    4.4      25        9
Sous Total GENIE CIVIL                                           2,698.3     899.4    3,597 7      5.4     1 8     7.2     25        15
B. BIENS ET EQUIPEMENTS
Equipement Medical                                               77.3    3,094.7    3,172.0     0.2      6.2    6.3      98        14
Equipement do Bureau                                            533.9    1,656 9     2,190.7     1.1     3.3     4.4     76        9
Vihicules                                                           -    1,134.2    1,134.2        -     2.3     2.3    100         5
M6dicaments (racapitlisation des stocks)                          19.6      176.4      196.0     0.0     0.4     0.4     90         1
Divers                                                           27.1      168.8       195.9    0.1      0.3     0.4     86        1
Sous Total BIENS ET EQUIPEMENTS                                   657.9    6,231.0    6,888.9      1.3    12.5    13.8     90       29
C. FORMATION
Formation en RCI                                               1,990.9         -    1,990.9     4.0       -      4.0       -       8
Formation a lI'tranger                                              -      389.0      389.0       -      0.8     0.8    100        2
Sous Total FORMATION                                             1,990.9     389.0    2,379.8     4.0      0.8     4.8     16       10
D. ETUDES ET RECHERCHE
Etudes et recherche                                            1,370.8         -    1,370.8     2.7       -      2.7       -       6
E. SERVICES DE SPECIAUSTES
Consultants Intemationaux                                       297.8    1,221.3    1,519.1     0.6      2.4     3.0     80        6
Consultants nationaux                                           529.6          -      529.6      1.1      -      1.1       -       2
Sous-traitance                                                  656.9       72.5      729.4      1.3    0.1      1.5     10        3
Sous Total SERVICES DE SPECIALISTES                              1,484.4    1,293.8    2,778.2     3.0     2.6     5.6     47       12
F. AVANCE PPF                                                     375.0          -      375.0     0.8       -      0.8       -       2
G. SOUS-PROJETS
Sous-protets districts                                          125.0          -      125.0    0.3        -      0.3       -       1
Activites sante des ONG et communautes                          280.0          -      280.0      0.6       -     0.6       -        1
Crialion de centres sante communautaires                        788.8          -      788.8      1.6      -      1.6      -        3
Sous Total SOUS-PROJETS                                          1,193.8         -    1,193.8     2.4       -      2.4      -        5
Total Cofts d'investssement                                        9,771.1    8,813.2   18,584.3    19.5    17.6    37.2     47       79
11. CoObt Rlcuirent
A. PERSONNEL CONTRACTUEL ADDITIONNEL
Personnel conracuel supplimentaire                             1,326.3         -    1,326.3     2.7       -     2 7       -        6
B. COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITIQNNELS
Midicamentsetautresconsommablesm6dicaux                         135.7    1,220.9    1,35686     0.3     2.4     2.7      90        6
Entreien des biiments                                           101.8        2.0      103.8     0.2     0.0     0.2       2        -
Entetien et op6rafion des vehicules                             258.9       86.0      344.9     0.5     0.2     0.7      25        1
Entretion et opirabon des equipsment                            247.9       80.0      327.9     0.5     0.2     0.7      24        1
Frais de supervision                                            219.3          -      219.3     0.4       -     0.4       -        1
Foumitures de bureau et autres frais administratifs            1,082.0     141.6    1,223.7     2.2     0.3     2.4      12        5
Sous Total COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITIONNELS                      2,045.6    1,530.5    3,576.1    4.1     3.1     7.2      43       15
Total CoOt1 Rcurronts                                              3,371.9    1,530.5    4,902.5    6.7     3.1     9.8      31       21
Total COITS DE BASE                                               13,143.0   10,343.7   23,486.7    26.3    20.7    47.0     44       100
Imprevus Physiques                                                516.4      866.1    1,382.5     1.0      1.7    2.8      63        8
Imprivus sb Ms Prix                                               686.0      422.0    1,108.0     1.4     0.8     2.2      38        5
Totl COOTS Dtj PROJECT                                            14,345.5   11,631.8   25,977.3    28.7    23.3    52.0      45      111



ANNEX12
C8te d'ivoire                                                                                                                                                Page 3 of 8
Projet de Dbveloppement des Services de SantA Integres (PDSSI)
Composantes par Balileurs de Fond
(USS Million)                                                                                 Government        IDA             Total
Montant   %    Montant   %    Montant   %    Devises Locale
A. PAQUET MINIMUM D'ACTIVITES (PMA)
PMA - Soutien aux plans do dAveloppement des d6partements sanitaires                            3.3    25.0     9.8    75.0    13.1    25.2      8.3     4.8
PMA/GS - Cealule technique - D1veloppement d6partements sanitaires                              0.1    21.3     0.5    78.7      0.6     1 2     03      0.4
PMA/ONG -Appui aux initiatves des ONGs et associations communautaires                           0.6    20.8     2.2    79.2      2.7     5.2     0.1     2.6
Sous Total PAQUET MINIMUM DACTIVITES (PMA)                                                        4.0    24.1    12.5    75.9    16.5    31.7      8.7     7.8
B. SANTE REPRODUCTIVE
PF - Planification familiale dans 106 centres de sant6 publics-                                 1.2    25.4     3.5    74.6      4.8     9.2     3.1     1.6
PF/ONG - Expansion des services de PF dens six capitales regionales (AIBEF)                     1.4    29.7     3.2    70.3      4.6     8.8     1 2     3.4
PFIGS - Dvloppement institutionnel et renforcement d la gestion de la PF                        0.3    20.0     1 1    80.0      1.4     2 7     0.7     0.7
MSTISIDA-Rentbrcementetexpansiondesprogrammesd'interventionMST/SIDAAtousles niveaux             0.7    24.5     2.1    75.5      2.8     5.4    2.1      0.7
Sous Totbl SANTE REPRODUCTIVE                                                                     3.5    26.1    10.0    73.9    13.5    26.0      7.1     6.4
C. PLANIFICATION ET GESTION
GS - Evaluation des capacits institutionneles et programme de d6veloppement du MSP              0.5    26.9     1.4    73.1      1.9     3.7     0 8     1.2
GS - Programme d recherches-actions (PPF ivoinen)                                               0.3    17.7     1.4    82.3      1.7     3.3     0.0     1.7
GS - Renforcement de lagestion financiere dbcentralisee                                         0.0    24.6     0.1    75.4      0.2     0.3     0.1     0.1
GS - Rentorcement du partenaiat avec les communes.
ls associations communautaires etONG de sant6                                                  0.1    19.1     0.3    80.9      0.3     0.7     0.0     0.3
GS- Diveloppement des capecits des Directons rigionales (6 r6gions)                             0.6    26.3     1.6    73.7      2.2     4.2     1.0     1.2
PHARM - RviAon des protools rapeutiques nationaux et catalogue des Aquivaences                  0.0    23.7     0.1    76.3     0.2      0.4     0.0     0.2
PHARM - Renforcement des services dinformation pharmaceutique, y compns les prix                0.1    22.8     0.2    77.2     0.3      0.5     0.1     0.2
PHARM - Revision de   ormation en prescription des mbdecins, infimiers, pharmaciens
et vendeurs n officine                                                                         0.1    20.3     0.3    79.7     0.4      0.7     0.1     0.3
PHARM - Renforcement du controle do qualit des mdicaments                                       0.2    22.2     0.6    77.8     0.7      1.4     0.6     0.1
RH - Rabrme du cursus des Atudes m6dicales et param6dicale suivant lo PMA.
y comprts formaon au niveau des communautes                                                    0.1    16.0     0.5    84.0     0.6      1.1     0.2     0.3
RH - Rnforcemont de aDiDection des Resounres Humaines (DRH),
et mie * oaur des stratigies do plnication du recrutement et de Iformation                     0.4    17.0     1.8    83.0     2.2      4.2     0.3     1.8
FIN - Intigration des Abxds recommandees suite A l Revue des Depenses Publiques
au programne do recherc_es-aAions                                                              0.1    16.0     0.8    84.0     0.9      1.8     0.5     0.4
FIN - Programme dtudes et d'ience-plotes sur b financement de la santb                          0.1    18.1     0.6    81.9     0.7      1.3    0.4      0.3
Sous Totbl PLANFICATION ET GESTION                                                                2.6    21.0     9.7    79.0    12.3    23.6      4.2     8.0
D. LINFORMATION ET LA SANTE
SE - Mise en place dun systeme nraonal de surveilance  pidemiologique                           0.3    22.2     1.0    77.8     1.3     2.5      0.4     0.9
OBS - DAveloperent et oprbation de lObervatoire dos Bn ficiaires                                0.1    20.7     0.4    79.3     0.5     0.9      0.1     0.4
IEC - Dveloppement cuno politique astructure nationales d'IEC pour le sante (SNIEC)            0.4    14.4      2.2    85.6     2.6     5.0     0.9      1.7
SIG - Op0reaionalisation du SIG et mise a contribution aux dbicsions                           0.6    24.0      2.0    76.0     2.6     5.1      1.2     1.5
SIGICS - Diveloppement et mise en oeuvre de la Carte Sanitaire                                 0.2    21.6      0.6    78.4     0.8      1.5    0.3      0.5
Sous Total L'INFORMAATION ET LA SANTE                                                             1.6    20.1     6.2    79.9     7.8    15.0      2.9     4.9
E. GESTION DU PROJET
Gestion du Projet                                                                              0.3    25.0      0.9    75.0     1.2     2.2      0.4     0.8
F. REMBOURSEIENT DU PPF
Remboursement du PPF                                                                             -        -     0.8   100.0     0.8     1.5       -      0.8
Total Decaissement                                                                               11.9    23.0    40.0    77.0    52.0   100.0    23.3    28.7



ANNEX 19
C6te d'lvoire                                                                                                                   Page 4 of 8
Prolet de Developpoment des Services de Sant6 Integres (PDSSI)
Comptes de Depense par Balliours de Fond
(USS Million)                                           Government        IDA            Total
Montant   %    Montant   %    Montant   %    Devises Locale
I. Couts d'investissoment
A. GENIE CIVIL
Construction                                            0.9    30.0     2.2   70.0    3.1       6.0     0.8     2.3
Rehabilitation                                          1.5    30.0     3.6   70.0    5.1       9.9     1.3     3.9
Sous Total GENIE CIVIL                                    2.5    30.0     5.8   70.0    8.3    15.9       2.0     6.2
B. BIENS ET EQUIPEMENTS
Equipement M6dical                                      1.6   22.2      5.7   77.8      7.3    14.0     7.1     0.2
Equipement de Bureau                                    1.2    24.0     3.8   76.0    5.0       9.6     3.8     1.2
VWhicules                                               0.6    22.0     2.0   78.0    2.6       5.0     2.6       -
Mbdicaments (recapitlisaton des stocks)                 0.1    22.8     0.3   77.2      0.5     0.9     0.4     0.0
Divers                                                  0.1    23.1     0.3    76.9    0.4      0.9     0.4     0.1
SousTota IBENSETEQUIPEMENTS                               3.6    22.8    12.2   77.2    15.8    30.3    14.2      1.5
C. FORMATION
Formation en RCI                                        0.7    16.0     3.5   84.0    4.2    8.1          -     4.2
Formation a l'etranger                                  0.1    16.0    0.7   84.0    0.8        1.6     0.8       -
Sous Total FORMATION                                      0.8    16.0    4.2   84.0    5.0        9.6     0.8     4.2
D. ETUDES ET RECHERCHE
Etudes et recherche                                     0.5    16.0    2.4   84.0       2.9     5.5       -     2.9
E. SERVICES DE SPECAUWSTES
Consultants intemationaux                               0.5    16.0    2.6   84.0    3.1        6.1     2.5     0.6
Consultants nationaux                                   0.2    16.0     0.9   84.0    1.1    2.1          -     1.1
Sous-traitance                                          0.1     8.0     1.4   92.0      1.5     2.9     0.1     1.4
Sous Total SERVICES DE SPECIALISTES                       0.8    13.9     5.0   86.1      5.8   11.1      2.7     3.1
F. AVANCE PPF                                               -       -     0.8   100.0    0.8      1.5       -     0.8
G. SOUS-PROJETS
Sous-projets districts                                  0.1    20.0     0.2   80.0    0.3       0.5       -     0.3
Activites sante des ONG et communautes                  0.1    20.0     0.5   80.0    0.6       1.1             0.6
Creation de centres sante communautaires                0.3    20.0     1.3   80.0      1.6     3.2             1.6
Sous Total SOUS-PROJETS                                   0.5    20.0     2.0   80.0    2.5       4.8       -     2.5
Total CoOts d'lnvestsmesmnt                                 8.6   21.1    32.3   78.9   40.9    78.8    19.7   21.2
II. CoOts Rbcurrents
A. PERSONNEL CONTRACTUEL ADDITIONNEL
Personnel contractuel supplernentaire                   0.8    30.0     2.0   70.0    2.8       5.4       -     2.8
B. COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITIONNELS
MAdicaments et autres consommables m6dicaux             0.9    30.0     2.2   70.0    3.1       6.0     2.8    0.3
Entretien des biiments                                  0.1    30.0     0.2   70.0      0.2     0.5     0.0    0.2
Entretien et operation des vehicules                    0.2    30.0     0.6   70.0    0.8       1.5     0.2     0.6
Entretien et operation des equipement                   0.2    30.0     0.5   70.0    0.8       1.5     0.2    0.6
Frais de supervision                                    0.1    30.0     0.3   70.0    0.5       0.9       -     0.5
Foumitures de bureau et autres frais administratifs     0.9    30.0    2.0   70.0    2.8        5.5     0.3     2.5
Sous Total COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITlONNELS               2.5   30.0      5.8   70.0    8.2    15.8       3.5    4.7
Total CoOt. R6currents                                      3.3    30.0    7.7    70.0    11.0    21.2      3.5    7.5
Total D6calss.ment                                         11.9    23.0    40.0   77.0    52.0   100.0    23.3    28.7



ANNEX 19
Cote divoire                                                                                                                          Page 5 of 8
Projet de D6velopp.mrnt des Services de Santa lntigrs (PDSSI)
Composantes du Projet par Ann6e -- Totaux Y Compris lmpr6vus
(USS Million)
Totaux Y Compris Impr6vus
1997    1998    1999    Total
A. PAQUET ENIMUM D'ACTIVITES (PMA)
PMA - Soutien aux plans de developpement des d6partements sanitaires                     1.6     4.3     7.1    13.1
PMA/GS - CeNlule technique - Dveloppement departements sanitaires                        0.3     0.2     0.2     0.6
PMAlONG - Appui aux initiatives des ONGs et associations communautaires                  0.9     1.1     0.7     2.7
Sous Totbl PAQUET MINIMUM DACTIVITES (PMA)                                                 2.8     5.6     8.1    16.5
e. SANTE REPRODUCTIVE
PF - Planihcation familiale dans 106 centres de sante publics                            1.3     1.7     1.7     4.8
PF/ONG - Expansion des services do PF dans six capdales regionales (AIBEF)               2.6     1 1     0.9     4 6
PF/GS - Developpement institutionnel et renforcement de la gestion de la PF              0.6     0 5     0.3     1.4
MST/SIDA - Renforcement et expansion des programmes d'intervention MST/SIDA a tous les niveaux  1.4  0.7  0.7    2 8
Souis Totbl SANTE REPRODUCTIVE                                                             5.9     4.0     3.6    13.5
C. PLANIFICATION ET GESTION
GS - Evaluation des capacites institutionnelles et programme de developpement du MSP     0.4     0.6     0.9     1.9
GS - Programme de recherches-actions (PPF ivoirien)                                      0.6     0.6     0.6     1.7
GS - Renforcement de la gestion financiere decentralisee                                 0.0     0.1     0.0     0.2
GS - Renforcement du partenariat avec los communes,
los associations communautaires et ONG de sante                                         0.2     0.1     0.0     0 3
GS - D6veloppement des capacites des Directions regionales (6 regions)                   0.5     0.6     1.1     2 2
PHARM - Revision des protocoles therapeutiques nationaux et catalogue des equivalences   0.1     0.1     0.1     0 2
PHARM - Renforcement des services d'information pharmacoutique, y compris les prix       0.1     0.1     0.1     0 3
PHARM - Revision de la formation en prescription des medecins, infirmiers, pharmaciens
et vendeurs en officine                                                                 0.1     0 1     0.1     0.4
PHARM - Renforcoment du contr6le de qualite des medicaments                              0.2     0 3     0.3     0.7
RH - Reforme du cursus des etudes medicales et paramedicales suivant le PMA,
y compris formation au niveau des communautes                                           0.3     0.3     0.0     0 6
RH - Renforcement de la Direction des Ressources Humaines (DRH),
et mise a jour des strategies de plani1ication du recrutement et de la formation        0.6     0.8     0.7     2.2
FIN - Integration des etudes recommandees suite A la Revue des Depenses Publiques
au programme de recherches-actions                                                     0.3      0.3     0.3     0.9
FIN - Programme d'etudes et d'exp6rieneos-pilotes sur Is financement de la sante        0.2      0 1     0.4     0.7
Sous Total PLANIFICATION ET GESTION                                                        3.5     4.1     4.6    12 3
D. L'INFORMATION ET LA SANTE
SE - Mise en place d'un systeme national de surveillance epidemiologique                0.4      0.5     0.4     1 3
OBS - Developpement et operation de l'Observatoire des Beneficiaires                    0.2      0 1     0 1     0.5
IEC - Developpement d'une politique et structure nationales d'IEC pour la sante (SNIEC)  0.8     0.9     0.9     2 6
SIG - OperaSionalisation du SIG et mise a contribution aux decisions                     1.1     0.9     0.6     2 6
SIG/CS - Developpement et mise en oeuvre de la Carte Sanitaire                          0.5      0 2     0.1     0.8
Sous Total L'INFORMATION ET LA SANTE                                                       2.9     2.6     2.2     7 8
E. GESTION DU PROJET
Gestion du Projet                                                                       0 4      0.3     0 4     1.2
Sous Total GESTION DU PROJET                                                               0.4     0 3     0.4     1 2
F. REMBOURSEMENT DU PPF
Remboursement du PPF                                                                    0 8        -       -     0 8
Sous Total REMBOURSEMENT DU PPF                                                            0.8       -       -     0.8
Total COOTS DU PROJECT                                                                    16.4    16.6    18.9    52.0



ANNEX 19
Page 6 of 8
C6te d'lvoire
Projet de Developpement des Services de Sant6 Intfgr6s (PDSSI)
Comptes de Depense par Annee -- Totaux y Compris Impr6vus
(US$ Million)
Totaux Y Compris Impr6vus
1997    1998    1999    Total
I. CoOts d'investissement
A. GENIE CIVIL
Construction                                                     2.3      0.5     0.3      3.1
Rehabilitation                                                    1.2     1.7     2.3     5.1
Sous Total GENIE CIVIL                                             3.5      2.2     2.5      8.3
B. BIENS ET EQUIPEMENTS
Equipement Medical                                               1.7      2.5     3.1     7.3
Equipement de Bureau                                             1.9      1.6     1.5      5.0
Vehicules                                                        0.8      0.8     1.0      2.6
Medicaments (recapitlisation des stocks)                         0.0      0.2     0.3      0.5
Divers                                                           0.1      0.1     0.2      0.4
Sous Total BIENS ET EQUIPEMENTS                                    4.6      5.2     5.9    15.8
C. FORMATION
Formation en RCI                                                 1.2      1.5     1.6     4.2
Formation A l'tranger                                           0.3      0.3     0.3     0.8
Sous Total FORMATION                                                1.4     1.7     1.8      5.0
D. ETUDES ET RECHERCHE
Etudes et recherche                                              1.3      0.8     0.8     2.9
E. SERVICES DE SPECIALISTES
Consultants Internationaux                                        1.2     1.1     0.8      3.1
Consultants nationaux                                            0.3      0.4     0.4      1.1
Sous-traitance                                                   0.6      0.5     0.4      1.5
Sous Total SERVICES DE SPECIALISTES                                 2.1     2.1     1.6      5.8
F. AVANCE PPF                                                      0.8        -       -      0.8
G. SOUS-PROJETS
Sous-projets districts                                             -        -     0.3      0.3
Activites sante des ONG et communaut6s                            0.1     0.2     0.3      0.6
Creation de centres sante communautaires                         0.7      0.8     0.2      1.6
Sous Total SOUS-PROJETS                                             0.7     1.0     0.8      2.5
Total CoOts d'Investissement                                         14.4    13.0    13.5    40.9
II. CoOts R6currents
A. PERSONNEL CONTRACTUEL ADDITIONNEL
Personnel contractuel suppl6mentaire                             0.5      1.0     1.3     2.8
B. COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITIONNELS
Medicaments et autres consommables medicaux                      0.6      1.1     1.5      3.1
Entretien des batiments                                          0.0      0.1     0.2     0.2
Entretien et operation des vehicules                             0.1      0.3     0.5     0.8
Entretien et operation des equipement                            0.1      0.2     0.4     0.8
Frais de supervision                                             0.2      0.1     0.2      0.5
Fournitures de bureau et autres frais administratifs             0.6      0.9     1.3      2.8
Sous Total COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITIONNELS                         1.5     2.7     4.1     8:2
Total CoCits Recurrents                                               2.0     3.7     5.4    11.0
Total COOTS DU PROJECT                                               16.4    16.6    18.9    62.0



ANNE( 19
Page 7 of 8
COtt dlwvom
Projot do D6v*toppomt des Services do Sant6 Inltgrda (PDSSI)
RPpar'Uon des Comptes de D prnce
(USS Mllion)
CoOts de
Base +    kmp.
Impr6vus Phys. at
Sur In    Imp.
Cotas de BaE.           Imprivus Physiques          tmpr6vux sur les Prix    Total Y Compris Impr6vus   Prix des  Pux our
CoOts de   Imp.
Devl"s Locale       Total  Devises  Locale      Total  Devises Locabl      Total  Devises Locale      Total   Bass    Phys.
I. Codtl dInvostilosent
A. GENIE CML
Conakudion                                           0.7     2.1        2.8     0.1     0.2        0.3     0.0      0.1        0.1     08      23         31       2.8      0.3
Rehablillabon                                        1.1     3.3        4.4     0.1     0.3        0.4     0.1      0.2        03      1.3     3.9        5.1      4.7      0.5
Sou Tota GENtECML                                      1.8     5.4        7.2     0.2     0.5        0.7     0.1      0.3        0.3     20      6.2        8.3      7.5      0.8
B. BENS ET EQUtPEMENTS
Equiplent6dical                                      6.2     0.2        6.3     0.6     0.0        0.6     0.3     0.0         0.3     7.1     0.2        7.3      6.6      0.7
Equipnontbde um                                      3.3     1.1        4.4     0.3     0.1        0.4     0.1      0.1        0.2     3.8     1.2        50       4.5      05
Vdhlcuos                                             2.3       -        2.3     0.2       -        0.2     01         -        0.1     2.6       -        2.6      2.4      0.2
M      _dcanent (recaoUission des stocks)           0.4      0.0        0.4     0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0         0.0     0.4     0.0        0.5      0.4      0.0
DIwes                                               0.3      0.1        0.4     0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     04      01         04       0.4      0.0
ScumTotaIlUENSETECAUIPEMENTS                          12.5     1.3       13.8     1.2     0.1        1.4     0.5      0.1        0.6    14.2     1.5       15.8     14.3       1.4
C. FORIATION
Fomdon  nRCt                                          -      4.0        4.0       -       -          -       -      0.2        0.2       -     4.2        4.2      4.2        -
FommionrOtur                                        0.8        -        0.8       -       -          -     0.0       -         0.0     0.8       -        0.8      0.8
Sous Tota FORMATION                                    0.8     4.0        4.8       -       -          -     0.0      0.2        0.2     0.8     4.2        5.0      5.0
D. ETUDES ET RECHERCHE
Ehxdoatrofchdrche                                     -      2.7        2.7       -       -          -       -      0.1        0.1       -     2.9        2.9      2.9
E. SERVICES DE SPECIAUSTES
Cona sblntatntaonaux                               .2.4      0.6        3.0       -       -                0.1      0.0        01      2.5     0.6        3.1      31
Consulatsnaabonix                                     -      1.1        1.1               -          -       -      0.1        0.1       -     1.1        I1       1.1
Soustisnce                                          0.1      1.3        1.5       -       -          -     00      0.1         0.1     0.1     1.4        1.5      1.5
Sous Total SERVICES DE SPECIAUSTES                     2.6     3.0        5.6       -                  -     0.1      0 1        0.2     2.7     3.1        5.8      5.8
F. AVANCE PPF                                           -      0.8        0.8       -       -          -       -     0.0         0.0       -     0.8        08       0.8
G. SOUS-PROJETS
Sous-projoa disbicts                                  -      0.3        0.3       -       -          -             0.0         0.0             0.3        0 3      0 3
Acivit sante des ONG etcornmunautes                   -      0.6        0.6               -          -              0.0        0.0       -     0.6        0 6      0.6
Cr6abon de c.nlssanl conanunautaires                  -      1.6        1.6       -       -          -       -      0.1        0.1       -     1.6        1.6      1.6
Sous Total SOUS-PROJETS                                 -      2.4        2.4       -       -          -             0.1         0.1       -     2.5        2 5      2.5
TotalCoOdtdinvostiosmont                                17.6    19.5       37.2     1.4     0.7        2.1     0.7      1.0        1.7    197    21.2        409      38.7      2.2
II. CoOt R6currents
A. PERSONNEL CONTRACTUEL ADDITIONNEL
Personnel contractud suppl6mentaire                   -      2.7        2.7       -       -          -       -     0.2         0.2       -     2.8        2 8      2.8        -
B. COUTS OPERATIONNELS ADDITIONNELS
M4dca,nnts et utres consommables medicaux           2.4      0.3        2.7     0.2     0.0        0.3     01      0.0         01      2.8     0 3        31       2 8      0 3
Entretien des bimeonts                               0.0     0.2        0 2     0.0     0.0        0.0     0 0     0 0        0 0      0.0     0 2        0.2      0 2      0.0
Entretien et opration des vehicules                 0 2      0 5        0.7     0.0     0.1        0.1     0.0     0 0        0.0      0 2     0.6        0 8      0 7      0.1
Entreten et operation des equipement                0.2      0.5        0 7     0.0     0.0        0.1     0.0     0.0         0.0     0.2     0.6        0 8      0.7      0.1
Frais de supervision                                  -      0.4        0.4       -       -          -       -     0.0         0 0       -     0.5        0 5      0.5        -
Foumitures de bureau et autres frais administralits  0 3     2 2        2.4     0.0     0 2        0.2     0 0     0.1        0 1      0.3     2 5        2.8      2.6      0.3
Sous Total COUTS OPER. ADDITIONNELS                      31      4.1        7.2     0.3     0.4        0.7     0 1     0.3         0.4     3.5     4.7        8.2      7 5      0.7
Total CoOtl R6currents                                   3.1     6.7        9.8     0.3     0.4        0.7     0.1     0.4         0.6     3.5     7.5       110      10.3      0.7
Total                                                   20.7    26.3       47.0      1.7     1.0        2.8     0.6     1.4        2.2    23.3    26.7       52.0     49.1       2.9



ANNEX 19
Page 8 of 8
C6te d'lvoire
Projet de Developpement des Services de Sante Integres (PDSSI)
Locale/Devises/lmp6ts par les Bailleurs de Fond
(US$ Million)
Government            IDA                Total
Montant     %      Montant     %      Montant    %
I. Devises               3.9      16.8      19.4     83.2      23.3      44.8
II. Locale               8.0      28.0      20.7      72.0     28.7      55.2
Total Projet               11.9     23.0      40.0      77.0     52.0     100.0



Annex 21
Page 1 of I
Disbursement Proflle
Project
Estimated Disbursements                 Profile
Country Profile
IDA Fiscal                                                       A/
Years and      By semester    Cumulative        Project       (all sectors)
Semestem      (USS Million)    (US$ Million)     rA)             rA)
1997       2             3.3            3.3           8.0%           0.0%
1998       1             3.3           6.5           16.0%           7.5%
2            6.5           13.0           33.0%          16.0%
1999       1             6.4           19.4          49.0%          27.0%
2            6.4           25.8           65.0%          39.0%
2000       1             7.1           32.9          82.0%           51.0%
2            7.1           40.0          100.0%          60.0%
2001       1                                                         71.0%
2                                                        77.0%
2002       1                                                         84.0%
2                                                        89.0%
2003       1                                                         93.0%
2                                                        97.0%
2004       1                                                         99.5%
2                                                       100.0%
/ Source: MIS - StwSd Disbusment Profile - 818W19W






Annex 23
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDICATORS FOR MONITORING AND EVALUATION
This annex sets out the planned global indicators for monitoring and evaluation of
the Integrated Health Services Development Project. It is the beginning of an operational
monitoring and evaluation program.  The program  should encompass both global
indicators, and more detailed indicators, which should be monitored by those responsible
for executing the specific components. The global indicators were confirmed during
negotiations on the proposed IDA Credit. The next step is for the Cote d'lvoire Project
Coordinator and those responsible for Project execution to give each global indicator
firther precision, to review the proposed detailed indicators (see the Appendix to this
Annex for proposals), to determine the periodicity of collecting new data, to decide on the
operational modalities for data collection, and to initiate collection - where necessary - of
additional base-line data. These tasks need to be completed before project execution can
effectively begin, and consultant assistance to the MSP is planned in this area. The final,
operational version of the monitoring and evaluation program, including particularly the
component-specific indicators, should be included in the project execution manual to be
completed as a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Inputs/process
I.    Timely disbursement of Project fimds from the Government and IDA.
2.    Timely recruitment, and retention, of quality staff hired for Project execution at all
levels.
3.    Timely procurement of goods and services financed by IDA and the Government.
4.    Quarterly letter to stakeholders on the progress and problems of the Project.
5.    Annual feedback from  executing authorities on support from  the Project
Coordinator and other central staff with baseline to be established following
launch workshop.
6.    Satisfactory annual Project work program preparation and review process and
results.



Annex 23
Page 2 of 2
Outputs/Outcomes
1.    Gradual integration of health sector services, with consistent national standards
established and applied.
2.    Increased availability and development of the utilization of district health services,
especially the PMA Program.
3.    Increased availability and improved utilization of reproductive health services.
4.    Strengthened management systems, for budgets, for financial flows and accounts,
for human resources planning and management, for overall planning and
information management, for internal and external communication with EEC.
5.    MSP budgets and expenditure growing in real per capita terms, with particular
reference to (a) PMA and health district development plans, (b) non-salary
recurrent inputs, with an updated and agreed set of monitoring indicators in active
and common use by the MSP and the Ministry of the Economy and Finance.
ctc
W:\AEE\SAR\ANNEX3.DOC
May 31, 1996 11:38 AM



Annex 23
Appendix I
Page 1 of 5
....................................................................... .................................................................. ....... .................................................................. ....... .................................................................... ..................... ............................................. .......
Input Indicators                                     Process                                              Output Indicators                                    Outcome
Indicators                                                                                                Indicators
PMA-Soutien aux plans de                           No. of plans financed                                                                                     No. of plans executed, on
Developpement.                                                                                                                                               schedule.
Increase in hlth. facility cap.
utilization in districts and facil.
concerned
Ratings of concerned districts
and facilities based on baseline
.......................................................................    ..........          .........................................................f...........................    .........................................................................
PMAJGS Cellule technique-    No. of field visits                                                                                                             No. of plans prepared                                Level of acceptance of PMA by
D6veloppement depart.                                                                                                                                                                                             other prjts.
Feedback from regions and
districts on support by cell.
I
# of districts with hlth. staff                    I
_____________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                             ____________                   _ _ _ _ _      trained    on   the    ob bytech,        el
PMA/ONG-Appui aux                                  Establish funding mechanism                          # of apps. for NGO service                           #, size, and total financial                         # of additional people served
initiatives des ONGs (y                            rules.                                               contractss.                                          volume of service contracts with
compris associations                                                                                                                                         NGOs                                                 # of community operated health
communautaires et                                  # of regional NGO units                              # of regional info. mtg. with                                                                             centers functioning
collectivites locales)                             established                                          NGOs                                                 # of regional NGO studies
completed
# of community associations
formed                                                                                                           _
PF-Plantification fam. dans                        # of hlth. centers rehabilitated for                                                                      # of doctors trained in FP                           Chngs. in fertility rates
106 centres de sante pub.                          FP
# of mid-wives andc nurses                           Chngs in desired # of children
# of sites provided with required                                                                         trained in FP
equipment                                                                                                                                                      Chnge in contracept. prevalence
# of social workers trained in                       rates
IEC/FP
# of sites with functioning FP
section
................ ,   ................................................... - ......................t.........  .........................................................................



Annex 23
Appendix I
Page 2 of 5
W   .....i      ... ................ ...............I.............................  .......................................... ..............  ... .................................. ............... ....................... .........................................................................
PP/ONG-Epansion des                # of temp. doctors working in         # of PF contacts in new clinics.    # of regional offices const.
services de PF                      regional clinics.
# of PF contacts in reg. clinics.    # of regional offices rehabed.
# of temp. mid-wives working in
e.ia clinic                                                              # of cliznics constructed
PF/GS-Developpement Inst. et  Wrkshp. to elaborate PF mods.    # of sessions to inform  comm.    #                    of mid-wives and nurses
renforcement de Is gestion                                               leaders                              trained in [EC
Wrkshp. to elaborate IEC/PF
mod.                                 It of sessions to inform journalists # of comm. hlth. agents trained
in IEC
# of sessions to inform decision-
makers                               # of supervisors trained to mng.
PF clinics
MS.i SiDARenforceinent et   Equip for direction exec and              Develop .of sensitization progs.    # of women contaed                    HIV infection rates
expansion des programmes            reg. coordination                    for:
-agriculture,                        # of farmers contacted
# of condoms purchases               -higher ed.,
-military                            # of students contacted
Amnt. of medication for STD
purchased                                                                 # of military contacted
Amnt. of reagents purchased                                               # of personnel trained in IEC
Execution of an external eval.                                            Effective use of NGOs as part of
and reprowamming                                                          nat. prog.
GS-Evaluation des capacites    No. of follow-up activities agreed  Effective use of local and int'l           No. of follow-up activities          Anon. feedback from staff on
institutionnelles                                                        cons. as advisors and not doers    implemented                            team bldg. and ability to work in
Recruit. and effective deployment                                                                              task teams across org, units
of office techn. resource person
Increase in morale and
prof.commit. among MSP staff
Changes in MSP skill profile
consistent with 1996 reorg. and
MSP policy letter for PDSSI
External assessment, after 3
years, of effective use and cost of
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . . .. _ _ _ _ _ _ . . . _ _ _ _ _. _ _ _. _  _ _ _. _ _ _ _ _ _ . . . . . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   o ffice   tech



Annex 23
Appendix I
Page 3 of 5
.......................................................................    .............................. ...........................................  ........................ ..................... ...........................   .... .................................. .....................................
GS-Programme de recherche-  # of Studies approved and                                                                                                # & quality of studies produced,  Changes made in MSP Act. as a
actions                                         financed.                                                                                           uas__   _ __    by external reviewer.   result of action-research program
GS-Renforcement de la                                                                              No of field supervision visits by   # of workshops held.                                             Strengthening of financ. mgmt in
gestion financiere decentr.                                                                        DAF and other tech. staff                                                                            specific, identified sites, as
perceived by DAF and other
observers
GS-Renforc. du partenariat    # and quality of wrkshps held                                                                                                                                             Results of Obs. des beneficiares
avec les communes, etc                          with reg. and district staff to help                                                                                                                    field surveys showing perception
them train COGES, with social                                                                                                                          of increased partnerships among
wrkrs. on comm. partnerships,                                                                                                                          those concerned.
and with mayors on partnerships
for better health
GS-Dveloppement des                             Timely delivery of PDSSI-                                                                                                                               Feedback from DSC tech. cell
capacites de Directions Reg.    financed goods to be furnished                                                                                                                                          and district medical officers
Timely recruit, of add. staff for
_ _._ ____._____._____._                 __    re._ion   concerned
PHARM-Revision des                                                                                                                                   Timely Completion and                              Consistency of STD and other
protocoles therap. nationaux                                                                                                                         Validation                                         treat.
P~~~~~~~~.. . . . . . . . . .    Renfo.e.et.de   ......................... ......... ............. ... ............... . . . .   ....-- -..-. . . . . .. . . . . .   ............... . . . . .   ..... . . . .   .. . . . . . .   ,1   .. .. . ..meiy. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . . c .. .. . ion.. .. . .. .of.. ... .i. .. . .st.. .. . .bu.. .
PHARM-Renfor-cement des                                                                                                                              Timely production of 1 st bulletin  Perceived quality and utility of
services d'inform. pharmac.                                                                                                                                                                             bulletin, to pharm. & other uses.
s......d'infor...... a.   .................   .........    ...........   ................................ ......................... ..   .....................................................................I..... .......................... . . .. .    ............. . .. . ... . . .. . . I . .. . . . ... ... .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . .. .. ..
PHARM- Revision de la                           Timely completion of curric.                                                                         # of doctors, nurses and pharm.   Changes in prescrip. practices,
formation en prescrip. des                                                                                                                           trained; initial train., compl.
mnedecins..training, and contin. ed.
mede .. .... .. .s.. .. . ... .. . .. .. .. . .. . .. ... ... ... . .. ... .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. ... . ... .. . ................,, ..........................................................................    ...... .. . ......................   ........ .. .. . .. . .. . ... . .. ....................................................................
PHARM-Renforc. du contr6le  Timely acquis. and delivery of                                                                                                                                              External evaluation of quality
de qualitk des m,dic.                  a                                                                                      pcontrol, after 3 years
RH-Reforme du cursus des                        Timely exec. of studies preparing  # of trainers trained for INFAS    Revised curricula consistent with  Extent of support for revised
etudes medicales et paramed.   revised curric.                                                                                                       MSP and int'l visions of approp.  curricula by teaching staff and
medic. personnel for RCI in 21st  MSPpolicymakers
Effective use of new curric.                                                                        century.
through reinforc. of INFAS and
other.
Seminar to determin. 'profile de
competence'of doctors
Seminar to evaluate med. prog.
Mths. of int'l consul. used for
_   reform. med. curric.



Annex 23
Appendix I
Page 4of 5
RH-Renfor. de ia DRH                                                               Census of DRH personnel                    Reconc. of DRH records with                More balanced distnbution of
Develop. of personnel data base    those of Fonction Public.                         MOH personnel
Develop. of staffing norms
Develop. of in-service trng.              Redistrib. of staff
guidelines
...     .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .  #.o f.stc.....................................................................e...........................................  .  ........................................................................ #
FlN-lnitegration des etudes              Timely prep. of action plan based                                                    Follow-through on action plan
recommandees                             on wblic expen. review                                                                                                                       ____==__...._.....
FIN-Programme d'etudes et                Final definition of high quality                                                     Timely exec. of wrk. prog.,                Establish. of analytic foundation,
d'experiences-pilote                     work prog.                                                                           including pilots.                          and begin. of consensus, for
expansion of private hlth.
Strengthening of MSP capac. for                                                                                                 insurance for low-risk,
analticisor  onhith. finance.                                                                                              catastrophic events.
~~~~~~~~~~nyi..workon.hlh.f.nne. ............  ...............   .......................... ..  ... ......   .................................................    ........................ ........................ .  .................  ........I.......  ..... .......................
S-Mse en place d'un .Prep of a national epi plan                                                                              Ranking of fully prepared disease Establishment of a functionung
systeme national de surv.                                                                                                     control prog. for efficiency and           surveillance and control system
epidemiol.                                                                          Feasibility study and plan for an    cost effectiveness.                             for endemic diseases and diseases
epi info. netwvrk.                                                                   of high epidemic risk
Study on the costs of an epi sys.
________________________                     _ ______________________                Deve..   of  .pi  .oft~r                       __ _ D evel_of_epi_softwar
OBS-Ieveloppement et                     Establishment & equipping of an   Execution and analysis of Ist                      Publication of Ist quantitative            Improved client satisfaction as
operation de l'Obs. des Benef   Obs. office.                                        quantitative study.                       study.                                     measured by obs.
Recruitment of required person.    Execut. and anal. of 1st                          Publication of Ist qualitative             Improved utilization rates
qualitative study.                        study
Establishment of MSP oversight
committee.                                Revision of study protocols                Pub./Diffusion of subsequent
before execution of subsequent             studies.
studies.
Modif. of proced. at prirnary
# of dissemination seminars               service level in light of study
__________________________________  ________________________________________________________________________   results.



Annex 23
Appendix I
Page 5 of 5
IEC-D   veloppement et                    Rehab. of space for regional iEC    Study of current IEC capacity                      # of MOH personnel trained in               Improved impact of IEC as
operation de l'Observatoire               offices.                                                                               IEC outside of RCI                          measured by impact studies
# of pre-tests of EEC messages
Purchase of equip. for reg. off.                                                       # of MOH personnel trained in
# of IEC interventions developed   IEC in RCI
Purchase of equip. for central.            and executed
off.                                                                                      of personnel from  other
Develop new curriculum  for trng.  ministries trained
Priortize health prog. needing             # of IEC campaigns
IEC                                        implemented.
# of IEC impact studies
~~~~~~~~........................................   ..........................  ..... ........................................... ......................................................................  .... ...................... . ............... ... .  ........... ....... ....................................................................
SIG-Operationalisation du                 # of distnct SIG offices rehabed.   # of software trng. progs.                         # of people receiving trng in SIG    Improved utilization of SIG  info.
SIG  et mise i contribution                                                          developed.                                  operation.                                  at all levels of system  measured
# of district SIG off. equipped.                                                                                                   by yearly evaluation
# of districts with 100%  complete  # of people receiving software
Completion of study evaluating             reporting                                   training
information needs of MSP.
# of districts with on-time rptg.          Completion of annual report
Completion of eval. of SIG                                                             based on SIG  info.
system.                                    # of districts connected to central
info. system.
Purchase of installation of central
..g d e.................................  .                         ................................ ........................ ...........................................  .....    .................... ..............  .......  ..  ............................    ........  .........  ...........................................  ..........
SlGtCS-eveloppement et                    Purchase of necessary equipment   Completion of FSB studies                            Up-to-date carte sanitaire                  Improved spatial planning by
mise en oeuvre de Ia Carte                for regional offices                                                                                                               MSP
San.                                                                                 Completion of HG  studies                   Transfer of necessary skills to
Purchase of necessary equipment                                                        Ivoirian staff
for national offices..                     Completion of CHR study
R... Sular~ transmittal of new info.
Gest.on du. Pr.jet                        Timeyi  e c            t and retention   i Execution of annual PDSSI work   Timely execution and, revision of  Perceived effectiveness of Pjt.
of staff at all levels                     program  review, with workshop    plans, where necessary.                              Admnin., in the minds of
stakeholders (Cabinet, executing
Timely completion of penodic               agenc., core agencies of finance,
__ rpts. for MSP and Bank.                 planning, personnel.)
atc
W:\AEE\S\AR MN23APP.DOC
May 31, 1996 11:44 AM






Annex 24
Page I of I
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.     The Integrated Health Services Development Project touches on so many different
aspects of health services, and has such a large volume of studies, training and technical
assistance that a relatively high level of supervision will be required. For this reason
arrangements have been made to pre-program trust fund resources to complement the Bank's
allocation of budget resources for supervision.
2.     The following is a rough schedule of supervision missions, with likely issues and
mission composition:
Date             Probable Issues                         Mission Composition
October 1996     Project launch workshop;                Task team: TM (mgt. specialist); family
first year work plans;                 planning and AIDS specialists; project
1997 MOH budget                        assistant; disbursement officer; local
procurement assistant; public health
specialist; sociologist, nutrition specialist
March 1997       1996 budget outturn; revised MOH PIP;    TM, sociologist, IEC specialist
follow-up on public expenditure review;
action research program; NGO and IEC
components
October 1997     Second year work plans;                 TM, public health specialist, family planning
1998 MOH budget;                       and AIDS specialists, local procurement
stock-taking on action-research program  assistant, social research consultant
March 1998       1997 budget outturn; outturn from first  TM, IEC specialist, sociologist, health
year work program; status of IEC and   finance specialist, nutrition specialist
NGO components; nutrition; national
health accounts and health care finance
issues
October 1998     Preparation of comprehensive project    TM, public health specialist, AIDS and
review; 1999 MOH budget; third year    family planning specialists, sociologist, IEC
work program; design and schedule of   specialist; project assistant
next Bank PHN operation (including TOR
for preparatory studies still needing
definition)
March 1999       1998 budget outturn; second year work   TM, health finance specialist, M&E
program outturn; preparation of next Bank   specialist, project assistant
PHN operation; outcome of
comprehensive project review
October 1999     Year 2000 MOH budget; appraisal of next   TM, project assistant, public health specialist,
Bank PHN operation;                    nutrition specialist, AIDS and family
planning specialists, sociologist, lEC
specialist; health finance specialist






I






3  T.o g0iO,...''.0            1                                   4-                                               2'                                                               BRD 26952
-'.               rO 6=mcLo   MALI   f*'           Tj 'o n
\        ~                  '--'--X 1/  _     L         { )    ~8~  . rB U R K I N A   FASO
r Lo-d        t 0       T l   ek -.        '~'A-         \    W lell6         LDones  s - <
Lnt2Be9e\>          -    /T.oO go-90g;0 g                                                                           COTE   D'IVOIRE                                            10t
I       -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
A-                                                               PA~~~~~~~~~~PVED ROADS
J \-?,  i  ;    ''    (   <   1   t>>  a  \ aK=                                                                                                                      EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS
RAILWAY
GUNE                     rTo-S>svt)                 >0D                                                                            T. B.ol *.   NATIONAL CAPITAL
,0   DEPARTmENT CAPITALS
0    OTHER TOWNS
N N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~tINTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
t OTHER AIRPORTS
b.*Dbkoof'1    PORTS
* Toobo                                                                                                                                         -~~~~~~~"~~> yRIVERS
to                                                        KotiOlit<                                     Bo,rdookou    'I -- 'DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T . N  -k
Mo                           V...       ,                 S                                                                                                          20  4   60  80  100 120 KILOMETERS
) /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)T -
Th. bo-dor,-, -olo-, d---rrro,o, -cd -y other-of-rc-
,ho.- o- h,, cop do -o-ipLy, o- th. por .f Tho World Bok G-op,
Doeliooo   '          r"                                                              *                   co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.y,,dg-rcertohe IN.[1 OOtS f -oy terrtory, or aYeoocret
Kotob     A      o A             G H'A N A   '                        occepc.c-o        '    '-h'o'd--. 
~T     ubele  A                                                                                                                         _I      _       _      _n      _       _      _-      _       _      _ L' 
L I B E R I A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y- 0Aepe~~~~~~~~~I'
- -  I  I  SoAbro                                                       00-r  L                   ICE       SENEGAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L -           URIN
Any6mo--                                                                                  roh
21                                       I                                                        >''GUINEO 2"   ,,~~~~~~~~~   *           ("~~~-"           N  * *OirrerUINE
c,b                                                                                                                      F,         NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To~rcle~:--7RUKN 
iDoboo ~~~~~bpd~~~.'  Aboitno        to.                               0  ~  I   0   R        Gt.ANAI~
OcocdBnrdbyr                           ~~~~~~~Gulf of Gui'nea                                                                         LIER"1
- (.   ToboA                                                                                        t.                                   {          --r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
9          0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                   lo'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
14'                                                                                   JU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15607 IVO
Type: SAP,



