




The World Bank                                               1818 H Street N .W.             (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington, D .C.   20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        U.S .A .                        Cable Address : INDEVAS




                                                                                       November 12, 1998 -       -51

                                                                                 ~~ ~, srg~;J "         r /
          H. E. N'Goran Niamien
          Minister of Economy and Finance
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          B .P. V 125
          Abidjan
          Republic of Cote d'Ivoire


                 Re:     Credit No . 2893 IVC (Integrated Health Services Development Project)
                 Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement


          Excellency:

                 We refer to : (1) the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement), dated July
           11, 1996, between the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire (the Borrower) and the International
          Development Association (the Association); and (ii) the letter, dated February 18, 1998
          by which the Borrower has requested the Association to provide funding for the
          carrying out of a general census .

          Pursuant to the discussions held between the representatives of the Borrower and the
          Association, we are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your
          Government's request and proposes to amend the Agreement as follows :

          A.     The name of the Project is amended to read "Integrated Health Services
          Development and Census Project" and all references in the Agreement shall be to the
          Project, as renamed .

          B.    Article I

          or bothParagraph
          1 .              (b) of Section 1 .02 is amended to read: "Special Account" means either
                   the accounts referred to in Section 2 .02(b) of this Agreement" .




                                      RCA 248423 . fa WUI 64145 0 FAX (202) 477-6391





                                           - 2 -


2or.  Paragraph (c) of Section 1 .02 is amended to read : "Project Account" means either
    both the accounts referred to in Section 3 .02 of this Agreement" .

3"implementation (u) of Section 1 .02 is amended by inserting after the words
  .   Paragraph
                 of the Project", the following phrase : "(other than Part E thereof)" .

4.    The dot "." at the end of paragraph (w) of Section 1 .02 is replaced by a semi-
colon";" and the following new paragraphs are added in Section 1 .02 of the
Agreement :

"(x)  'INS' or 'Institut National de la Statistique' means the National Statistical
Institute of the Borrower, established and operating as a State corporation pursuant to
the Borrower's Decree No. 96-975 of December 18, 1996 ;

(y)   `INS Implementation Manual' means the manual outlining the procurement,
disbursement, performance indicators and other arrangements for the implementation of
Part E of the Project;

(z)   'Action Plan' means the action plan prepared by INS and to be approved by the
Borrower, setting forth detailed measures to be implemented by INS to ensure full
accessibility of its data bases to the public within the territory of the Borrower ;

(aaa) 'BTPR' or 'Bureau Technique Permanent du Recensement' means the Permanent
Technical Office for the Census established within INS whose attributions are specified
in subparagraph I (b) of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement ; and

(bbb)'CPSR' or 'Comite de Pilotage et de Suivi du Recensement' is the committee
responsible for the monitoring of the census, whose attributions are specified in
subparagraph 1 (b) of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement ."

C.    Article II

      Section 2 .02(b) is amended to read as follows :

"(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in CFA
Francs in CAA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association :

(i) a special deposit account, for purposes of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
(hereinafter referred to as Special Account A) ; and

(ii)  a special deposit account, for purposes of Part E of the Project (hereinafter
referred to as Special Account B) .





                                            -3 -


Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."

D.   Article III

1 .   Section 3 .01 (a) is amended to read as follows :

"(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, and D of
the Project through MSP, and Part E of the Project through INS, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, health and
demographic practices, and in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and
the INS Implementation Manual respectively, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project ."

2 .   Section 3 .02 is amended to read as follows :

"Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3 .01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the
financing of the Project :
(a)   (i)     open and thereafter maintain, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project, an account in CFAF (Project Account A) in CAA on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association ;
(ii)  deposit into the Project Account A an initial contribution of three hundred fifteen
million CFAF (CFAF 315,000,000) ;
(iii) thereafter,ornot later than March 31, 1997 replenish Project Account A at least on a
quarterly basis,(CFAFwhenever its balance shall be less than the equivalent of two hundred
million CFAFopen       200,000,000) ;
(b)   (i)          and thereafter maintain, for the purposes of Part E of the Project, an
account in CFAF (Project Account B) in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association ;
(ii)  deposit into the Project Account B an initial contribution of one hundred sixty
million CFAF (CFAF 160,000,000) ;
(iii) thereafter, replenish Project Account B at least on a quarterly basis, or whenever
its balance shall be less than the equivalent of one hundred million CFAF (CFAF
100,000,000).
(c)   ensure that amounts deposited into each Project Account shall be used exclusively
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those financed from the
proceeds of the Credit ."





                                           - 4 -

3"December
  .   Section 3.05 (a) is amended by replacing the date of "December 31, 1997" with
           31, 1999" .

E.   Article IV

1 .  Subparagraphs (b) (i) and (c) (ii) of Section 4 .01 are amended by adding a"s'.   to
the term "Special Account" .

2"December
  .  Section31,4 .02 (a) is amended by replacing the date of "December 31, 1996" with
F.   Article VI 1998" .

      Section 6.01 (a) is amended by replacing the term "the Project Account" with
`Project Account A" .

G.    Schedule 1, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1 .
follows : (a) SDR 847,000 from CategorySDR to the new Category (2)(b);
     The proceeds of the Credit as set out(2) the table in paragraph I are reallocated as
                                           in
                                                                            (b)
SDR 1,200,000 from Category (3) ;
Category (4)(c) ; and (c) SDR 300,000andfrom Category (1) to new Category (5)(b).
                                               2,440,000 from Category (4)(a) to new

Accordingly, the amounts now allocated to the different Categories are as set out in the
attached revised table.

2 .   Subparagraph 2 (c) is amended to read :

"(c) the term "operating costs" means recurrent expenditures related to mission travel
and subsistence allowances for local staff involved in the Project execution, contractual
staff salaries, operation and maintenance of Project vehicles and equipment, and office
supplies, rental of office space, telecommunications costs, and bank charges ."

H.    Schedule 2, Description of the Project

1 .  The first paragraph of Schedule 2, Description of the Project, is amended to read
as follows:

"The objectives of the Project are: (a) within the framework of PNDS, to (i)expand
access to health services and improve the utilization thereof ; (ii) make said services
available on a sustainable basis ; and (iii) improve MSP's ability to analyze health
problems and to formulate, monitor and evaluate policies, strategies and programs ; and
(b) improve the gathering and availability of data on demographic trends in the territory
of the Borrower, in particular through the implementation of a general census of
population and housing."





                                           - 5 -


2 .   A new component, Part E, is added, which reads as follows :

"Part E :     Population Census

1 .   Design and implementation of a national census covering the entire territory of the
Borrower to collect information on demographics, housing and living environments of
households, and educational status of the population, analyze and disseminate its -
results, through the acquisition of equipment and vehicles, training of staff, hiring of
enumerators and other technical staff.

2acquisition
   .  Establishment of a system for open access to INS data bases, through the
            and installation of equipment and the provision of technical advisory .
services."

I .   Schedule 3, Procurement and Consultants' Services

addingParagraph
1 .             1, National Competitive Bidding, of Section 1, Part C is amended by
        the following sentence after the word "Guidelines" at the end of the second
sentence:

"Contracts for the printing of census questionnaires, estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3 .3 and 3 .4 of the Guidelines ."

2amended
   .  Subparagraph 5 (a), Procurement from UN Agencies, of Section I, Part C is
         by adding the following phrase after the word "equivalent" in the second line :
"and computers and related office equipment, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$600,000 equivalent" .

3modified
   .  Subparagraph 5 (b), Procurement from UN Agencies, of Section I, Part C is
          to read as follows :

"(b) Contraceptives, medical equipment and supplies, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured from United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA) or United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 .9 of the Guidelines ."

J.    Schedule 4, Implementation Program

1 .   A new Section III is added, as follows :

      "Section III:  Execution of Part E of the Project





                                             - 6 -


I .   General

(a)
of theINS shall be responsible for all activities relating to the implementation of Part E
       Project.

(b)    Within INS, BTPR shall be responsible for the regular monitoring of all :activities
regarding the implementation of the census and CPSR shall be responsible for all
aspects of management of the census, including financial management and reporting .

(c)    INS shall communicate directly with the Association on all matters relating to the
implementation of Part E of the Project.

2.     The Borrower shall :

(a)
censusensure are taken and implemented not later than December 31, 1998 ; and (ii) all
             that : (i) all measures required to be taken on its part to collect all relevant
        data
data collected are processed promptly thereafter in accordance with a census
methodology satisfactory to the Association ; and

(b)    submit the final results of the census to the Association not later than December
31, 1999, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association .

3above The Borrower shall carry out the census operations referred to in paragraph 2
  .
       in cooperation with the UNFPA under working arrangements and modalities
acceptable to the Association .

K.     Schedule 5, Special Account

1 .    Subparagraph (a) of paragraph I is amended to read :

"(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A,
Categories (1), (2)(a), (3), (4)(a), (4)(b), and (5)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ; and in the case of Special Account B, Categories
(2)(b), (4)(c) and (5)(b) set forth in same .

2.     Subparagraph (c) of paragraph I is amended to read:

"(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A to CFAF 600,000,000 ; and
in the case of Special Account B to CFAF 1,900,000,000, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for Special





                                            - 7 -

Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 500,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5 .02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 14,000,000 .

3 .   To reflect the addition of Special Account B, the references to "the Special.
Account" shall be to "the respective Special Account", "any Special Account", or "the
Special Accounts", as the case may be. Accordingly, the following paragraphs are
amended to read as follows :
"2 .  Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule .
3Special
  .   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective
          Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as
follows :

(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested .

(b)
furnish(i)to theForreplenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall
                 Association requests for deposits into the respective Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify .

      (ii)     Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective
Special Account for eligible expenditures . All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to





                                             - 8 -

the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures .

5shall Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
  .
       not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account :

(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible, ._
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5 .02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that Special
Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation .
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower . Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6of.any(a)Special Account : (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
               If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out

pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule ; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association : (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request ; or
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified . Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the respective Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.

(b)
in anyIfSpecial Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
           the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding

expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount .

(c)
or anyThe   Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all
        portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts ."

       Piease indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating
the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided to you and
returning one countersigned original to us .

                                         - 9 -

     Upon receipt by the Association of the countersigned original, this Amendment
shall be deemed to have entered into effect as of June 15, 1998 .


                                           Sincerely yours,




                                           Chantal Dejou
                               Acting Country Director for Cote d'Ivoire
                                           Africa Region


ATTACHMENT



CONFIRMED:

REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE



By:  N'GORAN NIAMI N
     Authorized Representative

Date:    13   NOV. 1998





                                            - 1 0 -

                                                                          ATTACHMENT

                        Withdrawal ofSCHEDULE of the Credit
                                       the Proceeds1

proceedsThe the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
1 .      of table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of-the

the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category :

                                Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated                     %Expenditures
                                                                        of
                                (Expressed in
Category                        SDR Equivalent)                      to be Financed

(1)    Civil works                     3,200,000                     90%
       for all parts of the
       Project (except
       Part E thereof)

(2)    Vehicles, furniture and 100% ofexpenditures                      foreign
       or medical and other       :                                                 and
       equipment :                                                    80% of local
                                                                      expenditures

       (a)      for all parts of       6,753,000
       the Project (except
       Part E thereof)

       (b)
       Project for  Part E of the       847,000


(3)    Drugs and medical               1,200,000                      100% of foreign
       consumables                                                    expenditures and
                                                                      80% of local
                                                                      expenditures

(4)    Consultants' services,                                         100%
       training, and audit:

       (a)      for all Parts of       5,360,000
       the Project (except
       Part A.3 (b) and
       Part E thereof)






                              Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in               Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed

      (b)
      Part A.3for(b)                 1,400,000

      of the Project

      (c)    for                     2,440,000
      Part E of
      the Project

(5)   Operating costs :                                   70%

      (a)     for all Parts of the   2,100,000
      Project (except
      Part E thereof)

      (b)
      Project for  Part E of the      300,000


(6)   Refunding of Project            500,000      Amounts due pursuant
      Preparation Advance                          to Section 2.02 (c) of
                                                   this Agreement

(7)    Unallocated                   3,600,000


       TOTAL                         27,700,000

