Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2893 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Health Services Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 11, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2893 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated May 28, 1996 from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the Borrower's health sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
Page  2
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 31, 1995 and April 4, 1995 between the Borrower and the  Association;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02  (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(d)
"PNDS" means Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire, the Borrower's 
national health development plan, including an integrated health services development 
program;
(e)
"MSP" means Ministere de la Sante Publique, the Borrower's ministry 
responsible for public health;
(f)
"Coordinator" means the Project coordinator referred to in Section II (a) 
3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Monitoring Committee" means the Project monitoring committee referred to 
in Section II (a) 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
"DSC" means Direction de la Sante Communautaire, the directorate of MSP 
responsible for community health; 
(i)
"DEMM" means Direction de l'Equipement, du Materiel et de la Maintenance, 
the directorate of MSP responsible for equipment, furniture and maintenance;
(j)
"DRH" means Direction des Ressources Humaines, the directorate of MSP 
responsible for human resources;
(k)
"DR" means Direction Regionale, any directorate of MSP at the regional 
level;
(l)
"DD" means Direction Departementale or District Sanitaire, any 
directorate of MSP at the department level;
(m)
"PSP" means Pharmacie de la Sante Publique, an etablissement public a 
caractere industriel et commercial, established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(n)
"PMA" means paquet minimum d'activites, a minimum package of health 
services;
(o)
"FP" means family planning;
 
(p)
"STD" means sexually transmitted diseases;
Page  3
(q)
"DE-SR/PF" means the executive directorate for reproductive health and 
family planning (except STD), within MSP;
(r)
"DE-VIH/MST/TUB" means the executive directorate for acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome, sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis, within MSP;
(s)
"NGO" means a non-profit non-governmental organization operating within 
the Borrower's territories;
(t)
"AIBEF" means Association Ivoirienne pour le Bien-Etre Familial, a 
non-governmental organization registered in the Borrower's territories, providing 
family planning services;
(u)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual outlining the 
procurement, disbursement and other arrangements for the implementation of the Project 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (f) of this Agreement;
(v)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, a public financial 
institution of the Borrower; and
(w)
"CFAF" or "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 27,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2006 and ending January 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MSP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and health practices, and in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain an account in CFAF (the Project Account) in 
CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  5
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF three 
hundred fifteen million (CFAF 315,000,000);
(c)
thereafter, not later than March 31, 1997, replenish said account at 
least on a quarterly basis, or whenever its balance shall be less than the equivalent 
of CFAF two hundred million (CFAF 200,000,000); and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the Association for its 
review and approval, an action plan, prepared on the basis of criteria satisfactory to 
the Association, defining the specific actions to be taken to substantially increase 
the accounting autonomy and financial management capacity of local public sector 
health care providers; and
(b)
thereafter, carry out said action plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate financial management practices.
Section 3.06. Taking into account its review and validation of treatment 
algorithms for diseases other than STD, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 
1997, adopt and publish national guidelines for syndromic diagnosis and treatment of 
sexually transmitted diseases.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included inthe annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains 
a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall update its three-year public investment 
program in the health sector on the basis of the policy priorities and strategies of 
the Program and, not later than December 31, 1996, furnish said updated public 
investment program to the Association for its review and comments; and
(b)
until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) each year 
update said public investment program for the following calendar year; (ii) by October 
1 of each year, furnish said program to the Association for its review; and (iii) 
promptly thereafter, adopt and carry out said program, taking due account of the 
Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted and published in the Borrower's Journal 
Officiel: (i)  an Arrete portant organisation et fonctionnement of the DD; and (ii) an 
Arrete portant creation,
organisation et fonctionnement of the Project management services; both satisfactory 
to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has issued and communicated a Circulaire, satisfactory to 
the Association, to the MSP's Cabinet and Central Directorates, to the DRs and DDs, as 
well as to other Borrower's ministries concerned, outlining the format, contents, 
Page  7
procedures and eligibility criteria of the health district development plans included 
under Part A.1 of the Project;
(d)
the following staff have been appointed and have assumed their functions: 
(i) the two public health specialists and the health economist referred to in Section 
II (a) 4 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; and (ii) the accountant referred to in 
Section II (a) 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(f)
the Borrower has adopted the Project  Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cflte d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
Page  8
By /s/ Moise Koumoue Koffi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit              % of
                                Allocated        Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Civil works                3,500,000       90%
(2)   Vehicles, furniture and     7,600,000      100% of foreign
      medical and other                          expenditures and
      equipment                                  80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)   Drugs and medical           1,400,000      100% of foreign
      consumables                                expenditures and
                                                 80% of local ex-
                                                 penditures
(4)   Consultants' services                      100%
      and training:
      (a) for all Parts of        7,600,000
          the Project
          (except
          Part A.3 (b)
          thereof)
      (b) for Part A.3 (b)        1,400,000
          of the Project
(5)   Operating costs             2,100,000      70%
(6)   Refunding of Project          500,000      Amounts due
      Preparation Advance                        pursuant to
                                                 Section 2.02 (c)
                                                 of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                 3,600,000
                                  _________
      TOTAL                      27,700,000
                                 ==========
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means recurrent expenditures related to 
mission travel and subsistence allowances for local staff involved in the Project 
execution, contractual staff salaries, operation and maintenance of Project vehicles 
and equipment, and office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (4) 
(b), unless the counselor, referred to in Section II (a) 6 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, has been appointed by the MSP and has assumed his/her functions, and the 
MSP has adopted the policies and procedures, referred to in Part A.3 (a) of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) under contracts for works 
and goods not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, (b) under contracts for employment of 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (c) under contracts for 
employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are, within the framework of PNDS, to: (i) expand 
access to health services and improve the utilization thereof; (ii) make said services 
available on a sustainable basis; and (iii) improve MSP's ability to analyze health 
problems and to formulate, monitor and evaluate policies, strategies and programs.
Part A:
PMA
 
1.
Preparation and implementation of health district development plans in about 14 
DDs, consisting of construction or renovation, equipment, operation and maintenance of 
DDs' headquarters, general hospitals and health centers, the acquisition of medicines 
and medical consumables, the provision of technical advisory services, staffing, 
training of general hospital and health center staff, and supervision of health care 
services.
2.
Strengthening of the DSC responsible for providing assistance to the DDs in the 
preparation, review and execution of the plans included in Part A.1 of the Project, 
through the acquisition of vehicles, furniture, equipment and office supplies, the 
provision of training in health planning and management, and the provision of 
technical advisory services.
3.
(a) Establishment and application of policies and procedures concerning 
cooperation between the MSP, local communities, community associations and NGOs for 
services in the delivery of the PMA program; and (b) provision of services by local 
communities, community associations and NGOs in the delivery of the PMA program.
Part B:
Reproductive Health
 
1.
Establishment and operation of FP services in about 100 public sector health 
centers of DDs, through rehabilitation and maintenance of buildings, the acquisition 
of office equipment and supplies, medical equipment, and supplies and consumables, the 
Page  10
provision of training of doctors, mid-wives, social workers and nurses, and technical 
advisory services.
2.
(a) Constructing and equipping of six specialized FP AIBEF clinics in Man, San 
Pedro, Yamoussoukro, Odienne, Abengourou, and Bondoukou; (b) rehabilitation and  
equipping of three AIBEF regional facilities in Bouake, Daloa and Korhogo; (c) the 
acquisition of motorbikes, medical equipment, supplies and consumables, communications 
and office equipment and supplies, and the provision of technical advisory services 
for the above-mentioned clinics and facilities.
3.
Improving the Borrower's national reproduction health/family planning program 
(PN-SR/PF) through the acquisition of vehicles and office and audio-visual equipment, 
the provision of  training of health care providers and managers in communication and 
FP program management, and technical advisory services.
4.
Strengthening the Borrower's national STD control program (PNLS) through 
training of DE-VIH/MST/TUB personnel and health care providers and managers in STD 
treatment, control and program management, the provision of information, education and 
communication services and technical advisory services, and the acquisition of medical 
supplies.
Part C:
Planning and Management
 
1.
Institutional capacity assessment of the MSP and support to the MSP 
organizational development program (including computer skills upgrading and the 
establishment of computer standards), through the provision of training of MSP 
headquarters staff, the acquisition of computers and office equipment and supplies, 
and the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Carrying out of the MSP action-research and studies program and introduction 
into said program of the results of the 1995 review of health sector public 
expenditures, through the provision of training, the acquisition of equipment and 
office supplies, and the provision of technical advisory services.
3.
Strengthening decentralized financial management of MSP services through the 
acquisition of equipment and office supplies, supervisory visits to the DRs and DDs, 
the provision of training in accounting and financial management, and the provision of 
technical advisory services.
4.
Strengthening MSP partnerships with local communities, community associations 
and NGOs, through workshops and seminars, and the provision of training and technical 
advisory services.
5.
Strengthening the supervision and trainer capacity of seven DRs in Bondoukou, 
Bouake, Yamoussoukro, Odienne, Korhogo, Sud I and Sud II outside Abidjan, through the 
acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and supplies, the provision of training in 
management and supervision
of health services, and the provision of technical advisory services.
6.
Revision of national treatment algorithms and strengthening of information 
services of the MSP Direction de la Pharmacie et du Medicament (DPM), including the 
publication of a catalogue of medicinal equivalents and a newsletter for prescribers 
and pharmacists, through the acquisition of office equipment and supplies, and the 
provision of training and technical advisory services.
7.
Introduction of revised and improved prescription practices through the 
provision of training of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and private drug sellers, the 
acquisition of office equipment and supplies, and the provision of technical advisory 
services.
8.
Strengthening quality control of medicines, through the acquisition of 
laboratory equipment and supplies for the National Public Health Laboratory 
responsible for pharmaceuticals quality
control and the Pharmaceuticals Faculty at the University, office equipment and 
supplies, the provision of training of MSP personnel and the provision of technical 
advisory services.
Page  11
9.
Preparation and introduction of a reform of the curriculum for medical and 
paramedical studies, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services, and the preparation, printing and distribution of pedagogical materials.
10.
Strengthening the DRH and updating its personnel data base and strategies for 
planning of  recruitment and of staff and career development in public sector health 
services, through the provision of training at the national and regional levels, 
building repairs, the acquisition of office equipment and supplies, and the provision 
of technical advisory services.
11.
(a) Carrying out studies on primary care mutual insurance and on expansion of 
complementary private insurance, and strengthening MSP capacity in health insurance 
through the provision of training and technical advisory services; and (b) 
establishment, on a pilot basis, of primary care mutual insurance in two DDs, through 
the acquisition of equipment and office supplies, and the provision of technical 
advisory services.
Part D:
Information and Health
 
1.
Establishment of a national system for epidemiological surveillance, through the 
acquisition of computers and office supplies, and the provision of technical advisory 
services for reviewing individual endemic and epidemic disease control programs, 
evaluating the feasibility of a computer network, setting up a data base, and for 
economic evaluation of said system.
2.
Establishment of a system for periodic quantitative and qualitative assessment 
of health services by the beneficiaries thereof (Observatoire des Beneficiaires), 
through the acquisition of equipment and office supplies, and the provision of 
training in beneficiary assessment methodology, and technical advisory services.
3.
Development and application of a national policy for information, education and 
communication to promote healthy behavior, through rehabilitation of office 
facilities, the acquisition of vehicles, motorbikes, office supplies and 
communications equipment (including
cameras, production equipment, printers, photocopiers, projection equipment, 
television equipment and screens), the provision of training and technical advisory 
services, the production and distribution of communications materials, and supervisory 
visits to the DRs and DDs.
4.
Improved functioning of the MSP management information system and increased use 
thereof in decision-making, through the acquisition of computers, equipment and office 
supplies and the provision of training and technical advisory services.
5.
Development and use of a health mapping (carte sanitaire) tool, through surveys 
at different levels of the health care system, the acquisition of equipment, 
computers, materials and office supplies and the provision of training and technical 
advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Page  12
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,800,000 equivalent, and goods (other than drugs and 
medical consumables) estimated to cost $30,000 or more but less than $200,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $3,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. Drugs and medical consumables produced locally estimated to cost $30,000 
or more but less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured through PSP under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods (other than drugs and medical consumables) estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
 
Goods and works required for Part A.3 (b) of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
 
Equipment of a proprietary nature under the Project estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be contracted directly without competition in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
 
(a)
Vehicles required at the initial stage of Project execution, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured from UNDP's 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines, if not procured on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Contraceptives, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 
equivalent, may be procured from United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Section I:
General
 
1.
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall apply the 
policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Project Implementation Manual 
and, except as otherwise agreed with the Association, shall not amend the Project 
Implementation Manual in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, would 
materially affect the implementation of the Project.
(a)
The Borrower shall, through MSP, beginning October 1, 1996, and 
thereafter not later than October 1 of each year, carry out jointly with the 
Association: (i) a review of MSP budget plans in respect of the forthcoming calendar 
year and a review of MSP budget execution in respect of the current calendar year, 
including the provision of counterpart funds for the Project and of investment and 
recurrent funds required for the health district development plans under Part A.1 of 
Page  14
the Project; and (ii) a review of Project work plans for institutional strengthening 
and service delivery to be prepared by MSP in respect of the forthcoming calendar 
year.
(b)
Not later than December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall: (i) establish a 
calendar and process on an annual basis for internal review of Project activities 
undertaken during the previous year and to be undertaken during the forthcoming year, 
including in particular PMA, FP, and STD prevention and control activities; and (ii) 
establish a work program defining the overall technical support required for the FP 
program under Part B of the Project, and furnish said program to the Association for 
its review and approval. Promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall carry out said 
program with due diligence and efficiency.
(c)
Not later than December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly 
with the Association, a comprehensive review to assess the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project. Said review shall cover, inter alia:
(i)
the extent to which the institutional objectives of the Project 
are being 
achieved;
 
(ii)
an assessment of the impact achieved by the Project so far and the 
sustainability of its achievements;
(iii)
compliance with the audit and other obligations of the Borrower 
included in 
this Agreement;
 
(iv)
timely availability of counterpart funding and disbursement 
performance under 
the Project;
 
(v)
the performance of technical advisory services under the Project;
 
(vi)
procurement under the Project;
 
(vii)
performance as against key indicators, referred to in paragraph  
(e) of this 
Section, agreed upon with the Association; and
 
(viii) the Borrower's plan for the future operation of the Project and 
for related 
investments.
 
(e)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
 
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association, on or about September 1 of each year, a 
report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Association, by October 1 of each year, or such 
later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to 
in sub-paragraph (ii) of 
this paragraph, and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the 
Association's views on the matter.
Section II:
Project Management
 
(a)
At the national level
Page  15
(i)
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Monitoring Committee with, 
inter alia,  
the following responsibilities: (i) review and approval of 
annual work plans 
and budgets for the Project; (ii) review and approval 
of study proposals under 
the MSP action-research program included in 
Part C.2 of the Project; (iii) 
review and approval of the health 
district development plans included in Part 
A.1 of the Project; and 
(iv) facilitation and problem solving on issues 
affecting the 
execution of the Project.
(ii)
The Monitoring Committee shall be chaired by the MSP Minister or 
his 
representative. Its membership shall include: (i) within 
MSP, the directors of 
its 8 central directorates, of DE-SR/PF, of 
DE-VIH/MST/TUB and of Service 
National de 
l'Information-Education- Communication, a representative of the 
PMA 
unit referred to in paragraph (a) 4 of this Section and the counselor 
referred to in paragraph (a) 6 of this Section; (ii) a representative of the 
Prime Minister's Office; (iii) representatives of other relevant 
ministries 
involved in the health sector; and (iv) other members, as 
appropriate. The 
Coordinator and the financial administrator 
referred to in paragraph (a) 3 of 
this Section may attend the 
Committee's meetings with a consultative vote.
(iii)
The Borrower shall maintain a Project coordination unit 
responsible for 
administrative and financial matters 
concerning the Project, reporting 
directly to the Cabinet of 
the MSP Minister and under the supervision of the 
Monitoring 
Committee. Said unit shall be chaired by a Coordinator and shall 
include a financial administrator, a health economist and an accountant, all 
on a full-time basis and with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
(iv)
of the MSP Minister, responsible for the monitoring, analysis and 
guidance of 
the PMA program and to provide support and advice to the DSC 
and DDs. The PMA 
unit shall include two public health specialists, one 
of whom shall chair the 
PMA unit, and a health economist, all with 
terms of reference, qualifications 
and experience, satisfactory to 
the Association.
(v)
The DSC shall support the DDs, in cooperation with the DRs, in the 
preparation, assessment and implementation of the 
health district development 
plans included in Part A.1 of the 
Project. The DSC shall also be responsible 
for the execution of Parts 
A.2 and D.1 of the Project.
(vi)
The Cabinet of the MSP Minister shall be responsible for the 
execution of 
Parts A.3 and C.1, 4, 5 and 11 of the Project and for 
supervision of execution 
of Part B.2 of the Project. A counselor of the 
Cabinet shall be responsible 
for relations with the local 
communities, the community associations and the 
NGOs. He shall be 
assisted by specialists, including a sociologist with terms 
of 
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, 
and a specialist, coming from the community movement, employed in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(vii)
The DE-SR/PF shall be responsible for the execution of Part B.1 
and 3 of the 
Project in coordination with the DSC. The DE-SR/PF shall 
employ, at all times, 
a financial administrator with terms of 
reference, qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
(viii) The DE-VIH/MST/TUB shall be responsible for the execution of Part 
B.4 of the 
Project in coordination with the DSC. The DE-VIH/MST/TUB 
shall employ, at all 
times, a financial administrator with terms of 
reference, qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
Page  16
(ix)
The MSP Direction du Controle, de l'Evaluation et de l'Information 
Sanitaire 
shall be responsible for the execution of Parts C.2 and D.2 
and 4 of the 
Project.
 
(x)
The MSP Direction des Affaires Financieres shall be responsible 
for the 
execution of Part C.3 of the Project.
 
(xi)
The MSP Direction de la Pharmacie et du Medicament shall be 
responsible for 
the execution of Part C.6, 7 and 8 of the Project.
 
(xii)
The MSP Direction des Etablissements et des Professions Sanitaires 
shall be 
responsible for the execution of Part C.9 of the Project.
 
(xiii) The DRH shall be responsible for the execution of Part C.10 of the 
Project.
(xiv)
The MSP Service National de l'Information-Education-Communication 
shall be 
responsible for the execution of Part D.3 of the 
Project.
(xv)
The MSP Direction de la Planification et de la Programmation 
Sanitaire shall 
be responsible for the execution of Part D.5 of the 
Project.
(xvi)
The DEMM shall be responsible for overall procurement of works and 
goods under 
the Project, except for drugs and medical consumables which 
shall be procured 
by the PSP.
 
(xvii) In the carrying out of the above-mentioned responsibilities, the 
DEMM and PSP 
shall cooperate with the financial administrator of the 
coordination unit 
referred to in paragraph (a) 3 of this 
Section.
(b)
At the service delivery level
 
1.
For the purposes of the health district development plans included in Part A.1 
of the Project, the DDs shall apply the provisions of the Circulaire referred to in 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement. Said plans shall be +prepared by the DDs with the 
support of the relevant DR and the DSC, in cooperation with other partners including 
beneficiaries of health services, private sector health care providers and local 
communities.  A DD shall furnish its draft health development plan, including cost 
estimates and financing plan, through the DSC, to the Coordinator for review and 
approval by the Monitoring Committee. Upon approval, the DD shall carry out its plan 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate public health and 
management practices with the same support and cooperation as outlined above.
2.
Reproductive health services concerning FP and STD included in Part B.1, 3 and 4 
of the Project shall be carried out by the DE-SR/PF and DE-VIH/MST/TUB in cooperation 
with the DRs and DDs concerned.
3.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the MSP shall, not 
later than December 31, 1996, enter into an agreement with AIBEF under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Local communities, community associations and NGOs shall provide services for 
delivering the PMA program under Part A.3 (b) of the Project in accordance with the 
policies and procedures adopted pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  17
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
1,000,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 500,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 14,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  18
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
