




The World Bank                                              1818 H Street NW               (202) 477-1234
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington, DC 20433
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                      USA                            Cable Address :INTBAFRAD
                                                                                           Cable Address :INDEVAS

                                                                                   July 18, 2000

         H. E. Mamadou Koulibaly
         Minister of Economy and Finance
         Ministry of Economy and Finance
         B.P. V 125
         Abidjan
         Republic of Cote d'lvoire


         Re:     Credit No. 2893 IVC (Integrated Health Services Development and Census Project)
                 Second Amendment      to the Development Credit Agreement


         Excellency :

                 We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) between the Republic
         of Cote d'Ivoire (the Borrower) and the International Development Association    (the Association)
         dated July 11, 1996, as amended to date .

                 Pursuant to your letter dated February 28, 2000         and discussions held between the
         representatives of the Borrower and the Association,       we are pleased to inform you that the
        Association accedes to your Government's request to amend the Agreement and       hereby proposes
        that the Development Credit Agreement referred to above be further amended as     follows:

        A.       Article I

                 Section 1 .02 is amended to read as follows :

                 "Unless the context otherwise requires,       the several terms defined in the General
        Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional   terms have
        the following meanings :

                 (a)     "Action Plan" means the action plan prepared by INS and to be approved
        Borrower, setting forth detailed measures to be implemented by INS to ensure                  by the
                                                                                        full accessibility of
        its data bases to the public within the territory of the Borrower ;

                 (b)     "Administrateur    Financier"    or  "Financial    Manager"  means    the   person
        responsible for the financial management of the Project ;






                                                   2-


          (c)     "AIBEF" means      Association Ivoirienne pour Ic     Bien-Etre Familial, a non-
governmental     organization registered  in the Borrower's territories, providing family planning
 services ;

          (d)     "BTPR" or      "Bureau Technique Permanent         du  Recensement" means the
 Permanent Technical Office for the Census established within
 specified in subparagraph I (b) of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
                                                                        INS whose;  attributions are


          (e)     "CAA" means Caisse Autonome        d'Amortissement, a public financial institution
 of the Borrower;

          (f)
 facilitating the planning and the evaluation of health services
                  "Carte sanitaire" means health map, a public ; health tool  used by MSP aimed at


          (g)     "CCP" or   "Cellule de Coordination du Projet,,    means the unit attached to the
 MSP responsible for the coordination          of project execution     in accordance with     Arrete
No.   228/MSP/CAB dated May 31, 1996 ;

          (h)     "CFAF" or "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower:

 Schedule(i)4 to this Agreement ;
                  "Coordinator" means the Project coordinator referred      to in Section II (a) 3 of


          0)      "CPSR" or   "Comite de Pilotage et   de Suivi du Recensement" is the committee
 responsible for the monitoring of the census, whose attributions are    specified in subparagraph I
 (b) of Section III of schedule 4 to this Agreement ;

 pursuant(k) Note de Service
                  "CT" or "Coordonnateur       Technique" means the person appointed by MSP
           to                 No. 1318 dated November 30, 1999, operating within the CCP, who
 shall be responsible for technical coordination and supervisidn of all  Project activities;

          (1)     "DAF"'-or "Direction des Affaires Financieres"      means the directorate of MSP
 responsible for financial matters ;


 Sanitaire"(m)means"DCEIS"   or "Direction du Controle, de         ('Evaluation  et  de  ('Information
                    the Directorate within MSP responsible for health monitoring follow up,
 evaluation and information ;

           (n)
 MSP at the department level
                  "DD" means;    Direction Departementale    or District Sanitaire. any directorate of


           (o)    "DEMM" means Direction
 the directorate of MSP responsible for equipment, supplies and maintenance
                                                de I'Equipement, du Materiel et:  de la  Maintenance,






                                                 -3-


         (p)     "DEPS" or "Direction des Etablissements      et des Professions Sanitaires" means
 the Directorate within MSP responsible for health institutions and professions;

         (q)     "DE-SR/PF" means the executive directorate for reproductive health      and family
 planning (except STD), within MSP ;

         (r)     "Development Partners" means the partners of the Borrower's Administration
 contributing to the development and sustainability of health policies, services and programs, such
 as World Health Organization, European Union, African Development Bank, agencies of the
 United Nations and bilateral cooperation agencies ;

         (s)     "DE-VIH/MST/TUB" means the executive directorate            for acquired immune
 deficiency syndrome, sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis, within MSP    ;

         (t)     "DPM" or "Direction de la Pharmacie et du Medicament"       means the directorate
 of MSP responsible for drugs and medicines ;

         (u)     "DPPS" or "Direction de la      Planification et de la Programmation Sanitaires"
 means the Directorate within MSP responsible for health planning and programming ;

         (v)     "DR" means Direction Regionale, any directorate of MSP at the regional     level ;

         (w)     "DRH" means Direction des Ressources Humaines, the directorate of MSP
 responsible for human resources ;

         (x)     "DSC" means Direction de la Sante Communautaire, the directorate of MSP
 responsible for community health ;

 insuring coordination of health services at the DD level means
         (y)     "ECD" or   "Equipe-Cadre de District"          a team responsible for guiding and
                                                          ;

         (z)     "FP" means family planning ;

         (aa)    "HIV/AIDS"       stands    for   "Human      Immunodeficiency
Immunodeficiency Syndrome";                                                          Virus/Acquired


         (bb)    "INS Implementation Manual" means the manual outlining the procurement,
 disbursement, performance indicators and other arrangements for the
 the Project;                                                          implementation of Part E of


         (cc)    "INS" or "Institut   National de la Statistique"
 Institute of the Borrower, established and operating as     a Statemeansthe National Statistical
                                                                     corporation   pursuant to the
Borrower's Decree No. 96-975 of December 18, 1996;






                                                 - 4 -


         (dd)     "Monitoring Committee" means the Project Monitoring Committee referred      to in
 Section 11 (a) I and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement  ;

         (ee)     "MSP" means Ministere de la Sante Publique, the Borrowers               ministry
 responsible for public health ;

         (ff)     "NGO" means a non-profit non-governmental organization operating within the
 Borrowers territories  ;

 development plan"PDS"
         (gg)       adopted by the Borrower through MSP and implemented at the DD level ;health
                          or "Plan     de  Developpement Sanitaire"     means a district


         (fill)   "PIP Sante" means the rolling three-year public investment program in the health
 sector updated each year by the MSP under the guidance of the Borrower's Ministry responsible
 for planning ;

 services(ii) defined in the Arrete No . 741/MSP/CAB dated December 9, 1996 ;
                  "PMA" means      paquet minimum d_'activites, a minimum package of health
          as

 national(jj)     "PNDS" means      Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire, the Borrowers
           health development plan, including an integrated health services development program ;

 national(kk)
           program to address HIV/AIDS, STDs and tuberculosis
                  "PNLS" or "Programme national de lutte contre;   Ie SIDA" means the Borrower's


         (Il)     "PN-SR/PF"       or    "Programme       National   de    la    Sante,   de     la
 Reproduction/Planification Familiale" means the Borrower's national reproductive health/family
 planning program;

         (mm)     "Project Account" means either or both the accounts referred to in Section 3 .02
 of this Agreement ;

 disbursement and"Projeciarrangements for(f)
         (nn)               Implementation Manual" means the manual outlining the procurement,
                    other
 thereof adopted pursuant to Section 6 .01   theofimplementation of the Project other than Part E
                                                  this Agreement ;

         (oo)     "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted   by
 the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 31, 1995 and
 April 4, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association ;

 caractere(pp)    "PSP" means Pharmacie       de la   Sante  Publique, an etablissement public   a_
           industriel et commercial, established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;






                                                    -5-


            (qq)     "RH" or "reproductive health" means family planning and other health services
     aimed at sound reproductive health outcomes in the spirit of the 1994 International Conference
    on Population and Development;

            (rr)     "Special Account" means either or both the accounts referred to in Section 2    .02
    (b) of this Agreement ;

            (ss)     "STD" means sexually transmitted diseases ; and

    responsible for helping the DDs become operational and assisting themmeans
            (tt)     "UTAD" or "Unite    Technique d'Appui aux Districts"         the unit within DSC
                                                                             to: (a) introduce the PMA
    program ; (b) strengthen their performance ; and (c) execute their PDSs.

    B.      Article lI

     1 .    Section 2 .01(b) is amended to read as follows :

            "The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
            referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
            equivalent to twenty million and seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
            (SDR 20,700,000) .

  2 .       Section 2.03.   is amended by replacing the date of "September 30, 2000" with
            "September 30, 2001 ".

  C.        Article III

    1 .     "December.051,(a)
            Section 3          is amended by replacing the date of "December 31, 1999" with
                       3    2000".

  2.        After Section 3 .06, the following Section is added

            "Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:     (i) no later than March 31, 2000, furnish to the
            Association a work program to establish physical standards for health infrastructure and
            equipment at primary and secondary levels ;
            execution of the work program by carrying out(ii)  no later than October 31, 2000, complete
                                                            studies and consultations with interested
            stakeholders (other ministries, public and non governmental professionals and the
            Borrower's Development Partners engaged in the health sector) ;      and (iii) no later than
            December 3 1, 2000, adopt adequate standards in this respect" .


 D.         Article IV

    I .     Section 4.02 (a) is amended to read as follows






                                                       - 6 -



          "The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2000, review and substantially revise
          its PIP Sante to the satisfaction of the Association ; and"

 E.       Schedule 1, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

  I .    The proceeds of the Credit as set out in the table in paragraph I arc partially cancelled
          and reallocated as follows :

 Adjustments to Categories                              Take out of                    Add to
                                                          (SDRs)                      (SDRs)
                                               Cat           Amount in SDRs    Cat.           Amountin
                                                                                                SDRs
                                                                    200 000    5(b)              200 000
                                               1                    700,000    3                 700,000
                                               2 (b)                 40,000    4(a)                40 .000

Amounts to be canceled                         224 (a)            3,553,000    Cancel
                                                   (b)                7,0001   Cancel
                                                  (c)               140,0001   Cancel
                                               5 (a)                200,000'   Cancel
                                               6                    100,000,   Cancel
                                                                  3,000,000'   Cancel
     Total to be canceled                                         7,000,000 ;

 Accordingly, the amounts now allocated to the different Categories are as set out in the attached
 revised table .

         Subparagraph 2 (c) is amended to read :

         "(c)     the term
                      .
                      .'-'operating        costs" means the following incremental expenditures related
         to the Project:
         Project execution
         telecommunications costs and bank charges ; but;excluding salaries and other
          Project vehicles and equipment ; (iv) office supplies(iii)
                          (''f) ;-mission travel and subsistence allowances for local staff involved in
                                  (ii) salaries of contractual staff;     andoperation
                                                                              (v) rentalandofmaintenance of
                                                                                              office space,

         compensation of officials of the Borrower's civil service ."

 F .     Schedule 2, Description of the Project

         Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows

        "The objective of the Project is to develop the health system in the Borrower's territory by
 the introduction of reforms and the promotion of access and utilization of care in the health
 districts, especially in the areas of reproductive health, family planning, sexually transmitted






                                                  -7-


 diseases and HIV/AIDS . The specific objectives of the Project are to : (i) create and make
 operational a framework to improve the performance of the ECD        ; (ii) improve the performance
 of the health system by introducing the PMA program, especially reproductive health/FP services
 and services to combat AIDS, STD, and tuberculosis ; (iii) improve the management and
 financing of the health sector; and (iv) execute and publish a General Census of the Population
 and Housing (RGPH) and analyze the results .

         The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
 Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives :

 Part A:    PMA and Strengthening of DDs

   I .    Preparation and implementation of PDS and annual activity plans in four pilot DDs
 (Tiassale, Grand-Lahou, Guiglo, Duekoue) including: (1) the construction or rehabilitation of
 public sector health centers, general hospitals, and district headquarters facilities ; (ii) the
 provision of equipment for public sector health centers, general hospitals, and district
 headquarters facilities ; (iii) training for health personnel in general hospitals and health center
 staff as well as staff from NGOs and non-profit community associations ; (iv) the provision of
 technical advisory services, including for supervision of health care services and support for local
 initiatives of ECDs and NGOs; and (v) the acquisition of contraceptives and medical
 consumables.

 2.       Strengthening the capacity of the DSC by establishing and operating UTAD, through (i)
 the recruitment of three (3) physicians specialized in public health as well as support staff for the
 UTAD; (ii) the acquisition of vehicles, office furniture, equipment and office supplies ; (iii) the
 organization of study and training trips ; (iv) the provision of technical advisory services for
 training, management, the elaboration of health services supervision tools, the holding of
 meetings and seminars and the undertaking of supervision missions in the DDs .

 3 .      Improving the operational capacities of two DRs (DR SUDI and DR OUEST) and of
 peripheral health services.generally, through (i) training in management and supervision of health
 care facilities; (ii) provision of technical advisory services for carrying out studies on the
 development of the two regional directorates and the execution of pilot activities for the
 development and utilization of flexible mechanisms for providing financial support to districts,
 community associations, and NGOs ; and (iii) the acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and
 supplies.

 4between Estabiishment and application of policies and procedures concerning cooperation
     .
           the MSP, local authorities, community associations and NGOs for the delivery of PMA
 services through the provision of consultant services and training.

 5studies Preparation and introduction of reforms in the curricula for medical and para-medical
      .
          in the Borrower's territory, through : (i) establishment of a reform secretariat; (ii) the






                                                  -8-


 provision of technical advisory services ; (iii) training and sensitization activities ;   and (iv) the
 acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and supplies .


 Part B :    Reproductive Health/Family Planning and Control of AIDS/STD and Tuberculosis

   I . Establishment and operation of FP services in about 106 public sector health centers of
 the DDs, through : (i) the rehabilitation and maintenance of buildings ; (ii) the acquisition of office
 equipment and supplies as well as medical equipment, supplies and consumables ; (iii) training of
 physicians, mid-wives, social workers, nurses and other personnel as needed ; and (iv) provision
 of technical advisory services for FP management and training support .

 2six .     Strengthening and expanding AIBEF FP services, through : (i) constructing and equipping
        specialized FP AIBEF clinics in Man, San Pedro, Yamoussoukro, Odienne, Abengourou, and
 Bondoukou, including the acquisition of medical, office, and communications equipment and
 supplies, as well as technical advisory services to strengthen operations ; (ii) rehabilitation of
 three AIBEF regional centers in Bouake, Daloa, and Korhogo, including the acquisition of
 medical, office, and communications equipment and supplies, as well as technical advisory
 services to strengthen operations ; and (iii) rehabilitation and extension of the clinic located at
 AIBEF headquarters, including acquisition of equipment, supplies and medical consumables         .

 3.         Improving the PN-SR/FP through: (i) the acquisition of vehicles, office and audio-visual
 equipment and supplies    ; (ii) training of health care providers and managers in communication
 and FP program management ; and (iii) provision of technical advisory services .

 4careStrengthening the PNLS through (i) training of DE-VIH/MST/TUB personnel, health
     .
         providers and managers from the MSP and other ministerial departments in STD/HIV
 treatment, control and program management ; (ii) the provision of technical advisory services in
 information, education, and communication ; (iii) the acquisition of medical equipment, associated
 civil works and supplies ; (iv) the preparation and execution of AIDS prevention and control
 programs of other ministerial departments ; and (v) support to HIV/AIDS/STD/TUB initiatives
 from NGOs and local adthorities .

 Part C    : Health Sector Planning and Financing

 PNDS andStrengthening
    1.                    of health sector planning and financing by monitoring and evaluating
             Project implementation and impact through provision of training to MSP personnel
 and other personnel of the Borrower's Administration, and provision of technical advisory
 services, for: (a) the carrying out of studies and action(c)
                                                            planning on the institutional capacity of
 the MSP; (b) the finalization of the carte sanitaire;          the execution of a review of public
 expenditures in the health sector ; and (d) the substantial review and amendment of the PIP .

 2acquisition
      .     Strengthening decentralized financial management of MSP services through           : (i) the
               of office equipment and supplies ; (ii) the carrying out of supervisory visits to the DRs






                                                   -9-


 and DDs;     and (iii) the provision of technical advisory services for carrying out studies and
 training in accounting and financial management .

 3NGOs,
      .   Strengthening MSP partnerships with local communities, community associations and
         through the provision of technical advisory services for workshops, seminars and training ;

 4prescribers,
      .   Strengthening MSP pharmaceutical policies and services, through provision of training to
                 pharmacists and other pharmaceutical personnel, provision of technical advisory
 services, and acquisition of office supplies and equipment, for        : (i) the revision of national
 treatment algorithms and strengthening of information services of DPM, including the publication
 of a catalogue of medicinal equivalents and a newsletter for prescribers and pharmacists ; and (ii)
 the introduction of revised and improved prescription practices, including training of physicians,
 nurses, pharmacists and private drug/medicine sellers .

 5processesImproving
      .              the information systems and services, and the decision making capacities and
             of the MSP through (i) the acquisition of computers, equipment and office supplies ; (ii)
 training of MSP personnel ; and (iii) the provision of technical advisory services for supporting
 the development and use of the MSP Iibrary and for creating a data base for the DCEIS .

 6pilot
      .   Strengthening the Borrower's capacity in the field of health insurance and creating, on a
         basis, a primary care mutual insurance system in two DDs (Yamoussoukro and Daloa) ,
 through:    (1) the carrying out of studies on mutual insurance systems for basic care and on
 expansion of complementary private insurance schemes ; and (ii) the provision of training and
 technical advisory services.

 Part D:      Population and Housing Census

    l .    (i)     Design and implementation of a national census to collect information on
 demographics, housing and living environments of households, and educational status of the
 population;    and (ii) analysis and dissemination of the results, through the acquisition of
 equipment and vehicles;.training of staff, hiring of enumerators and other technical staff .

 2installation
      .   Establishment of a system for open access to INS data bases, through the acquisition and
                of equipment and the provision of technical advisory services .




          The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001" .




 G.     Schedule 4, Implementation Program






                                                 -to-


    I  .   Section 11 of Schedule 4 is amended to read as follows

  "Section 11   :Project Management

  (a)      At the national level

            I .     The Borrower shall maintain, within MSP, a Project Monitoring Committee with,
  inter alia, the following responsibilities: (i) review of annual work plans and budgets for the
  Project ; (ii) review of PDSs and annual activity plans included in Part A.l of the Project;and (iii)
  facilitation and problem solving on issues affecting the execution of the Project .

           2 .      The Project Monitoring Committee shall be chaired by the Minister of MSP or
  his representative. Its membership shall include : (i) within MSP, the directors of its central
 directorates, of DE-SR/PF, of DE-VIH/MST/TUB, and the CT referred to in paragraph (a) 3 of
  this Section; (ii) representatives of the Prime Minister's Office and of the Ministries responsible
 for finance and economy and for planning and programming of development ; (iii) representatives
 of other ministries involved in the health sector, as needed ; and (iv) other members, as
 appropriate . The Coordinator responsible for administrative and financial coordination of the
  Project and the Financial Manager referred to in paragraph (a) 3 of this Section may attend the
  Committee's meetings with a consultative role .

           3 .      The Borrower shall maintain a Project Coordination Unit responsible for
  technical, administrative and financial matters concerning the Project, reporting directly to the
 Cabinet of the MSP Minister .    Said unit shall be composed of: (i) a CT, the Project Manager ; (ii) a
 Coordinator responsible for Administrative and Financial Matters ; (iii) a Financial Manager; (vi)
 an accountant ; (v) a program assistant ; and (vi) a procurement assistant, all on a full-time basis
  and with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association .

           4 . The Borrower shall maintain UTAD, which is responsible for monitoring,
  analyzing, guiding and supervising the DDs in cooperation with the DRs as well as for providing
 training for the DDs-'-...managers and health staff and for improving their management
  performance and their ability to deliver PMA services .

            5 .     The Borrower shall maintain DSC within MSP      . DSC shall provide training and
  supervisory support to the DDs, together with the CT and in collaboration with the DRs and other
 relevant services from the MSP . The DSC shall be responsible for the execution of Part A .2 of
  the Project.

           6.       The Borrower shall maintain the existing DDs, which are responsible for the
 execution of Part A .l of the Project, under the supervision of the competent DRs together with
  DSC, which shall provide technical support .

           7.       The Borrower shall maintain in MSP a unit responsible for relations with local
 authorities, community associations and NGOs . Said unit shall be part of the Cabinet of the MSP






 Minister. It shall include a specialist, coming from the community movement, employed in
 accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement ; and a sociologist,
 on a full-time basis, with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
 Association .

          8.
 and C.1
  with DAF,(a), forThe
                     theCabinet of the MSP shall be responsible for the execution of Parts A .3, A.4
                         supervision of the execution of Part B .2 of the Project and, in cooperation
             for the execution of Part C .1 (d) of the Project .

          9.       The Borrower shall maintain DE-SR/PF which is responsible for the execution of
  Parts B .l and B .3 of the Project in coordination with DSC . DE-SR/PF shall employ, at all times,
 in compliance with its constitutive Arrete, a financial officer with terms of reference,
 qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association .

          10.      The Borrower shall maintain DE-VIH/MST/TUB which is responsible for the
 execution of Part B.4 of the Project in coordination with the DSC and the other ministries
 involved . DE-VIH/MST/TUB shall employ, at all times, in compliance with its application
 Arrete, a program coordinator (Coordonnateur de        moyens) and a financial officer with terms of
  reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association .

  Part C.5Iof the Project.
            l .    The Borrower shall maintain DCEIS which is responsible for the execution of


          12.      The Borrower shall maintain DAF which is responsible for the execution of Part
 C.l   (c) of the Project in cooperation with the DCEIS and other units of the MSP, and for the
  execution of Part C .2 of the Project.

  Part C.413of.    The Borrower shall maintain DPM which is responsible for the execution of
               the Project.

          14.      The Borrower shall maintain DEPS which is responsible for the execution of Part
 A.5 of the Project.

  the Carte15sanitaire which is responsible for the execution of Part C . I (b) of the Project .
              .    The Borrower shall maintain DPPS and within the latter the Sub-Directorate of


          16.      The Borrower shall maintain DEMM which is responsible for overall
 procurement of works and goods under the Project, except for drugs and medical consumables,
 which shall be procured by the PSP . DEMM and PSP will carry out the above responsibilities in
 cooperation with the Coordination Unit of the Project, in.       particular with the support of the
  procurement assistant referred to in paragraph 3 (vi) above

  (b)     At the service delivery level

                                               - 12-


        I .      For the purposes of the district health development plans included in Part A .1  of
the Project, the DDs shall apply the provisions of the Circulaire referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement. Said plans shall be prepared by the DDs with the support of the relevant DR and
the DSC, in cooperation with other partners, including beneficiaries of health services, private
sector health care providers and local communities . Each DD shall furnish each year, before
December 31, its draft annual activity plan, including cost estimates and financing plan, through
the DSC, to the CT for review by the Monitoring Committee . The DD shall carry out its plan with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate public health and management
practices with the same support and cooperation as outlined above .

and 4 of2the Project shall be carried out by the DE-SR/PF and DE-VIH/MST/TUB in cooperation
          .      Reproductive health services concerning RH and STD included in Part B .l, 3

with the DSC, DRs and DDs concerned .

        3 .      For the purposes of carrying out Part B .2 of the Project, the MSP shall, not later
than December 31, 1996, enter into an agreement with AIBEF under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association .

        4.       Local authorities, community associations and NGOs shall provide services for
delivering the PMA program under Parts A .4, B .4. (v) and C .3 of the Project in accordance with
 the policies and procedures adopted pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule I to this
Agreement."

        Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating the form
of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided to you and returning one
countersigned original to us . Upon receipt by the Association of the countersigned original, this
Amendment shall become effective as of the date of countersignature .

                                         Sincerely yours,
                                               I
                                                    W
                                         Peter N.  Ngomba
                            Acting CountryAfrica
                                           Director for Cote d'Ivoire
                                                  Region

CONFIRMED :
REPUBLI      OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By:,
     Authorized Representative

:R,
Date       ~, joq-li ecE     

                                               -13-



                                                                           ATTACHMENT

                                         SCHEDULE 1

                           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

I .     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of theproceeds of
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category :
                                        Amount of the
                                       Credit Allocated                % of
                                         (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                               SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed

(I)  Civil works                            2,300,000             90%
     for all parts of the
     Project (except part D
     thereof)

(2)  Vehicles, furniture and/or                                   100% of foreign
     medical and other equipment   :                              expenditures and
                                                                  80% of local
                                                                  expenditures
    (a)   for all parts of                  3,200,000
    the Project (except
     Part D thereof)

    (b)   for Part D of the                   800,000
    Project

(3) Drugs and medical                       1,900,000             100% of foreign
    consumables                                                  expenditures and
                                                                  80% of local
                                                                 expenditures

(4) Consultants' services,                                        100%
    training, and audit :

    (a)   for all Parts of                  5,400,000
    the Project (except
    Part A .3 (b) and
    Part D thereof)

                                       - 14-


                                  Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated         % of
                                  (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                         SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed

    (b) for Part A .3 (b)            1,400,000
    of the Project

    (c)  for Part D of               2,300,000
    the Project

(5) Operating costs :                                70%

    (a)  for all Parts of the        1,900,000
    Project (except
    Part D thereof)

    (b) for Part D of the              500,000
    Project

(6) Refunding of Project               400,000       Amounts due pursuant
    Preparation Advance                              to Section 2 .02(c) of
                                                     this Agreement

(7) Unallocated                        600,000


           TOTAL                    20,700,000

