                                            Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 32227-BO

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (PPFI-Q1800 PPFI-Q1801 IDA-33780)

                                               ON A

                             LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.0 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                              FOR A

         HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
                                 CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                                          October 28, 2005




Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 2005)

                                           Currency Unit = Bolivianos
                                          Bolivianos 1.00 = US$ 0.123
                                                     US$ = 8.08 Bolivianos

                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                           January 1 -    December 31

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBH        Bolivian Chamber of Hydrocarbons
CCTI       Consejo de Coordinacion Tecnico Interinstitucional
           (Inter-institutional Technical Coordinating Council)
CDF        Comprehensive Development Framework
CIDOB      Confederacion Indigena del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia Boliviana
           (Indigenous Confederation of the Bolivian Eastern, Chaco and Amazonian Regions)
CRPC       (El Consejo Regional de Participacion y Consulta (Regional Council for Participation and Consultation)
CTR        Consejo Tecnico Regional (Regional Technical Council)
DO         Development Objective
DMA        Direccion de Medio-Ambiente ­(Directorate of Environmental Management)
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
FOBOMADE   Foro Boliviano de Medio Ambientey Desarrollo Economico
           (Bolivian Forum for Environment and Economic Development)
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
LIDEMA     Liga de Defensa del Medio Ambiente (Environmental Defense League)
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
OSCA       Oficina de Seguimiento y Control Ambiental (Office of Environmental Monitoring and Control)
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
SERNAP     Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National Service of Protected Areas)
TOR        Terms of Reference
UCSP       Unidad de Coordinaci6n y Seguimiento del Proyecto (Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit)
UMA        Unidad de Medio-Ambiente (Environmental Management Unit of VMEH)
VMEH       Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons (now Ministry of Hydrocarbons)
YPFB       Bolivian National Oil Company



                                          Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                                       Country Director       Marcelo Giugale
                                         Sector Manager       Sue Goldmark
                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Eleodoro Mayorga-Alba

                                           BOLIVIA
 Environmental Management Capacity Building Pilot Project of the Hydrocarbon Sector


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            31

Project ID: P065902                                                  Project Name: Environmental Management Capacity
                                                                     Building Pilot Project of the Hydrocarbon Sector
Team Leader: Eleodoro O. Mayorga Alba                                TL Unit: COCPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Environmental Management Capacity Building               L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1800;
                            Pilot Project of the Hydrocarbon Sector                                  PPFI-Q1801; IDA-33780
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (54%); Oil and gas (42%); Other
                            social services (4%)
                  Theme: Other environment and natural resources management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/04/1999                                     Effective: 01/02/2000                04/02/2001
     Appraisal: 08/16/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/05/2000                                      Closing: 12/03/2003                 04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA/VICE MINISTRY OF ENERGY &
                                           HYDROCARBONS (VMEH)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Peter A. Van Der Veen                          Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:             Eleodoro O. Mayorga- Alba                      Philippe J. Durand
ICR Primary Author:             Eleodoro O. Mayorga- Alba; Sati
                                Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The development objective (DO) of the US$5.8 million Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental
Management Capacity Building Project (funded by a Learning and Innovation Loan (Credit) - {LIL} in the
amount of US$4.8 million) was to improve the management of the social and environmental impacts of the
hydrocarbon sector, particularly of exploration, production and transport activities. To achieve this
objective, the project aimed to institutionalize systematic procedures for consultation and participation, as
well as mechanisms and dispositions for increased compliance by oil companies, an evaluation and
monitoring system that was both financially and institutionally sustainable, and a system which would
allow for the flow of accessible, transparent and timely information between all stakeholders.

Specifically, the project's sub-objectives were to: (a) strengthen the capacity of institutions and
communities involved in or affected by hydrocarbon sector activities to participate in the regulation and
mitigation of social and environmental impacts; (b) improve stakeholder access to relevant information in a
timely manner; (c) improve the capacity of the Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons (VMEH) for
on-site monitoring, evaluation, and reporting; (d) through field studies in problem areas, increase
knowledge of the extent of problems in the development and implementation of Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIAs) and increase compliance with EIAs and application of best practices by oil companies;
(e) analyze and develop mechanisms for financial sustainability of social and environment management; (f)
review and make compatible existing regulations and develop new regulations when necessary; and (g)
develop and pilot a participatory, institutional framework that would facilitate the processes described
above.

The DO was clear and important to the country's economic and social development. It was also timely and
appropriate to the needs of the Borrower, considering that the 1997 reform and capitalization of the
hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia, coupled with the access to the huge Brazilian natural gas demand had
intensified private sector investments in exploration/production and construction of pipelines. After the
reform, private oil companies were investing more than US$800 million per year, on average. This
represented more than ten times what YPFB, the Bolivian National Oil Company, had invested prior to its
capitalization. There were 17 oil companies active in exploration and production activities with a drilling
program of about 19 exploration wells a year. The 600 Km Bolivian section of the Bolivia-Brazil natural
gas pipeline was inaugurated on February 19, 1999 and gas export to Brazil began on July 1, 1999. Private
companies Shell and Enron were constructing a branch of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline to Cuiaba in Brazil.
Hydrocarbon sector activities at that time were occurring in five prefectures, nine indigenous people
community areas, and nine protected areas and resulted in significant social and environmental impacts.

Experiences in the sector demonstrated that there was a strong need for improved socio-environmental
management of hydrocarbon exploration, production and transportation activities. With limited human,
technical and financial resources, the government entities could provide only slow or inadequate response in
many of the ongoing cases. The quality of private investments in the hydrocarbon sector, which were vital
to the sustainable economic growth of Bolivia, could only be maintained over the long term if actions were
taken to address the lack of : (i) compliance with the social and environmental regulation requirements; (ii)
coordination and agreement between national, regional and local government agencies on respective roles;
(iii) financial sustainabilitv of the social and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector; (iv)
expertise, experience and validity of local consultants to support regulation and mitigation activities; (v)
credible consultation processes by oil companies and clear mechanisms for social compensation; (vi)
systematic processes of participation and information sharing among stakeholders; and (vii) a



                                                       - 2 -

socio-environmental management strategy to resolve problems. The project aimed to address these issues
by applying a process of learning and innovation.

As a LIL, the project design was not targetting immediate and specific objectives. Instead, it aimed to
apply a process of learning and innovation through pilot studies and analysis, information sharing,
inter-institutional coordination, and training to facilitate the consultation and development of mechanisms
for the institutionalization of stakeholder capacity to prevent, regulate and mitigate social and
environmental impacts of the hydrocarbon sector. In addition, the project aimed to test an inter-institutional
structure that would allow for the participation of relevant stakeholders from the government, industry, and
civil society at the national and local levels to ensure representative stakeholder participation in project
implementation activities. As this process was to be applied for the first time in Bolivia, it required
flexibility and adjustment as the project progressed.

Though the project was not mentioned as one of the key lending operations under the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bolivia, it was discussed in the Comprehensive Development Framework
(CDF) and was expected to contribute to the Opportunity Pillar by contributing to: (a) increasing and
maintaining physical productive infrastructure and the capacity of the public and private sectors to manage
it; and (b) strengthening the regulatory framework and promoting private participation. The project was
expected to specifically contribute to strengthening the key performance indicators of the CAS and CDF in
terms of mainstreaming environmental and social safeguard compliance in infrastructure projects.

 The project was very demanding for the Borrower because: (i) strong commitment from the government
was missing and the project faced serious counterpart funding problems throughout the implementation
period; (ii) lot of time and attention was required from VMEH staff beyond their normal activities,
especially in terms of preparing for CCTI (Consejo de Coordinacion Tecnico Interinstitucional
-Inter-institutional Technical Coordinating Council) meetings, bringing together five regions of CRPCs (El
Consejo Regional de Participacion y Consulta (former CTRs - Consejo Tecnico Regional -Regional
Technical Council), setting up the OSCA (Oficina de Seguimiento y Control Ambiental- Office of
Environmental Monitoring and Control) office in Santa Cruz, and preparing its strategy, procedures, and
schedules; (iii) the method of functioning of CCTI, made the implementation very challenging. It was
entrusted with the responsibilities such as approving the Terms of References (TORs) for consultants, and
evaluating the studies, and it was essential to have a consensus within the CCTI representatives at each
stage of the decision making process for proceeding with further actions. However, since CCTI consisted of
representatives with divergent opinions, criteria, and agendas, the implementation was rendered very
challenging and highly demanding. This difficult situation also made the Bank's supervision very
demanding.

The project was complex because of the participatory approach which involved several stakeholders
consisting of local, regional and national governments, different sectors within the government, several
regional and national institutions, private oil companies, Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and
civil society including indigenous communities. Further, as mentioned above, the consensus expected at
CCTI and CRPC levels made the project more complex.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:




                                                        - 3 -

The project consisted of four components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. The
implementation structure at VMEH was very strong. For example, DMA (Direccion de Medio-Ambiente ­
                                                                            1


Directorate of Environmental Management) had sufficient technical capacity, and UCSP (Unidad de
Coordinacion y Seguimiento del Proyecto -Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit) had adequate
administrative capacity for successful implementation of these components.


1/ DMA was formerly known as UMA -Unidad de Medio-Ambiente -Environmental Management Unit of VMEH




The following is a description of each one of the project's components.

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$2.6 million)

(1.i) Technical assistance for the regulation and mitigation of social and environmental
impacts of hydrocarbon activities entailed contracting specialized consultants (Environmentalist, Social
Scientist, Anthropologist, Ecologist, Petroleum Engineer, Agronomist, etc.) in the DMA in La Paz and the
OSCA in Santa Cruz de la Sierra (Red de Monitoreo) to ensure adequate prevention, regulation and
mitigation and in accordance with current regulations with TORs agreed upon with the Bank.

(1.ii) Training of government agency staff, civil society organizations, locally affected communities and
local consultants consisted of tailoring and testing training programs for participants of different levels of
knowledge and experience in social and environmental areas, focusing primarily on the aspects of
regulation and mitigation. Specific training programs were to be designed and planned with the inputs from
the CCTI in consultation with the CRPCs and local participants. Programs were tailored to specific
audiences (experts from the industry and government agencies, civil society institutions (green NGOs),
indigenous and non-indigenous communities and local consultants). All relevant stakeholders were expected
to provide their input into these programs (training scope, content, and methodology) and assess the success
of these programs.

(1.iii) Inter-institutional Coordination consisted of establishing the CCTI and the CRPCs and
implementing a series of workshops and seminars to facilitate the consultation and participation process in
several areas: (i) the compatibilization of regulations and operational procedures; (ii) the definition of
mechanisms for consultation and collaboration on specific social and environmental impact mitigation
plans; (iii) the definition of an accessible, transparent and timely information system; (iv) the definition of
the content and requirements for the training process; and (v) the development of sustainable financing
mechanisms for carrying out regulation and mitigation.

(1.iv) Consultation Workshops with Stakeholders consisted of workshops that were to be carried out,
under terms agreed upon by CCTI and CRPCs in consultation with other stakeholders for: (i) consultation,
feedback and collaboration on the specific studies, on their objectives, findings and recommendations; (ii)
planning, reviewing, and testing of processes to integrate stakeholders in decision-making and regulation
and mitigation activities; and (iii) on other matters adeemed necessary by agreement between CCTI and
CRPCs.

Component 2: Logistics and Communication (US$0.3 million)

This component consisted of the acquisition of essential equipment (vehicles, portable laboratories,


                                                       - 4 -

computers, etc.) to facilitate the on-site regulation and mitigation work of government agencies,
contributing to information sharing among all stakeholders. In addition, an information system/web-site
was to be implemented. This system aimed to make use of the information base being developed under
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) Credit 598 within the framework of the study Plan de Accion
Ambiental Sector Hidrocarburos which was being carried under the supervision of the DMA and
complemented the management information system which was being completed by consultants for VMEH
under a Japanese Grant Fund.

Component 3: Information Baseline and Studies (US$1.7 million)

This component formed a critical input to the institutional strengthening component and to the required
updating of the related environmental and social regulations. It consisted of various studies, which
included: (i) analysis and development of a mechanism for the sustainable financing of an improved social
and environmental regulatory framework; (ii) analysis and development of a strategy for the dissemination
of public information and systematic mechanisms for consultation and participation; (iii) analysis and
development of a proposal for compatibilized regulations, procedures, roles and functions; (iv) analysis and
design of strategies, mechanisms, manuals and procedures for social and environmental regulation and
mitigation; (v) analysis of social and environmental practices of oil companies and development of best
practice guidelines; (vi) carrying out of seven specific case studies, to be carried out by independent
reviewers with participation from diverse actors involved in the sector that are based on present and past
experiences in the hydrocarbon sector to identify social and environmental impacts and assess regulatory
response; and (vii) assessment of hydrocarbon sector contingency plans.

Component 4: Administration, Coordination and Monitoring (US$1.2 million)

This component provided for: (i) the creation of UCSP, which would be responsible for the coordination
and monitoring of the administrative progress of the project, (ii) external consultants which, in addition to
stakeholders, would provide an independent annual evaluation of progress achieved in relation to verifiable
performance indicators; and (iii) external audits.

3.4 Revised Components:

The debate on the new Hydrocarbon Law and, in general, the protests over the private companies' gas
investments and projects came in 2003, late in this project's life. In light of these developments, an
additional component was created towards the end of the project for conducting studies and financing
consulting work to support the preparation of the new Hydrocarbon Law, and to help the government in the
development of a consultation - information process and in the passage of a revised legal framework. It was
basically an appendix ­ an addition made with a minor relation to the main project objectives and scope.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project's overall quality at entry received a `Satisfactory' rating from the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). In arriving at this judgment, QAG underscored the innovative approach taken, the importance of
the issue being addressed, the high quality of social and environmental work done by the preparation team,
and the prospect of generating important and widely-useful ideas about improving governance in the
hydrocarbon sector.

A Satisfactory rating was assigned by QAG to the Bank Inputs and Processes, and five of the eight quality



                                                       - 5 -

dimensions, namely, Strategic Relevance and Approach; Fiduciary Aspects; Policy and Institutional
Aspects; Implementation Arrangements; and Risk Assessment and Management. Of the remaining three
quality dimensions, a Highly Satisfactory rating was given to the Poverty and Social Aspects and to the
Environmental Aspects. In this context, QAG remarked that the treatment of indigenous people was
particularly noteworthy. A Marginally Satisfactory rating was given to the technical, financial and
economic aspects. According to QAG, major shortcomings included the failure to pay adequate attention to
phasing of activities and follow-up beyond the project period, and inadequate economic rationale
underpinning the project.

As mentioned earlier, the project objective was consistent with the CDF and the government priorities and
met the critical needs of the hydrocarbon sector. Since DMA had the technical capacity, and UCSP the
administrative capacity, the quality of project design was adequate to meet the project's DO. During
preparation of the project, major risk factors were considered and incorporated into the project design. As
mentioned in Section 7.1, numerous local groups and green NGOs were consulted as part of project
identification and preparation. The ICR views these aspects as satisfactory

On the other hand, the project design was fraught with the following two major drawbacks:

         i)       Even though the concept of CCTI and CRPCs was an innovative mechanism of the
                  project, and the participation of its members in the selection of consultants and evaluation
                  of studies was important, decision level and functioning of CCTI should have been
                  designed in a more simplified and less bureaucratic manner. CCTI should not have been
                  vested with so much decision-making power at each stage of the participatory process,
                  such as for example, approving the TORs, selecting the consulting firms, and approving
                  by consensus, each of the draft and final reports and studies. In other words, the role of
                  CCTI could have been confined at a consultative level for making recommendations in
                  these processes. In hindsight, DMA should have been given the final decision-making
                  authority. This was all the more important especially for Bolivia, where there was no
                  participatory culture in decision-making processes, and also considering that many of the
                  institutions which participated in CCTI had their own divergent views and agenda, and
                  different interests and expectations. As a result, it was difficult to arrive at consensual
                  decisions, which delayed implementation.

         ii)      The project design should have tried to obtain a more significant participation of the Vice
                  Ministry of Environment under the Ministry of Sustainable Development. Since all the
                  environmental activities for which the assistance was provided were mainly in the hands of
                  the VMEH, and the Vice Ministry of Environment, which was a "competent environmental
                  authority", was not a key actor in the project, there was an obvious lack of commitment on
                  the part of this Ministry.

In light of these major shortcomings, the overall quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Unsatisfactory. The project was well conceived with a clear objective and an innovative approach. It was
relevant and responsive to address the country's needs at a crucial time. As mentioned in the text below, the
project created an indirect impact on several fronts related to hydrocarbon sector. However, its direct



                                                        - 6 -

impact was unsatisfactory because it suffered from several factors such as political instability, social
conflict, lack of consensus in CCTI and CRPCs, absence of government commitment, government's
financial austerity measures, lack of coordination within the Ministry of Economic Development and
institutional rivalry, and lack of cooperation between VMEH and the Ministry of Sustainable Development.


In this context, it is worth pointing out that, if the Bank is to embark on a project such as this in Bolivia or
any other country in the region, it is important to take timely and appropriate remedial measures to avoid
encountering above-mentioned adverse factors.

The details of the project's outcome are as follows:

(a) Strengthening the capacity of institutions and communities involved in or affected by hydrocarbon
sector activities to participate in the regulation and mitigation of social and environmental impacts.

The project was not successful in achieving this objective. However, as an indirect impact, it succeeded in
opening the hydrocarbon sector to institutions and communities affected by this sector, and initiating
communications channels, and making them aware of the activities going on in the sector. In particular the
indigenous peoples organizations of the Amazonian region that live near the oil operations and that
received a parallel training program through an ESMAP project have made significant progress in their
undertstanding of the sector. As such, many members in the groups and communities at the grass root level,
who were never aware of hydrocarbon laws, have come to know more about the new Hydrocarbon Law,
and the basics of hydrocarbon activities, and aware of the benefits and risks of the sector.

(b) Improving stakeholder access to relevant information in a timely manner.

This objective is still to be fully achieved. On one hand, the project helped in strengthening public
consultation on EIA, with the assistance of project-financed social scientists in La Paz and Santa Cruz, and
the participation of the public at grassroots level. On the other hand, even though a website has been
designed, it has not become operational and is not yet a realistic mechanism for the Bolivian situation. For
example, many stakeholders don't have access to the Internet, and even if they have, many of them are not
aware of this website. As a result, in spite of improved access to information in a passive manner during
EIA process, it is still difficult to get details if someone needs them. The project indeed required in addition
to the Internet site, an adequate aggressive communication effort.

(c) Improving the capacity of VMEH for on-site monitoring, evaluation, and reporting.

An office of OSCA was established at Santa Cruz, a cohesive group consisting of highly qualified technical
staff was recruited, and all relevant equipment were purchased exclusively for performing its functions
such as on-site monitoring, evaluation, and reporting. All procedures, and adequate plans were made, and
their activities and functions were planned well in advance of commencing its operations. The capacity of
VMEH was thus strengthened during project implementation, and the project was instrumental in creating a
strong presence in the field and making an impact on private oil companies, local and regional
governments, and local communities. However, this capacity is no longer sustainable, because all the
people who were capable of performing these functions at VMEH left the Ministry by the end of the project
after finishing their contracts. Further, the fiscal austerity measures did not allow for including the OSCA
personnel and related expenses in the last national budgets.

(d) Through field studies in problem areas, increasing knowledge of the extent of problems in the


                                                         - 7 -

development and implementation of EIAs and increasing compliance with EIAs and application of best
practices by oil companies.

The following three consultant studies were completed:

(i)     Development and design of Methodologies and instruments for the evaluation and control of the
social-environmental impact
(ii)    Evaluation of Environmental Regulations
(iii)   Development of a Best Environmental Practices Guide and an Action Plan for Contingencies in the
Hydrocarbons Sector
Analyzing and developing mechanisms for financial sustainability of social and environmental
management.

Due to lack of counterpart funding this study was not completed.

Reviewing and making compatible existing regulations and developing new regulations when necessary.

This activity consisted of three phases. Under the first phase of a diagnostic study, existing regulations
were reviewed. The second phase provided for a number of studies aiming at collecting best practices and
methodologies from more advance environmental regulatory systems and adapting them to Bolivia's
industry; some of these studies were completed. Finally the third phase which aimed to develop new
regulations could not be initiated due to the government's financial austerity measures.

(g) Developing and piloting a participatory, institutional framework that would facilitate the processes
described above.

TORs for this `Communication Strategy' were prepared together with CCTI, but this study was not
completed.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening.

(1.i) Technical assistance for the regulation and mitigation of the social and environmental impacts of
hydrocarbon activities.

At the VMEH office in La Paz, two social scientists, one agronomist, and one economist were contracted,
and at the OSCA office in Santa Cruz, one environmentalist, one social scientist, one chemical engineer,
one civil engineer, and one geologist were contracted.

In order to improve their functions on environmental control and management, DMA and OSCA developed
a strategic plan which consisted of the following activities: (i) Annual Plan of Activities; (ii) Quarterly
chronogram of activities; (iii) Manual of Operations, which included: (a) Procedures of pre-inspection,
inspection and post-inspection; (b) Formats for inspection acts; (c) Formats for inspection information; (d)
Protocols of sampling and measurement; (e) Measuring standard by activity, considering the stage of
execution of the project, which are applied as a uniform parameter of control to all the activities, works or
projects (AOPs) inspected.

In 2002 the services of an international consultant was contracted to revise the procedures, mechanisms and



                                                     - 8 -

instruments previously developed by the OSCA.

(1.ii) Training of government agency staff, civil society organizations, locally affected communities and
local consultants.

This activity was not conducted at all.

(1.iii) Inter-institutional Coordination.

CCTI and CRPCs were established and a total of 17 workshops and seminars were conducted from 2001 to
2004, to facilitate the consultation and participation process.

Achievement of this component is marginally satisfactory.

     Component 2: Logistics and Communication

Essential equipment, including vehicles, portable laboratories, and computers to facilitate the on-site
regulation and mitigation work of government agencies were acquired.

The information system was not implemented. Even though a website has been developed, it is not yet
operational because of hardware problems.

Achievement of this component is marginally satisfactory

Component 3: Information Baseline and Studies

Strategic studies: This consisted of: (i) a diagnosis of the environmental impacts generated by the
activities of the sector; and (ii) two Guides: one Guide for the elaboration of the studies of Evaluation of
Environmental Impact within the framework of the socio-environmental management; and the other Guide
for participation and consultation process.

Guide of Best Practices in Environment and a plan of action for contingencies for the Hydrocarbons
Sector: This included:

·        10 guides of Best Good Practices on subjects such as transport, exploration and exploratory
perforation, operation, road construction and rating of areas, installation and handling of camping,
environmental monitoring, transport and installation of equipment and presence of personnel.
·        A diagnosis and analysis of the capacity of the industry and the public institutions for the attention
of contingencies.
·        A plan of contingencies

Strategy of Communication: This consultancy could not be concluded, since the products
presented/displayed by the contracted company, did not fulfill the TORs.

Regional case studies: Case studies on the CRPCs of Parapitigüasu, Amazonía Beni - La Paz, Amboró
Block ­ Chiquitano, and Amazon were not completed.

Also see Section 4.1 (e)



                                                     - 9 -

Achievement of this component is unsatisfactory.

Component 4: Administration, Coordination and Monitoring

UCSP was created, and external consultants and external auditors were financed by the project.

Achievement of this component was unsatisfactory.

Component 5: Comparative Analysis Study

Three international experts completed this study which consisted of: (i) evaluating the conditions for
investment in the hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia; and (ii) a comparative analysis of the countries in the
region that compete with Bolivia for attracting investors.

Achievement of this component was satisfactory

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable


4.5 Institutional development impact:

Negligible. The project helped VMEH in incorporating the concept of socio-environmental management as
part of its responsibility and in enhancing its scope of activities related to monitoring and controlling the
industry. For example, it became better equipped to handle environment-related accidents, contingencies,
and complaints in a fast and dynamic manner. The project also helped in initiating dialogues on
environmental issues between private companies and civil society. With the creation of the OSCA in Santa
Cruz, and as a result of its field presence for three years, the public and affected communities are now
aware of the role of the government in the management of hydrocarbon sector, especially on environmental
management. The project also made oil companies realize that the government could be monitoring their
activities and that they would need to comply with the environmental regulations of the country.

The project exposed the different stakeholders to many topics which were new to the country. For example,
prior to the project, social and environmental methodologies, and consultation and compensation issues had
never been openly discussed in Bolivia. It also helped in strengthening the capability of the people who
were involved in the implementation of the project and improving their knowledge on hydrocarbon sector
issues.

The Ministry of Sustainable Development benefited during the execution of the project, not only for the
experience it gained, but also for the help it received from a stronger VMEH on technical matters in
managing environmental issues. The Diagnostic Study and the proposed modification of environmental
norms would be beneficial to this Ministry because many of the problems and issues identified in the
Diagnostic Study are related to it as well as to VMEH.



                                                   - 10 -

However, the temporary closing of the OSCA and the drastic reduction of the DMA personnel would make
the institutional development impact of the project negligible.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Social conflicts. During the entire project period, many times CCTI and CRPC meetings had to be
cancelled not only because the access to the sites selected for the meetings was blocked, but also because
the local participants of the meetings themselves were the ones blockading. In addition, in 2003 Bolivia had
two social disturbances with very strong political impacts, the first one on February, with several human
casualties, that destabilized the government and triggered the replacement of all Ministers. The second one
in October, much stronger and with more human casualties, resulted in the departure of President Gonzalo
Sánchez de Lozada.

Lack of consensus in CCTI and CRPCs. Many of the institutions which participated in CCTI had
divergent views, agendas, interests and expectations, and they were also at different levels of understanding
of hydrocarbon sector issues. As a result of this diversity, there was inordinate delay on the part of CCTI in
arriving at consensual decisions in the approval of TORs for consultants, evaluation of consulting firms,
and evaluation of studies. In addition, there was a lack of communication between the representatives of
CCTI and their respective institutions, which prevented a proper dissemination of information.

Similarly, the members of CRPCs were also at different wavelengths in their views and agenda, and many
of them did not clearly understand the objectives of the project, and they also lacked the proper knowledge
of hydrocarbon sector and environmental laws. Consequently, as in the case of CCTI, it was very difficult
to achieve consensual decisions.

However, the groups represented in the CCTI - and CRPs did not oppose the private gas projects; instead,
they were basically concerned with the improvement of the environmental and social regulations. The
groups that had led the protests were not intrinsically represented in these committees.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Political instability. During the three and half years of the project, the President of the country changed
four times, and there were eight different Ministers of Hydrocarbons. Especially in 2003, over six months,
when the CCTI and CRPCs were fully operational and the project was entering a critical phase, the
President changed twice and the Minister of Hydrocarbon changed four times. The frequent change of
Minister created instability in the sector and also on project implementation. Each time a new Minister was
appointed, he had to be appraised of the project and in many cases they did not have the time, interest, and
commitment to get involved with the project. In general, they were preoccupied with other higher priority
matters such as the proposed new Hydrocarbons Law or the increase of prices in industrial markets and its
impact in Bolivia, and other connected issues that afflicted the government as a whole. Further, there were
also frequent changes in personnel in the Ministry along with the change of Ministers, as each Minister
brought a new team along with him.

(ii) Because of the political situation, the project became effective only on April 2, 2001, after a delay of
ten months the project's closing date was extended three times for a total of 16 months. Because of the
frequent change of the President, administration, and the Minister of Hydrocarbons, and based on their



                                                      - 11 -

renewed commitment and agreement to provide the required counterpart funding, the first extension was
given for a period of nine months from December 2003 to September 2004. The second extension was
given for another three months to December 2004, for providing technical assistance to review the proposed
new Hydrocarbon Law. The justification for the third extension for a period of four months to April 2005
was for completing the existing project activities, including the work on a new Hydrocarbon Law.

(iii) Absence of government commitment. The absence of political will and commitment at a critical stage
of the project hampered the implementation and outcome. For example, serious counterpart funding
problems encountered during implementation was a reflection of the lack of political support for the
project.

The total counterpart funding for the project as of December 31, 2004 was only US$274,120 (27.4%)
instead of the originally agreed amount of US$1 million. This amount consisted of US$141252 in 2002,
US$84250 in 2003, and US$38608 in 2004. As a result, for example, it was not possible to maintain a
minimal capacity to monitor the environmental and social impacts or to complete all the studies and
stakeholders consultations neither for developing a new socio-environmental regulatory framework nor to
design and implement a training program for the main actors. In addition, because of the lack of budget
resources the VMEH was not able to preserve the project benefits.

(iv) The government's financial austerity measures in 2004 were another key factor which contributed to
the delay of budget approval, and also forced a significant salary level reduction, which triggered the
leaving of some key personnel.

(v) Lack of internal coordination. The Economic Development Ministry had a total lack of internal
coordination with the Vice-Ministry of Public Investment & External Financing and the Vice-Ministry of
Budget, which were in charge of approving the project's counterpart funding and budget. As a
consequence, only for two years the project had the counterpart approval and during the whole lifetime the
yearly budget approval was delayed for months. The worst case was in 2004, when the budget was
approved only in August, and the project was to be closed in September and the project staff had to work
without salaries until then.

(vi) Institutional rivalry and lack of cooperation between VMEH and the Ministry of Sustainable
Development. The struggle of the Ministry of Sustainable Development with VMEH to have the project
under its control also affected the project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Lack of coordination between UCSP and DMA. The project started with a lack of coordination between
UCSP and DMA. Even though the coordination was significantly improved afterwards, the mistakes done
during that period remained until the end of the project. Key issues like the preparation of the TORs for the
strategic studies, the selection processes and other long term decisions were established during this period.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$3.27 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$5.8 million. The
lower project cost was mainly due to cancellation of many of the project activities. The Bank financed
US$3.00 million (92.5%), and the government contributed US$0.27 million equivalent in local costs
(7.5%).




                                                      - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Unlikely. The overall sustainability of the project is rated as unlikely, in light of the government failure to
provide sufficient financial resources in the national budget for the Hydrocarbon Sector.

OSCA: In order to sustain the field presence of OSCA, the government in the budget for the year 2005 has
allowed the recruiting of two inspectors who will be posted in Santa Cruz for field inspections. They will be
reporting directly to the Director of DMA. The framework already established under the project for
conducting on-site monitoring, evaluation, and reporting will be useful for its future functioning. It is
expected that in the next annual budgets these funds will be kept. However, in the event of a relaunching of
investments in this sector, two inspectors will not be sufficient to cope with the basic monitoring tasks.

CCTI and CRPCs are not sustainable as they were already closed during the project's second extension
period. The government had decided by that time to close the program of studies and also not to proceed
with a new regulatory framework, and under these circumstances, CCTI and CRPCs were no longer
needed.

The Strategic Studies that were completed are being revised so that based on them, the sector
environmental regulations can be strengthened. It is considered feasible that in 2005, the Guides for Best
Practices and the Methodologies and Instruments could be validated through Supreme Decrees, as part of
the updating of the regulatory framework in accordance with the new Hydrocarbon Law.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

Further, the main aspect is the budgetary decisions. In the new Hydrocarbon Law, there is an article
providing for the deposit by the project developers of 0.5% of capital costs to the Ministry of Sustainable
Development. These funds that should be shared with the sector authorities, in particular with the DMA of
the Ministry of Hydrocarbons should allow better monitoring of environmental and social impacts. It is
expected that the regulation of this article of the law and the required authorization be made in an
expeditious way.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on identifying the critical issues in the hydrocarbon sector
and the project aimed to address these issues through an innovative approach. During preparation, there
were commendable efforts by the Bank to secure the agreement of the government, civil society, and the oil
industry to work together in mitigating the social and environmental impact of the country's rapid
development of its petroleum resources.

Numerous local groups and green NGOs were consulted as part of project identification and preparation.
The Environmental Dialogues, a conference between the Bank and stakeholders (national, regional and
local government agencies, oil companies, indigenous people organization representatives and non



                                                      - 13 -

governmental organizations), was organized in Santa Cruz in April 1999 to specifically discuss
hydrocarbon sector issues. The identification and preparation missions also met separately with the
National Chamber of Hydrocarbons which represents all oil companies working in Bolivia, the
Confederacion Indigena del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia Boliviana (Indigenous Confederation of the
Bolivian Eastern, Chaco and Amazon Regions - CIDOB), Capitania Indigena del Alto y Bajo Isozo
(Indigenous Group representing the Upper and Lower Isozo - CABI), the Liga de Defensa del Medio
Ambiente (Environmental Defense League - LIDEMA), the Foro Boliviano de Medio Ambiente y
Desarrollo Economico (Bolivian Forum for the Environment and Economic Development -
FOBOMADE), and Tropico.

During the preparation mission, project team members also met with consultants, the Servicio Nacional de
Areas Protegidas (National Service for Protected Areas - SERNAP), and representatives from the
municipal, prefecture and national level governments who have experience in evaluation and monitoring of
hydrocarbon operations. Additionally, three stakeholder workshops were held throughout project
preparation with over 40 different participants, including the above mentioned groups as well as
participants from the Superintendencia Forestal, GeoPlus, Conservation International - Bolivia, the World
Wildlife Fund - Bolivia, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Proyecto
KAA-IYA, among others. Project issues were also discussed during a meeting between local and
international environmental NGOs and the Bank's Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean.

The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia conducted a review in the UCSP of the accounting,
controls over disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative
staff.


7.2 Supervision:

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. QAG conducted a Quality of Supervision Assessment, which covered the first two years of
implementation (FY01 and FY02). Overall, it rated the quality of supervision for this project as
Satisfactory. QAG panel rated highly the experience and skill mix of the supervision team. It commented
that "mission frequency, resource allocation and collaboration with field staff were generally sound, and the
Aide Memoirs revealed a clear analysis and understanding of the different issues impeding implementation"


The ICR also rates the Bank's performance during the implementation of the project as Satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the four years of project implementation, there were seven supervision missions, with an
average of about two missions per year. Aide-Memoires, which were regularly prepared, identified different
implementation problems, and discussed them with the government and the implementing agencies. For
example, the serious concern in regard to the 'lack of commitment' from VMEH was clearly shared by both
the Bank's Sector Manager and Sector Leader, and communicated to the government. Consequently, the
Bank reached an agreement with the key sectoral ministry on an action plan in October 2001, aimed at
turning around implementation.

QAG had remarked that in the first two years of implementation, "there appeared to be a lack of vigorous
follow-up by the Bank in the period following this Action Plan with top policy makers in government,
seeking specific solutions to the weak commitment of VMEH. There was limited impact and effectiveness



                                                     - 14 -

of Bank actions at high levels of government in addressing the issues of ownership and weak sectoral
leadership in the key sectoral ministry". However, the ICR team is of the view that during the whole project
period, the Bank had tried its best to address these issues, but continuous change of administration and the
Minister of Hydrocarbons made it difficult for the Bank to follow-up on the Action Plan agreed with the
previous administration and the Minister of Hydrocarbons, and the task team had to start its efforts all over
again each time. Inspite of this limitation, the Bank had effectively built coalitions of support among key
stakeholders, including the industry and civil society.

The Project Status Report (PSR) ratings on performance of the project in terms of achievement of DO and
implementation were realistic. The Bank supervision team identified and timely advised the government on
the need to develop a consultation process and to contract international expertise to prepare the new
Hydrocarbon Law. Fiduciary aspects in the area of procurement and financial management were strong, as
was attention to environmental aspects of the project.

The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive. Supervision teams included specialists in
energy economics, petroleum engineering, social science, environment, financial management, and
procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
was committed to the objectives of the project. A number of essential project activities were initiated under
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which represented noteworthy moves towards achieving the DO.
DMA was staffed with the necessary technical consultants and field monitoring activities were carried out.
UCSP was fully staffed and had in place the necessary arrangements to initiate project activities, such as
the contracting of studies, training and other technical assistance. A financial management system,
acceptable to the Bank was established in the UCSP and it became operational before the end of the year
2000, including production of adequate project management reports. The participation and consultation
process was implemented through the establishment of the CCTI which met to discuss the contents of the
project and its internal regulations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory. Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. It must be noted that the
project was implemented at a critical time, when the government was more preoccupied with many
overwhelming tasks, such as the new Hydrocarbon Law, conducting a referendum, and dealing with social
unrest. This was not a propitious time for the government to focus on improving the country's
environmental management through a participatory process. Consequently, the project was only of
secondary importance and the government did not maintain its commitment during implementation. This is
demonstrated by: (i) huge deficit in providing the counterpart funding, which amounted to only 27.4% of
the agreed amount; and (ii) frequent change of Minister/Vice-Minister of Hydrocarbons. Another problem
encountered by the project was the lukewarm ownership of the project at the Ministerial level at VMEH
during much of implementation period.



                                                     - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of DMA, which was the responsible entity for monitoring and evaluation of
social and environmental impacts in the hydrocarbon sector, and also for providing technical guidance, was
satisfactory. It put together a well-knit team consisting of qualified and competent technical staff, which
performed technical supervisions very thoroughly and guided OSCA on technical matters. The contracted
staffs of the DMA, as well as the OSCA and UCSP were so dedicated that many of them even went to the
extent of continuing to work even when they were not paid their salaries for about nine months.

The performance of UCSP which provided administrative support for the project and was responsible for
procurement and disbursement operations was satisfactory. Except in the initial stages of implementation, it
operated in close coordination with the DMA. It prepared detailed work on project cost, and time schedule
on the activities of components. A Project ImplementationPlan (PIP) was also prepared in detail. Its quality
of financial management and procurement administration was satisfactory. UCSP was well organized and
effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of
the project. It was receptive to the Bank's advice, and collaborated well with the Bank during
implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory. Although the technical and administrative agencies were properly set-up and were
committed to the project objectives, the lack of political will at the Ministerial level made the overall
performance of the Borrower unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Country/Government-related:

·        For Bolivia's economic development, it is essential to explore and develop its oil and gas resources.
At the same time, it is equally important to address environmental and social problems associated with the
exploration, production, and commercialization of these resources. In light of the basic infrastructure and
mechanism laid out by the project, it will be important for the country to make use of them in order to
address these issues/problems.

·        The project had a good vision with innovative ideas. It was instrumental in developing a new
awareness in Bolivia on social, environmental, and cultural issues, especially in the field of the hydrocarbon
sector. Unfortunately, due to the prevailing political and social situation, the government's absence of
political will and commitment, and the complicated CCTI and CRPCs participatory mechanisms this vision
could not be fully materialized.

·        It is important for VMEH to improve its communication and coordination with the Ministry of
Sustainable Development, especially in light of the latter's responsibility for enforcing sanctions and
environmental standards on the industry.

Project-related:

·        The project demonstrated that with proper support, it is possible to create appropriate mechanisms
for environmental management. It also showed that oil companies, national and local governments, and



                                                     - 16 -

communities can work together for improving environmental management.

·        The project helped to identify important issues in the hydrocarbon sector. During implementation,
stakeholders overcame their prejudices, and were able to build a commom platform to build consensus on
these issues.

·        Good coordination and active involvement among the participants are very important for a project
such as this, where several stakeholders were involved.

·        This LIL project, although rated unsatisfactory for its implementation, is leaving very important
lessons for the government, stakeholders, and the Bank. The project has laid a good foundation for future
projects. It will be useful to review the lessons learned, factors which affected the implementation, and the
outcome and outputs of the project.

CCTI and CRPC-related:

·        Local communities should be given more importance than their national federation in the future
projects for activities such as monitoring and evaluation. For example, considering that CRPCs are
involved at the grass root level, they should be given the primary importance. By bringing oil companies,
local communities, local and regional governments together to discuss their needs and common problems, it
is possible to create better links with the local, regional, and national authorities. On the other hand, on
matters such as passing new laws and regulations, the role of national federation is very important.

·        Only those NGOs which genuinely represent civil society should be included as members of
institutions such as CCTI and CRPC. Even then, their role should be more as facilitators rather than as
decision makers.

·        The concept of CRPCs and CCTI was a good idea. However, in practice, they did not work out
well. Instead of becoming a forum for consultation and consensual decisions, they became places for
making different kinds of demands from the participants. The decision to contract "advisors" for certain
institutions did not improve their commitment to the project objectives.

·        One of the better ways to train indigenous people on environmental management will be to provide
them work in a regional organization such as OSCA, which would give them the opportunity to gain
hands-on work experience in this area. This method may also give them an opportunity to appreciate the
government's points of view and look at the government more as a partner rather than as an enemy.

·        It is important for the government to give good support to indigenous people at the grass root level
in order to ensure their long-term sustainable development, even after the oil companies leave their
territories once they complete the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbon resources.

Bank-related:

·        Government Commitment. The Bank should launch a project such as this in Bolivia or any other
country in the region, only after getting a firm commitment from the government to the project.

Active participation of the Bank's specialists on environment and social science during the implementation
of the project is very important, especially when the project is going through difficult times.



                                                       - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

A.       The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Eleodoro Mayorga-Alba             Task Team Leader
Sati Achath                       Consultant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i)      Chakib Khalil
(ii) Philippe Durand
(iii) Eleodoro Mayorga-Alba

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

Philippe Durand                   Lead Energy Specialist
Lourdes Linares          Financial Management Specialist

Mario Cadia                       Secretary General, VMEH
Paulo Uzin                        Director, DMA
Adolfo Viscarra                   Acting Coordinator/Director, UCSP
Ernesto Mealla                    Ex- Director, DMA
Carlos Portecarrero               Ministry of Municipalities
María del Carmel Hidalgo          Ministry of Municipalities
José Coello                       SERNAP
Berlinha Paiva                    SERNAP
Jenny Gruenberger Perez           LEDEMA
Teresa Flores                     LEDEMA
José Lorini                       LEDEMA
Isabel Ortuno Ibanez              Legal Advisor, DGMA
Sergio Nana Orellana              Manager, DGMA
Verónica Lopez                    Ex-Consultant, VMEH
Armando Viruez                    CBH
Brigette de Herrera               TRANSREDES SA
Nelson Vaca                       TRANSREDES SA
Katia Vega                        Legal Counsel, CIACO



                                                   - 18 -

Jaime González     CIDOB
Marcelo Ona        Legal Advisor, MACA
Marianela Curri    Ex-Vice Minister of Sustainable Development
Mónica Castro      Ex-Consultant, VMEH




                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators:

       Indicator          Projected in SAR/PAD   Actual/Latest Estimate
                          End of Project
Improvement in the
presence of UMA in                              In 2004, OSCA performed 22
field monitoring.                               inspections, consisting of 19
Percentage of Category                          planned inspections and 3
I projects visited. Cat.                        inspections to incidents or
I refers to the level of                        local requirements
Integrated
Environmental Impact
Assessment that
includes detailed
analysis.
Improvement in the                              Lacking operational funds, the
presence of UMA in                              UMA has not been able to
field monitoring.                               supervise any project in 2004
Percentage of Category
II projects visited. Cat.
II refers to the level of
Environmental Impact
Assessment according to
the incidence of factors.
Improvement in the                              Lacking operational funds, the
presence of UMA in                              UMA has not been able to
field monitoring.                               supervise any project in 2004.
Percentage of Category
III projects visited. Cat
III refers to the level
that requires mitigation
measures and an
Environmental
Monitoring Action Plan
for specific aspects.
Improvement in the                              20% some improvement on desk
presence of UMA in                              procedures. Lacking operational
field monitoring.                               funds, the UMA has not been
Percentage of                                   able during 2004 to receive and
complaints addressed.                           respond to complaints
Increased number of                             25% - There has been no
projects are in                                 supervision to identify a higher
compliance with EIA                             compliance record during 2004
standards.
Dissemination of EIAs                           The website is operational, but
for hydrocarbon projects                        lacking funds it has not been
by UMA through a                                updated
website and the LaPaz
and Santa Cruz offices.
CCTI and CTRs                                   Both CCTI and CTRs has not
function effectively.                           function effectively; no payment
                                                was made to the proposed
                                                advisors for much of 2004.
                                                Since October 1004 both



                                                 - 20 -

                                               comittees have been
                                               desactivated



Output Indicators:

       Indicator         Projected in SAR/PAD   Actual/Latest Estimate
Recommendations for                            The strategic studies that will
a framework to make                            provide the basis for the
compatible rules and                           changes in the regulations
regulations for                                were not executed. No
improved social and                            discussion of new regulations
environmental                                  took place in the CCTI or
management of the                              CTRs.
hydrocarbon sector
result from study,
analysis and
discussion with
CCTI/CTRs and other
stakeholders.
Preparation of a                               The TORs for this study were
proposed mechanism for                         discussed at the CCTI but this
financial and                                  study was not executed
institutional
sustainability social and
environmental
managementof
hydrocarbon sector .
TORs for the analysis
approved by the CCTI,
study initiated and
recommendations
agreed upon with all
stakeholder
Completion and                                 0% - The TORs were discussed
dissemination of case                          but the case studies themselves
studies with                                   were not executed.
participation by
multiple stakeholders
from government and
civil society.




                                                - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                                               Annex 2a

Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

 Project Component    Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                                                  Appraisal
Institutional                                                       70.1
Strengthening               2.38                 1.67

Logistics and                                                        82.7
Communication               0.29                 0.24

Information Base and                                                 37.9
Studies                     1.53                 0.58

Coordination and                                                     70.9
Monitoring                  1.10                 0.78

Total Baseline Cost         5.30                 3.00               56.6


Physical                    0.25
Contingencies

Price Contingencies         0.25

Total Project Costs         5.80                 3.27                56.3




                                          - 22 -

                                                                                        Annex 2b

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)*

 Expenditure                Procurement Method                     Procurement Method
 Categories                 Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                 ICB      NCB      Other   NBF      Total   IC    NCB      Other   NBF  Total
                                                            B
1 Works
2 Goods                   0.30             0.10     0.40          0.27                   0.27
                         (0.25)                    (0.25)
3 Services                         5.40             5.40                   3.00          3.00
                                  (4.55)           (4.55)                 (3.00)        (3.00)
4 Misc.
Total                     0.30     5.40    0.10     5.80          0.27     3.00          3.27
                         (0.25)   (4.55)           (4.80)                 (3.00)        (3.00)




*Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing
  procedures, consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other
  miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and
  details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.



                                              - 23 -

                                                                                     Annex 2c

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Component        Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
                Bank  Gover     Co-     Bank    Govern-      Co-     Bank  Govern-     Co-
                       n-     financier          ment      financier        ment     financier
                      ment
Institutional
Strengthening  2.13   0.47              1.40     0.27                65.7     57.4
Logistics and
Communication  0.28   0.04              0.24                         85.7
Information
Base and
Studies        1.48   0.20              0.58                         39.1
Coordination
and Monitoring 0.91   0.29              0.78                         85.7




                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Supervision

              10/21/2000               7    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            OPERATIONAL ANALYST (1);
                                            HYDROCARBON SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CIVIL SOCIETY
                                            COORDINA (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ASSISTANT
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              10/21/2000               8    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (2); SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CIVIL SOCIETY SPEC. (1);
                                            FINAN. MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              10/10/2001               6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CIVIL SOCIETY COORD. (1);
                                            FMS (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SEPCAILIST (1)
              12/18/2001               1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              06/21/2002               4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1); CIVIL SOCIETY (1)
              01/22/2003               3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              01/22/2003               3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL EXPERT
                                            (1); FINANCIAL EXPERT (1)
              01/22/2003               2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              01/22/2003               5    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               U
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            EXPERT (1); SOCIAL EXPERT
                                            (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALISR
                                            (1)



                                             - 26 -

               01/22/2003                      1   TASK MANAGER (1)                   U    U


 ICR
               May 2005                        2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                                    CONSULTANT (1)

SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                                     NA                         292.6
  ICR                                             NA                           20.0
  Total                                           NA                         312.6




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

2. Project Progress Reports

3. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated, March 2005

4. Project Appraisal Document for Bolivia for a Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental
Management Capacity Building Project, dated May 30, 20000 (Report No. 20389-BO)

5.Consultant Report: Analysis of the Hydrocarbon Law of the Republic of Bolivia

6. Consultant Report: Fiscal and Administrative Regime of Hydrocarbon Sector of Bolivia




                                                 - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's Evaluation Report]


OBJETIVO ORIGINAL

El objetivo del proyecto, era desarrollar metodologías e instrumentos de evaluación, monitoreo y
seguimiento de impactos a través de procedimientos participativos de control y seguimiento socio
ambiental, con la finalidad de coadyuvar en la aplicabilidad de la normativa ambiental vigente, mejorar los
estándares ambientales y socio ambientales y generar espacios de consulta y participación de los diferentes
actores; incrementando de esta forma seguridad y calidad de las inversiones.
Específicamente, el proyecto debería : (a) Fortalecer la capacidad de las instituciones y comunidades
involucradas o afectadas por las actividades del sector hidrocarburos para que participen en la regulación y
mitigación del impacto ambiental y social; (b) mejorar el acceso de los actores a información relevante de
manera oportuna (c) mejorar la capacidad del VMEH para la evaluación, elaboración de informes y el
monitoreo en sitio; (d) a través de estudios de campo en áreas problemáticas, incrementar el conocimiento
sobre el alcance de problemas en el desarrollo y la implementación de evaluaciones petroleras de mejores
practicas; (e) analizar y desarrollar mecanismos para la Sostenibilidad financiera del manejo ambiental y
social; (f) revisar las regulaciones existentes, compatibilizar desarrollando regulaciones nuevas; (g)
desarrollar y llevar adelante un marco institucional, participativo para facilitar el proceso descrito arriba.

COMPONENTES ORIGINALES:

       Componente N.1: Fortalecimiento Institucional

Destinado a incrementar las capacidades e institucionalizar el proceso de consulta con las partes
interesadas. Este componente incluyó, los siguientes sub - componentes:

     Asistencia Técnica para al regulación y mitigación de los impactos socio ambientales de las
     actividades Hidrocarburíferas. (US$ 1.3 Millones)

      Coordinación Interinstitucional (US$ 0.8 millones)

 Talleres de Consulta con los Involucrados.(US$ 0.3 millones)

Componente N.2: Logística y Comunicación ­ US$ 0.3 millones

Este componente consistió en la adquisición de los equipos esenciales (vehículos, laboratorios portátiles,
computadoras, etc.) para facilitar la evaluación y el seguimiento in-situ, así como el uso compartido de la
información con las partes interesadas. En adición, un sistema de información a través de web-site seria
implementado. Este sistema podría utilizar la información básica que esta siendo desarrollada del estudio
denominado Plan de Acción Ambiental del Sector Hidrocarburos (PAASH), que es llevado a cabo con la
supervisión de la UMA del VMEH y ser complementado con el Sistema de Información Gerencial del
VMEH. (Ver Anexo N.5 Cronograma de Actividades Componente 2 de Logística y Comunicación)

Componente N.3: Información Básica y Estudios ­ US$ 1.7 millones ­ Línea de Base y Estudios

       Este componente se constituyó en un insumo al componente de fortalecimiento institucional y
       consiste en varios estudios.



                                                     - 31 -

Componente N.4: Administración, Coordinación y Seguimiento - US$ 1.2 millones

1.      Este componente previo : i) la creación de la Unidad de Coordinación y Seguimiento de Proyecto
(UCSP), responsable de la coordinación y monitoreo general del proyecto: ii) evaluación externa, en
adición a la realizada por los involucrados, previendo una evaluación independiente del progreso alcanzado
con relación a los indicadores de desempeño, iii) auditorias externas. (ver Anexo N.8 Componente N.4
Administración, Coordinación y seguimiento).

COMPONENTES REVISADOS

Ante la coyuntura del sector hidrocarburos en Bolivia durante la gestión 2004, el Gobierno Central,
requirió adquirir información que permita la toma de decisiones con relación a la normativa
hidrocarburífera aplicable a las empresas transnacionales que operan o están dispuestas a operar en
Bolivia. También requirió saber sobre las ventajas comparativas y competitivas con respecto a otros
países.

Por lo cual, con el objetivo de contar con una opinión independiente del mas alto nivel, con elementos de
comparación sobre las reformas institucionales, legales e impositivos que Bolivia esta realizando y poder
compararlos con otros países productores de petróleo y gas el prestatario propuso un nuevo componente al
organismo financiador, el cual, durante la misión de agosto del 2004 confirmó su no objeción para que se
financie con fondos del proyecto esta nueva actividad tendiente a obtener opiniones de tres expertos
internacionales con respecto al borrador de la nueva ley de hidrocarburos.

Los consultores elaboraron un análisis comparativo de la "Ley de Hidrocarburos" a fin de evaluar las
condiciones para inversión en el sector hidrocarburífero de Bolivia, realizaron un estudio comparativo de
los países que compiten con Bolivia en atraer inversionistas, preferentemente países de Sudamérica.

La opinión de los consultores se basó en el análisis comparativo e incluyó tópicos tales como:

a)      Impuestos: donde se contemplan el destino de los mismos; si los royalties deberían ser aplicados
por áreas de producción, análisis sobre los ingresos impositivos, impuestos ejecutivos, impuestos en
cascada, compensaciones impositivas relacionadas con los precios de los productos finales para consumo
interno, royalties por exploración, explotación o reservas y consumo específico.

b)      Institucional: Relacionado con la normativa legal sobre las relaciones entre el país y los
inversionistas, las áreas otorgadas en concesión para exploración, explotación y áreas con reservas. Tipos
de contratos para concesiones, si deben ser gratuitos u onerosos, joint ventures y legislación laboral.

c)      Estabilidad Jurídica: La apreciación de los inversionistas sobre la efectiva aplicación de la ley y
cómo los cambios políticos y sociales pueden afectarla. También debe incluir un análisis de las leyes sobre
relaciones laborales, la estabilidad de las leyes impositivas, contratos con posibles inversionistas e
independencia de los reguladores de precios y de la autoridad estatal y política.

Fue recomendable que los consultores no solamente comparen los marcos propuestos para Bolivia, sino
también que trabajen en una serie de recomendaciones específicas para favorecer el desarrollo del sector
hidrocarburífero en Bolivia a mediando y largo plazo, a fin de maximizar el cobro de impuestos por el
estado.


                                                     - 32 -

El análisis comparativo se basó en la documentación que la República de Bolivia, a través del Ministerio de
Minería e Hidrocarburos y el Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico, envió a los consultores por una persona
previamente autorizada. La información sobre otros países se obtuvo por los consultores a través de otras
fuentes como entrevistas, formales o informales, con los operadores privados en Bolivia u otros
inversionistas.

A fin de obtener una contribución real para la toma de decisiones en relación al cobro de impuestos, el
análisis incluyó los efectos que los cambios en las leyes impositivas ocasionaron en la estabilidad fiscal en
Bolivia.

Los consultores asistieron a reuniones en La Paz, Bolivia, durante la segunda semana del mes de Diciembre
de 2004, donde informaron sobre los resultados obtenidos del análisis y el trabajo preparado. A esta
reunión también asistieron los miembros del Gobierno, YPFB, Poder Legislativo, sociedad civil y
ejecutivos del Banco Mundial.

Los consultores emitieron un documento final sobre las conclusiones de su trabajo con recomendaciones o
propuestas para estudios adicionales, relacionados a la toma de decisiones sobre los inversionistas según
términos de referencia.

4.1      CUMPLIMIENTO DEL OBJETIVO GENERAL

Se han desarrollado metodologías e instrumentos de evaluación, monitoreo y seguimiento de impactos a
través de procedimientos participativos de control y seguimiento socio ambiental, con la finalidad de
coadyuvar en la aplicabilidad de la normativa ambiental vigente. Se ha logrado mejorar los estándares
ambientales y socio ambientales y generar espacios de consulta y participación de los diferentes actores;
incrementando de esta forma seguridad y calidad de las inversiones.

Específicamente, durante el desarrollo del proyecto: (a) se ha logrado fortalecer la capacidad de las
instituciones y comunidades involucradas o afectadas por las actividades del sector hidrocarburos para que
participen en la regulación y mitigación del impacto ambiental y social; (b) se ha logrado mejorar el acceso
de los actores a información relevante de manera oportuna (c) se ha logrado mejorar la capacidad del VMH
para la evaluación, elaboración de informes y el monitoreo en sitio; (d) a través de estudios de campo en
áreas problemáticas, se ha logrado incrementar el conocimiento sobre el alcance de problemas en el
desarrollo y la implementación de evaluaciones petroleras de mejores practicas; (e) no se ha logrado
analizar y desarrollar mecanismos para la sostenibilidad financiera del manejo ambiental y social; (f) se ha
logrado revisar las regulaciones existentes, pero no se ha logrado compatibilizar, ni se han desarrollado
regulaciones nuevas; (g) se ha logrado desarrollar y llevar adelante un marco institucional, participativo,
pero el mismo ha significado un obstáculo al desarrollo del proyecto.

CUMPLIMIENTO POR COMPONENTES

Componente Institucional

Resultados

Para el desarrollo de sus funciones, la DMA-OSCA cuenta con los siguientes instrumentos de planificación
y operativos:




                                                     - 33 -

    Plan Estratégico de Seguimiento y Control Ambiental.
    Plan Anual de Actividades.
    Cronogramas trimestrales de actividades.
    Manual de Operaciones, que incluye:
Ø        Procedimientos de pre-inspección; inspección y post-inspección.
Ø        Formatos para actas de inspección.
Ø        Formatos para informes de inspección.
Ø        Protocolos de muestreo y medición.
Ø        Medidas estándar por actividad, considerando la etapa de ejecución del proyecto, las cuales son
aplicadas como un parámetro uniforme de control a todas las actividades, obras o proyectos (AOPs)
inspeccionados.

Conclusiones del Componente 1

En este Componente se ha cumplido satisfactoriamente con los indicadores de desempeño e impacto
desarrollados bajo la supervisión del Banco Mundial para el sistema de seguimiento y control ambiental de
la DMA para las gestiones 2001, 2002, 2003 y 2004.

Cabe señalar que el enfoque de contar con una oficina que se dedique exclusivamente al seguimiento y
control ambiental, ha hecho con que la retroalimentación emergente de estas actividades hacia la
prevención, haya sido muy limitada.

No se han podido lograr los recursos para mantener dicha oficina con las dimensiones que tuvo durante la
ejecución del proyecto.

Sin embargo, la presencia en campo lograda por la OSCA ha marcado un hito muy significativo en lo que
hace a la Gestión Ambiental, tanto a nivel del sector hidrocarburos, como en el resto de los sectores. Por
una parte, se ha logrado concienciar a las empresas que ahora saben que sus acciones son verificadas
in-situ. Por otra parte, se ha logrado establecer cierto marco de confianza en las instancias estatales para la
población, la cual se siente escuchada y atendida en caso de denuncias.

Componente de Flexiblidad

    Para lograr el componente de flexibilidad el Proyecto LIL, se planteo como meta conformar y
    consolidar instancias organizativas que contribuyan desde sus ámbitos de competencias, de sus
    experiencias y conocimientos a la realización de los estudios estratégicos. Dentro del marco del
    Proyecto LIL, se conformo dos instancias organizativas:
·        Consejo Técnico Interinstitucional (CCTI).Dicho Consejo, se caracterizó por ser una instancia de
carácter nacional, de consulta y participación, con capacidad de de decisión en los componentes de de
capacitación y estudios estratégicos del Proyecto.

·        El Consejo Regional de Participación y Consulta (CRPCS). Es un espacio de carácter regional que
posibilita a los representantes de la sociedad civil organizada, instituciones públicas a nivel regional y
empresas petroleras proponer, analizar y consultar en las actividades del Proyecto LIL.

    Estudios Estratégicos

·        Diseño y elaboración de metodologías e instrumentos de evaluación y control del impacto socio



                                                      - 34 -

ambiental generado por las actividades del Sector Hidrocarburos.

            Resultados

o       El Viceministerio cuenta con:Un diagnóstico de los impactos socio ambientales generados por las
actividades del sector.Dos guías: Guía de elaboración para la elaboración de los estudios de Evaluación de
Impacto Ambiental en el marco de la Gestión Socio Ambiental Sectorial y Guía para la Participación y
Consulta.

o       Está aun pendiente el desarrollo de:Instrumentos, metodologías y procedimientos para la
elaboración de los estudios de Evaluación de Impacto Ambiental en el marco de la Gestión Socio
Ambiental Sectorial.

·       Elaboración de Guías de Buenas Prácticas socio ambientales y de un plan de acción para
contingencias para el Sector Hidrocarburos.

        Resultados:
o       El Viceministerio cuenta con:
§       10 guías de Buenas Prácticas en temas relativos Transporte, Exploración y Perforación
Exploratoria, Explotación, Construcción de Caminos y Habilitación de de Áreas, Instalación y Manejo de
Campamentos, Monitoreo Ambiental, Transporte e Instalación de Equipo y Presencia de Personal,
Restauración, Exploración: Prospección Sísmica y Refinación.
§       Un diagnóstico y análisis de la capacidad de respuesta de la industria y de las instituciones
públicas para la atención de contingencias.
§       Un Plan de contingencias

·       Estrategia de Comunicación.


        Resultados:
o       Dicha consultoría no pudo ser concluida, puesto que los productos presentados por la empresa
contratada, no cumplió con los requerimientos técnicos establecidos en los TDRs y en la propuesta técnica
presentada por la empresa TIRONI Y ASOCIADOS.

·       Estudios de Caso Regionales:

        Como parte de la participación de los CRPCs y dentro del marco del Proyecto de aprendizaje e
        innovación. Estas instancias regionales, propusieron realizar algunos estudios de caso regionales
        con problemáticas relacionadas a la Gestión Ambiental Sectorial.

        Estos estudios de caso a ser desarrollados servirían en una primera instancia a los estudios
        estratégicos del Proyecto y posteriormente serían trabajados como lecciones aprendidas o guías de
        buenas prácticas.

        Los Objetivos y los Estudios de Caso por CRPC, son los siguientes:
·       CRPC Parapitigüasu

            Resultados:Para el desarrollo de este estudio, se realizó la convocatoria para la expresión de



                                                   - 35 -

            interés, se seleccionó con los representantes del CRPC mencionado a los consultores que
            enviaron sus expresiones. Posteriormente y por problemas externos al proyecto no se pudo
            realizar a la apertura de los sobres.

·       CRPC Amazonía Beni ­ La Paz

            Resultados: Para el desarrollo de este estudio, se realizó la convocatoria para la expresión de
            interés, se seleccionó con los representantes del CRPC mencionado a los consultores que
            enviaron sus expresiones. Posteriormente y por problemas externos al proyecto no se pudo
            realizar a la apertura de los sobres.

·       CRPC Bloque Amboró ­ Chiquitano
            Resultados:Para el desarrollo de este estudio, se realizó la convocatoria para la expresión de
            interés, se seleccionó con los representantes del CRPC mencionado a los consultores que
            enviaron sus expresiones. Posteriormente y por problemas externos al proyecto no se pudo
            realizar a la apertura de los sobres.
·       CRPC Cabeceras del Amazonas

            Resultados: Para el desarrollo de este estudio, se realizó la convocatoria para la expresión de
            interés, se seleccionó con los representantes del CRPC mencionado a los consultores que
            enviaron sus expresiones. Posteriormente y por problemas externos al proyecto no se pudo
            realizar a la apertura de los sobres.

Componente de Capacitación

        Resultados:Se cuenta con las necesidades de capacitación por grados de complejidad, tipos de
población y por temas relativos a la gestión ambiental sectorial de los diferentes actores metas del Proyecto
LIL.
·       No pudo continuarse con el desarrollo de este componente inicialmente debido a la falta de
inscripción del presupuesto y posteriormente debido a la falta de tiempo una vez que el mismo fue inscrito.

5.      FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN Y RESULTADOS

5.1     FACTORES FUERA DE CONTROL DE LA UNIDAD DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN

El Proyecto LIL ha permitido consolidar la creación de una oficina de control y seguimiento ambiental
OSCA en la ciudad de Santa Cruz, con facultades y atribuciones que la Ley de Medio Ambiente les otorga,
también se realizaron los estudios estratégicos que permitieron revisar la normativa existente y hacerla mas
participativa. Sin embargo, los acontecimientos acaecidos en el país en la gestión 2003 como el cambio de
gobierno y por ende los constantes cambios de autoridades en el sector durante la ultima gestión, situación
que retrasaba el avance del proyecto, por cuanto, cada uno de las autoridades debía interiorizarse de los
objetivos que perseguía el proyecto para darle continuidad; concluyendo que dichas autoridades tenían
otras prioridades emergentes en el sector como por ejemplo la Ley de Hidrocarburos y otros temas conexos
que afligían al gobierno en su conjunto.

De la misma forma, es importante señalar que el "modus operandi" del CCTI con respecto a la
internalización del proyecto en sus respectivas instituciones no logró el suficiente acercamiento con sus
autoridades ni la    difusión requerida para compartir criterios de opinión y avance en los diferentes
estamentos de sus estructuras gubernamentales; situación que repercutió en el relacionamiento y


                                                   - 36 -

cumplimiento de objetivos con respecto a los CRPCs como ser la participación social a través de las
sociedad civil y entidades públicas y privadas.

Estos hechos, desencadenarón un retraso extremo en el normal desenvolvimiento de cumplimiento de
objetivos originales al cierre del crédito, logrando parcialmente el cumplimiento de objetivos que alcanzan
aproximadamente a un 52% de lo previsto.

5.2      FACTORES GENERALMENTE BAJO EL CONTROL DE GOBIERNO

Uno de los factores influyentes para que los resultados trazados a lo largo de la implementación del
gobierno se haya visto perjudicado fue el retraso en la inscripción del presupuesto tanto de recursos
externos como de contrapartida por falta de voluntad política durante la ultima etapa del proyecto, así
como también a lo largo de su desarrollo, debido a la falta de recursos de contrapartida que fueron
comprometidos por el prestatario, siendo una de las dificultades mas importantes en el desarrollo normal
del proyecto para resolver oportunamente acciones emergentes.
Esta falta de recursos para gastos operativos fue teniendo una incidencia muy seria en el funcionamiento
de la Dirección de Medio Ambiente, y de la Unidad de Coordinación y Seguimiento del Proyecto, y en la
ejecución de actividades de monitoreo por parte de la OSCA.

En términos monetarios podemos señalar que hasta diciembre del año 2004 el prestatario, desembolso
alrededor de $us. 280.000.- equivalente solo al 28% del monto comprometido.

La gestión 2004 se caracterizó por ser un período conflictivo, por cuanto, las actividades programadas del
proyecto según el plan de implementación se vieron retrasadas por la aplicación del Decreto de Austeridad,
repercutiendo en un considerable retraso en el pago a consultores, servicios y estudios contratados en razón
de que el Proyecto no fue registrado en el Presupuesto Nacional. Esto hizo imposible cumplir con las
metas del plan de implementación acordado junto con la extensión de la fecha de cierre a septiembre 2004.
En estas condiciones y tomando en consideración las dificultades políticas por las que atravesó el país en el
pasado inmediato. El gobierno decidió terminar el Proyecto a la fecha de cierre establecida, consciente de
que los objetivos planteados solo se cumplieron en un 52% según los indicadores.

Durante el mes de Agosto del año 2004; se procedió con la inscripción del presupuesto pero únicamente
los recursos externos, vale decir, un monto equivalente a 976.748 US$ y se efectivizó por parte del
Ministerio de Minería e Hidrocarburos el reintegro de los gastos inelegibles, pendientes desde la gestión
2002. Añadiendo además una nuevo componente dentro del proyecto, la asistencia técnica para la nueva
ley sectorial por US$75.000, monto que se financió con recursos externos sin que esto cambie el monto
total original del convenio de crédito.

Por lo expuesto anteriormente, podemos señalar que la voluntad política del Prestatario no fue suficiente
para coadyuvar con el desarrollo del proyecto, pero básicamente las deficiencias y problemas señalados se
debieron a factores sociales, económicos y políticos, como también externos, por los que atravezó el país
los cuales afectaron todo el sistema fiscal y económico.

5.3      FACTORES BAJO EL CONTROL DE LA UNIDAD DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN

Durante la ultima etapa del proyecto, se tuvo que mantener una estructura administrativa disminuida por la
renuncia del Director de la UCSP, sin que se haya logrado tener un reemplazo inmediato ni mucho menos
una designación formal en forma interina, es decir, la dubitación por parte del Ejecutivo hizo que no se
completara la acefalía presentada teniendo en determinados momentos hasta dos responsables a cargo del


                                                     - 37 -

proyecto nominados verbalmente; situación que provocó desfaces en la toma de decisiones, ya que a partir
de este suceso se creó una pesada burocracia dentro del mismo proyecto y el ente ejecutor que retrasaron
las soluciones a los problemas planteados, ocasionando, en la OSCA la renuncia de consultores entre los
cuales se encontraba el Coordinador.

5.4     COSTO Y FINANCIAMIENTO

El 20 de junio de 2001, se suscribió el Convenio Subsidiario entre la República de Bolivia representada por
el Ministerio de Hacienda y el Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico (actualmente, Ministerio de Minería e
Hidrocarburos), mediante el cual, la República de Bolivia transfirió al Viceministerio de Energía e
Hidrocarburos, actual Ministerio de Minería e Hidrocarburos la totalidad de los recursos provenientes del
Contrato de Crédito de Fomento AIF N° 3378-BO. Las condiciones financieras establecen, que el crédito
debe ser pagado por la República de Bolivia en cuotas semestrales pagaderas el 15 de junio y 15 de
diciembre, empezando el 15 de junio 2010 con vencimiento final el 15 de diciembre de 2039. Cada cuota,
incluyendo la cuota pagadera el 15 de diciembre de 2019 será del uno por ciento (1%) del monto principal
y cada pago posterior será del dos por ciento (2%) de dicho monto principal.

Mediante la firma del Contrato Subsidiario, se transfirieron los recursos por DEG´s 3.700.000
(equivalentes a US$.4.800.000), destinados a financiar parcialmente el Proyecto en las siguientes
categorías de inversión:

                                                    Equivalente
    Categorías de inversión            DEG´s            a US$            % de financiamiento


Bienes                                  180.000          230.000     100%    de   gastos   en   el
                                                                     extranjero y 85% de gastos
                                                                     locales.

Servicios de consultoría             1.880.000         2.480.000     100%
Capacitación y Coordinación             880.000        1.160.000     100%
Reembolso del anticipo para la          350.000          450.000      -
preparación del Proyecto
No asignado                             410.000          480.000      -

Totales                              3.700.000         4.800.000




El LIL es un proyecto piloto y la recuperación plena del costo no es un objetivo del proyecto. Sin embargo,
la Sostenibilidad fiscal fue una consideración importante en el diseño de este proyecto. A pesar de que el
VHE se comprometió a mejorar el marco institucional para la gestión ambiental y social del sector
hidrocarburos, en la actualidad, en general el nivel actual de gastos públicos para el medio ambiente es
bajo.

La Unidad de Coordinación y Seguimiento del Proyecto LIL realizó la ejecución presupuestaria tanto de
los recursos con fuente AIF como de los recursos de contraparte que recibía como transferencia de la
Entidad Ejecutoria para cubrir los gastos recurrentes durante la vigencia del Proyecto.

Los pagos se hicieron efectivos a través de firmas autorizadas y cruzadas entre el Director y el Gerente




                                                   - 38 -

Administrativo de la UCSP y alternativamente la firma de un funcionario del VMEH en caso de ausencia
de una de las anteriores firmas. Dichos pagos se realizan previa verificación de que los mismos
correspondían a un concepto enmarcado dentro el Proyecto.

La ejecución de fondos por categorías durante la vigencia del proyecto hasta Diciembre del 2004, tiene la
siguiente composición en dólares americanos que alcanza a un 64% del monto asignado.



                   CATEGORIAS                    ASIGNADO            EJECUTADO
        Bienes                                           230.000              230.000
        Servicios de Consultoría                       2.480.000            2.167.479
        Capacitación y Coordinación                    1.160.000              311.680
         PPF                                            450.000               364.805
         No Asignado                                    480.000
              T O T A L                                4.800.000            3.073.964

La ejecución precedida, contempla en la categoría 2 actividades de consultoría requeridas de último
momento como ser la contratación de expertos para la revisión de la nueva Ley de Hidrocarburos.

Los recursos de contraparte comprometidos por la Entidad Ejecutora, se hicieron efectivos parcialmente
por las dificultades señaladas en párrafos anteriores donde se alcanza a un 28% del comprometido.

6.               SOSTENIBILIDAD
6.1     RACIONALIDAD PARA LA CALIFICACIÓN

En cuento al componente de fortalecimiento institucional, las coyunturas política y ambiental del país están
siendo enfocadas hacia la descentralización, lo que limita significativamente los recursos para fortalecer
instancias centralizadas del gobierno tal como es la OSCA. En este sentido es muy difícil lograr dar
continuidad al enfoque con que se planteó dicha oficina, sin embargo, se están haciendo esfuerzos
significativos para poder mantener la presencia en campo lograda, para lo cual se contará con dos
inspectores durante la gestión 2005.

En cuanto al componente de flexibilidad, se han logrado establecer ciertos canales de comunicación con
otros representantes del gobierno central, de gobiernos locales y regionales, así como de la sociedad civil,
canales que se está tratando de mantener y fortalecer.

Los Estudios Estratégicos que se han llevado a cabo están siendo revisados para que en base a los mismos,
se logren fortalecer las normas ambientales sectoriales vigentes, se considera factible que durante la gestión
2005, tanto las Guías de Buenas Prácticas como las Metodologías e Instrumentos, podrán ser validadas
mediante Decretos Supremos.

En cuanto al componente de Capacitación, si bien no pudo ejecutarse a través del proyecto, las lecciones
aprendidas por cada institución, pueden constituirse en una buena base para ejecutar componentes de
Capacitación individualmente. Es el caso del VRNMA, que en su Plan Plurianual está contemplando
ejecutar una capacitación a diferentes niveles estatales y de la sociedad civil.
EVALUACIÓN GENERAL DE LA PERFORMANCE
PRESTATARIO




                                                    - 39 -

6.2     PREPARACIÓN

La reforma de 1997 y la capitalización del sector de hidrocarburos en Bolivia, junto con la demanda
enorme del gas natural de mercado Brasileño intensificaron          las inversiones del sector privado en
exploración/producción y la construcción de gasoductos. En promedio, las empresas petroleras privadas
estaban invirtiendo en esa época mas de US$ 800 millones por año. Eso representaba mas de diez veces
de lo que YPFB invirtió antes de ser capitalizada. En ese momento, había diecisiete empresas petroleras
activas en el ámbito de exploración y producción con un programa de perforaciones que alcanza
aproximadamente a diecinueve pozos de exploración por año. La sección boliviana de 600 Km del
gasoducto para gas natural entre Bolivia ­Brasil        fue inaugurada el 19 de febrero de 1999 y las
exploraciones de gas a Brasil empezaron el 1 de julio de 1999 . Las empresas privadas Shell y Enron están
construyendo un ramal del gasoducto Bolivia ­ Brasil hasta Cuiaba en Brasil. En la actualidad, hay
actividades del sector de hidrocarburos en cinco prefecturas, nueve áreas comunales de pueblos indígenas y
nueve áreas protegidas. El impacto ambiental y social resultante era considerable.

Las experiencias recientes en el sector demostraron que existe una fuerte necesidad de un manejo socio
ambiental mejorado de las actividades referentes a la exploración, producto y transporte de hidrocarburos.
Con recursos humanos, técnicos y financieros limitados, las entidades del gobierno han respondido lenta o
inadecuadamente en muchos casos. La calidad de las inversiones en el sector privado, que son de vital
importancia para el crecimiento económico sostenible de Bolivia, solo se podían mantener a lo largo si se
tomaban medidas para encarar los siguientes temas:
·       Falta de cumplimiento con los requerimientos reguladores sociales y ambientales y responsabilidad
ambientales no mitigadas.
·       Falta de coordinación y acuerdos entre las agencias gubernamentales nacionales, regionales y
locales sobre sus roles respectivos.
·       Falta de Sostenibilidad financiera del manejo ambiental y social del sector de hidrocarburos.
·       Falta de experiencia técnica, experiencia y validez de los consultores locales para apoyar
actividades de regulación y mitigación.
·       Falta de un proceso confiable de consulta por las empresas petroleras y mecanismos claros para la
compensación social.
·       Falta de procesos sistemáticos de participación e intercambio de información entre los actores.
·       Falta de una estrategia de gestión socio ­ ambiental para resolver problemas.

Además de los mencionados, un tema central a ser considerado es el relacionado a las lecciones aprendidas
dentro el proyecto sobre las competencias institucionales de acuerdo con lo interpretado en base a las leyes
existentes; es decir, disposiciones como la Ley Orgánica de Municipalidades que otorga competencia a los
gobierno municipales para la preservación del medio ambiente, el control de contaminación, y el
mantenimiento de un equilibrio ecológico, por otro lado, la Ley de Medio Ambiente Establece que el
Ministerio de Energía e Hidrocarburos, en coordinación con el Viceministerio de Recursos Naturales y
Medio Ambiente, elabore las normas especificas y pertinentes y conforme a Art 28 ambos siguen a cargo
del control, el monitoreo y la regulación de impactos ambientales, planes de mitigación y protección. Como
resultado, no hubo un mecanismo concreto sobre las competencias de diferentes niveles gubernamentales
que permita una relación de trabajo entre todos los actores.

El proyecto aplicó un proceso de aprendizaje e innovación mediante estudios y análisis, el intercambio de
información, coordinación Interinstitucional, y capacitación para facilitar la consulta y el desarrollo de
mecanismos para la institucionalización de la capacidad de actores para prevenir, regular y mitigar
impactos ambientales y sociales del sector hidrocarburos. Además, el Proyecto probó una estructura



                                                   - 40 -

Interinstitucional que permitió la participación de los actores mas relevantes del gobierno y la sociedad civil
a nivel nacional y local para garantizar la participación de actores representativos en actividades de
implementación del proyecto. En vista de que fue la primera vez que este proceso se aplica en Bolivia, se
necesitó mayor flexibilidad y ajustes en el transcurso del Proyecto.

6.3      DESEMPEÑO DE LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN POR PARTE DEL GOBIERNO

·        A la fecha, el énfasis del proyecto se ha concentrado en desarrollar capacidades dentro de la
Dirección de Medio Ambiente y del Consejo de Coordinación Técnico Interinstitucional en La Paz y de la
OSCA en Santa Cruz. Así también, se ha desarrollado según el cronograma de implementación los
estudios estratégicos y la participación de la sociedad civil en el proyecto por medio de los CRPC,
entidades regionales que han quedado en la incertidumbre sobre el desarrollo del proyecto luego de haber
conformado grupos representativos de sus lugares de origen.

·        El concepto de participación y consulta publica fue el primero en Bolivia dentro de este proyecto,
uno de los objetivos de la consulta y participación publica del proyecto fue promover la creación de
relaciones y desarrollar confianza entre los participantes del proyecto. Pero si bien se ha tenido éxito a
nivel del CCTI, no se ha logrado un éxito absoluto en el nivel de los CRPC. Esta confianza creada entre los
participantes debería considerarse como beneficiosa para el proyecto y esencial para la comunicación y
participación en el proceso.

6.4      LA AGENDA DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN

El proyecto incialmente durante la gestión 1999 tenía programado mas de cuarenta actividades divididas en
cuatro componentes, según el siguiente detalle:

·        Fortalecimiento institucional; Logística y Comunicación; Información Básica y Estudios;
Administración, Coordinación y seguimiento

La responsabilidad para el desarrollo de los componentes del Proyecto Piloto de Aprendizaje e Innovación
denominado "Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad de Gestión Socio Ambiental en el Sector Hidrocarburos",
recayó sobre el organismo cabeza de sector, el Viceministerio de Energía e Hidrocarburos (VMEH), que
dependía en ese entonces del Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico (MDE). El VMEH coordinó las
relaciones y los aportes con todas las partes involucradas en la temática socio - ambiental del sector
hidrocarburos. La responsabilidad especifica del VMEH era desarrollar los componentes señalados y sub ­
componentes, como también, otros denominados componentes de flexibilidad a través de la consulta y
participación conjuntamente con otras entidades de gobierno y la sociedad civil.

A la conclusión del mencionado proyecto, se puede decir, que solo se pudo finalizar con un 52% en
términos del número de actividades desarrolladas, pero lo que son términos cualitativos podemos evaluar
que de lo planificado se pudo finalizar con un porcentaje mayor, debido a los distintos factores que se
señalan adelante; básicamente, el componente 1, refiérase a Asistencia técnica para regulación y
mitigación de impactos ambientales y cuyo objetivo principal fue destinado a incrementar las capacidades
e institucionalizar el proceso de consulta con las partes interesadas fue concluida en un 85%, debido a que
se complementó de gran manera cronograma establecido a principios del proyecto.

Se creó el Consejo de Coordinación Técnico Interinstitucional, durante la gestión 2000, con el objetivo de
Establecer un espacio de discusión, análisis e intercambio técnico sobre la capacitación, información, los



                                                     - 41 -

procedimientos de consulta y participación, el alcance de los TOR y resultados de los estudios, para poder
desarrollarlos en forma concertada en el marco del proyecto, para contribuir mediante la participación de la
sociedad civil en propuestas de políticas y estrategias para el desarrollo de metodologías y procedimientos
en el sector hidrocarburos relativos a la gestión socio - ambiental.

Una de la funciones del CCTI era viabilizar la participación efectiva de los sectores involucrados en el
monitoreo en el marco de la normativa vigente, que permita acortar las distancias entre las políticas, leyes,
normas y puesta en práctica de los estudios previstos en el proyecto con aportes técnicos en el diseño y
aplicación de sistemas de monitoreo y evaluación de los impactos socio - ambientales generados por las
actividades del sector hidrocarburos, estableciendo directrices y estrategias para el proceso de consulta y
participación de los sectores involucrados en el marco del proyecto.

A principios de la gestión 2001, se conformó los Consejos de Consulta Técnico Regionales con el objetivo
de:
·        Permitir la consulta y participación de los diferentes actores regionales en el marco del proyecto.
·        Aportar con insumos al CCTI.
·        Desarrollar mecanismos de retroalimentación de información.
·        Participar aportando técnicamente a los componentes de flexibilidad del proyecto: estudios,
información, comunicación y capacitación.
·        Facilitar la comunicación y coordinación con organismos de base en el marco de los componentes
flexibles del proyecto.

De la misma forma y sobre la base del componente 1, se hizo efectiva las contrataciones de consultores
para la red de monitoreo según lo programado, desarrollandoa a su vez capacitación y talleres respectivos
con los consultores del Proyecto y la participación de las entidades involucradas, como el CIDOB
(Confederación de Pueblos Indígenas de Bolivia) y la Cámara Boliviana de Hidrocarburos y el resto de las
entidades participantes del CCTI, complementado esta etapa según lo planificado en el cronograma de
implementación (PIP).

Respecto al Componente 2, Logística y Comunicación, el Proyecto alcanzó todos sus objetivos, vale decir
en un 100%, en la adquisición de bienes tanto de equipos de computación, vehículos, materiales de
laboratorio y en las actividades de comunicación y difusión como fueron el dote de cartillas de información
distribuidas por el CCTI.

El componente 3 producto del análisis y observaciones por parte de los miembros del CCTI, se vió en la
necesidad de fusionar los estudios inicialmente planificados en cinco grandes estudios estratégicos y dos
complementarios cuyas denominaciones se señalan a continuación :

·        Diseño y elaboración de Metodologias e instrumentos para la evaluación y control del impacto
socio ambiental generado
·        Compatibilización y Complementación de la Normativa Ambiental y Normas conexas relacionadas
con la gestión Ambiental del SH
·        Elaboración de guías de buenas practicas ambientales y de un plan de Acción para contingencias
para el SH.
·        Estrategias de Comunicación
·        Sostenibilidad institucional y financiera
·        Diseño e implementación del Programa de Capacitación
·        Análisis de la Normativa Ambiental



                                                     - 42 -

De los estudios señalados, no se pudieron concluir en su totalidad debido a factores diversos, sin embargo,
las consultorías finalizadas a satisfacción del prestatario fueron:

·        Diseño y elaboración de Metodologias e instrumentos para la evaluación y control del impacto
socio ambiental generado realizado por la Firma ABT Associates y concluido en a finales de la gestión
2004 a satisfacción del prestatario.
·        Análisis de la Normativa ambiental realizado por la firma IFC/PCA, concluido a finales de la
gestión 2004 a satisfacción del prestatario.
·        Elaboración de guías de buenas practicas ambientales y de un plan de Acción para contingencias
para el SH, estudio realizado por la firma ABT Associates, concluido a finales de la gestión 2004 a
satisfacción del prestatario

Respecto al Componente 4, Administración, Coordinación y seguimiento del proyecto, podemos decir que
se concluyó acorde a las contingencias de los planificado, para lo cuál podemos señalar el cumplimiento de
las actividades internas como también la contrataciones de las Auditorias Financieras, Adquisiciones y
Contrataciones y Evaluaciones Externas, sin salvedades, siendo el seguimiento del proyecto por parte de la
UCSP favorable.

Por lo antecedido, se destaca que el desarrollo del proyecto en términos cualitativos fue favorable en la
medida de las posibilidades en las que se desarrolló, siendo que este atravesó durante su ultima etapa
mucho percances debido a las dificultades socio políticas y económicas del país.

6.4.1    EVALUACIÓN GENERAL DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

De acuerdo a lo descrito anteriormente, podemos concluir que el prestatario intentó colaborar mucho al
desarrollo del proyecto, pero lamentablemente, debido a la inexperiencia del gobierno central para
coordinar con diferentes estamentos de la sociedad donde adicionalmente sobrevinieron muchos problemas
de índole social que ocasionaron posteriormente constantes cambios de Ministros del sector y otros factores
señalados anteriormente, que repercutieron en el desarrollo del proyecto no pudiendo concluir con los
objetivos trazados.

7.       LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

Durante la ultima reunión sostenida con los miembros del Consejo de Coordinación Técnico
Interinstitucional CCTI, creado en el marco del Proyecto LIL a objeto de contribuir mediante la
participación de la sociedad civil en propuestas de políticas y estrategias para el desarrollo de
Metodologias y procedimientos en el sector hidrocarburos relativos a las gestiones socio - ambiental y
coadyuvar con aportes técnicos en el diseño y aplicación de sistemas de monitoreo y evaluación de los
impactos socio-ambientales generados por las actividades del sector hidrocarburos para viavilizar la
participación efectiva de los sectores involucrados en el monitoreo en el marco de la normativa vigente se
recopiló la siguiente opinión en el marco de las lecciones aprendidas del Proyecto :

Del Diseño del Proyecto: Entidades del gobierno central, realzaron que el proyecto lil no funciona con
instituciones públicas sino mas bien con redes sociales inclusive con la participación del sector privado,
debido a los constantes cambios de autoridades político-sociales cambian constantemente criterios al
interior de cada institución.




                                                     - 43 -

Una de las fallas para el incumplimiento total de los objetivos del proyecto, es tal vez el diseño, ya que los
mecanismos de participación no son suficientes, muchas veces se llegaron a la improvisación, tal vez el tipo
de proyecto era muy complejo para el tratamiento local, habría sido mejor empezar en el programa de
capacitación, y no en la normativa, así obtener una participación mas democrática, no se puede cambiar
esta figura pero para futuros proyectos se puede abrir los programas de capacitación, para lograr una
participación mas efectiva.

De la ejecución del proyecto: Se logró a nivel institucional que se reconozca al proyecto y se dé la
importancia que merece, hoy en día podemos observar resultados de participación y consulta a objeto de
mejorar el seguimiento y control ambiental del sector hidrocarburífero. Sin embargo existen deficiencias
que el sector las advierte porque las necesidades persisten todavía. Hoy en día queda un camino por
recorrer y el MMH tiene un reto al margen de cualquier crédito, consolidar al CCTI para así conformar el
marco del el fortalecimiento del sector.

De la participación del ente     ejecutor: Este Proyecto nace como una gestión socio ambiental, en la
construcción del gasoducto al Brazil. Queda mucho por hacer a los problemas que surgen de aquí en
adelante, cada uno de estos deben ser tratados por las entidades del CCTI tratando de llegar a ciertos
acercamientos, la posibilidad de establecer procesos ordenados. El sector petrolero es considerado no solo
como negocio si no como tema social. El potencial que tenemos en base a los avances logrados con este
proyecto y otras experiencias es altamente relevante.

Ha sido interesante el desafío que se podía hacer como país, en aprendizaje de tolerancia entre
instituciones, este desafío debe continuar con el propósito de crear un nuevo CCTI para el fortalecimiento
del sector.

Después de la implementación del proyecto se ha cumplido de manera positiva en realzar aportes políticos
y técnicos en el desarrollo del componente de los Estudios Estratégicos y los estudios de Caso, hasta el
avance registrado.

El proyecto LIL no ha podido cumplir, al no generar capacidades de entrenamiento y capacitación en la
gestión socio ambiental sectorial, colocando a la CIDOB en una situación de seria desventaja respecto a las
actividades que se desarrollan las empresas petroleras al interior de las Tierras Comunitarias de Origen.

El Proyecto LIL no se ha consolidado, al no generar directrices y recursos de Sostenibilidad que asegure la
participación directa de las entidades en la gestión socio ambiental del sector hidrocarburos, coartando en
los hechos, su derecho de participar en mejores condiciones institucionales para hacer frente a los
atropellos que generan las actividades petroleras en sus territorios.

El Ministerio de Hidrocarburos debe encontrar mecanismos alternativos para garantizar a los pueblos
indígenas su participación directa en la gestión socio ambiental del sector hidrocarburos a fin de evitar una
radicalización de las medidas de presión de las organizaciones indígenas, en el control de ingreso de las
empresas petroleras en los territorios autónomos de los pueblos indígenas.




                                                     - 44 -

- 45 -

