Report No. PID8122
Project Name                     Bolivia-Hydrocarbon Sector Social and (@) ...
Environmental Management Capacity Building
Project (LIL)
Project ID                       BOPE65902
Implementing Agency              Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
Lic. Mario Candia, Director General de Energia
Piso 12, Palacio de Comunicaciones
La Paz, Bolivia
Phone: (591-2) 36-53-00
Fax : (591-8) 11 38 59
Email : mcandia@ceibo.entelnet.bo
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           June 15, 2000
Projected appraisal date         September 26, 1999
Projected Board Date             RVP Approval-May 2000
Country Sector Background
Main Sector Issues
1.      The 1997 reform and capitalization of the hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia,
coupled with the huge Brazilian natural gas market demand has intensified
private sector investments in exploration/production and construction of
pipelines. Private oil companies are investing more than US$800 million per
year, on average. This represents more than ten times what YPFB, the
National Oil Company, invested prior to its capitalization. There are now
seventeen oil companies active in exploration and production activities with
a drilling program of about nineteen exploration wells a year. The 600 Km
Bolivian section of the Bolivia-Brazil natural gas pipeline was inaugurated
on February 19, 1999 and gas export to Brazil began on July 1, 1999. Private
companies Shell and Enron are constructing a branch of the Bolivia-Brazil
pipeline to Cuiaba in Brazil. Hydrocarbon sector activities presently occur
in five prefectures, nine indigenous people community areas and nine
protected areas and result in significant social and environmental impacts
(See maps 3 and 4).
2.      Recent experiences in the sector demonstrate that there is a strong need
for improved socio-environmental management of hydrocarbon exploration,
production and transportation activities. With limited human, technical and
financial resources, the government entities have provided slow or inadequate
response in many of the ongoing cases. The quality of private investments in
the hydrocarbon sector, which are vital to the sustainable economic growth of
Bolivia, can only be maintained over the long term if actions are taken now
to address the following issues:
3.      Lack of compliance with the social and environmental regulation
requirements and unmitigated environmental liabilities - Approximately
seventeen oil companies are undertaking hydrocarbon exploration and/or
production activities. Certain companies have complied with social and
environmental regulations and have developed a good reputation in complying



with the social and environmental requirements. However, for others it is
difficult to verify whether they may have taken shortcuts in compliance with
these regulations for economic reasons. In addition, some companies are
hesitant to consider local communities and, particularly, indigenous peoples'
communities as partners in any phase of their activities. Meanwhile, local
communities and indigenous peoples' organizations are requesting increased
participation in the regulation of hydrocarbon activities. Consequently, oil
companies are drawing criticisms from local civil society organizations and
international NGOs.
4.      While there are specific and obvious cases of environmental and social
impacts as a result of non-compliance, it is difficult to assess the
practices of oil companies because: (i) the government agencies are
centralized and lack adequate capacity and resources for field monitoring;
(ii) there is inadequate monitoring in the field by independent consultants;
(iii) local government and civil society organizations do not have the
capacity or resources to carry out substantial independent monitoring and do
not have access to sources of information or channels for logging complaints;
and, (iv) the lack of definition and agreement of what makes good practices
by oil companies in Bolivia.
5.      Lack of coordination and agreement between national, regional and local
government agencies on respective roles - The stakeholders involved in
hydrocarbon activities have distinct interpretations of recently issued laws
and the institutional framework for the implementation of regulations. As a
result, a vacuum exists between certain regulations and the lack of
operational procedures and practices. For instance, several national,
regional and local government agencies are involved in matters dealing with
regulation and mitigation of social and environmental issues in the
hydrocarbon sector but with unclear mandates and often times overlapping
responsibilities. In addition to the VMEH, this includes the Vice Ministry
of Environment, Natural Resources, and Forestry Development (VMMARNDF), the
Vice Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Autochthonous Peoples (VAIPO), the
Vice Ministry of Strategic Planning and Popular Participation (VMPEPP), the
National Service of Protected Areas (SERNAP), regional prefectures, local
municipalities, and a residual environmental entity remaining in the Bolivian
National Oil Company (YPFB). Other stakeholders with vested interests
include oil companies, indigenous peoples, local affected communities, and
non governmental organizations have taken on a proactive role in regulation
of hydrocarbon operations. While existing laws, such as the Law of Popular
Participation and the Law of Decentralization, provide frameworks for
processes of participation and decentralization, no mechanisms for
implementing them have been put into practice.
6.      Lack of financial sustainability of the social and environmental
management of the hydrocarbon sector - While multilateral and regional
financial agencies and the donor community are providing some assistance to
GoB (Under IDB Credit 929 important resources are directed mainly to regional
and local government agencies and focused on the forestry sector) to address
social and environmental impacts and increase local capacity, this assistance
has underestimated the social and environmental consequences of the
unexpected success of the reform and capitalization of the hydrocarbon sector
and the opening up of the large Brazilian gas market to exports from Bolivia.
As a result, the UMA, within the VMEH, has a small staff, but lacks adequate
technical and human resources as well as an information base to fulfill the
- 2 -



demand for enforcing compliance with regulations, particularly in oil and gas
activities in the field.
7.      Lack of expertise, experience and validity of local consultants to
support regulation and mitigation activities - While there is a small pool of
competent local consultants managed by the VMMARNDF, they are not properly
trained and certified in the independent regulation and mitigation of social
and environmental impacts of the hydrocarbon sector. Often times, local
consultants who have not been certified in their expertise are selected, or
they are not selected in an open and transparent process. In addition, some
consultants are called upon to provide expertise in areas for which they have
not been trained.
8.      Lack of credible consultation process by oil companies and clear
mechanisms for social compensation - Since the passage of the Law of National
Service of Agrarian Reform (INRA) and the Popular Participation Law in 1996,
indigenous groups have become better organized at both the national and
regional levels. Indigenous groups have taken independent initiatives in
protecting themselves from impacts of oil company operations. Nonetheless,
they have a tendency to negotiate with oil companies on a case by case basis
lacking national regulations to guide their effort and ensure consistent
rules with which companies should comply. At present, neither the oil
companies nor the indigenous groups have a clear idea of what is being
negotiated (access, right of way, entrance, potential damages, and
compensation). Without a system of checks and balances in this process,
dispersed and uncoordinated compensation activities from oil companies will
have little impact on long-term social and economic development of these
communities.   The recently drafted Law of Petroleum Operations in Community
Lands of Origin, which was developed by jointly by the VMEH and VAIPO and is
currently under review, sets forth a general framework for the assessment of
social and environmental impacts and compensation measures.
9.      Lack of systematic processes of participation and information sharing
among stakeholders - The lack of agreement on coordination and cooperation
between national, regional and local government agencies and other
stakeholders complicates the development of processes of participation and
coordination. No communication or consultation programs have been developed
for the different stakeholders in order to systematically inform them and
receive feedback on issues related to the regulation and mitigation of social
and environmental impacts resulting from hydrocarbon sector activities such
as exploration, production or transport.
10.     Lack of socio-environmental management strategy to resolve problems -
The actual process of regulation and mitigation and of awarding licenses is
done without necessarily focusing on key issues such as ensuring enough
resources to address critical social and environmental issues adequately,
verifying EIAs information and implementation, and assessing compliance of
oil companies with best social and environmental practices. IDB credit 598
is funding a social and environmental study (Plan de Accion Ambiental del
Sector de Hidrocarburos) which will provide an information base, a common map
and a prioritization of social and environmental actions. However, the IDB
credit provides for very little capacity building of the UMA and does not
address the resolution of the above-mentioned issues. The environmental
licensing and reporting process is an increasing source of friction between
oil companies, government agencies and green NGOs. Furthermore, no
- 3 -



mechanisms exist to encourage improved environmental actions on behalf of the
oil companies.
Government Strategy
11.     The successive governments in Bolivia have passed abundant new
legislation. However, they have been much less successful at building the
institutions and mechanisms necessary to implement the reforms. The GoB has
created more than 300 municipalities through the Ley de Participacion Popular
(Popular Participation Law) and registered more than 13,000 self-defined
peasant community organizations, indigenous peoples' community organizations,
and neighborhood organizations (juntas vecinales) with rights to oversee
government operations and fight corruption. While many communities are
exercising this power, the process will take many years to become
institutionalized and effective. With the help of IDA's Rural Communities
Development Project (RCDP- Credit No.2772, closed 8/99) and the Participatory
Rural Investment Project (PRIP - Credit No. 3065), 123 municipalities all
over Bolivia (and several in the areas under oil and gas exploration) are
carrying out processes of participatory municipal development. More than 100
municipalities have replicated these on their own or through the help of
diverse entities.
12.     Meanwhile, the lack of institutional development at the national,
regional and local levels and continuing corruption constrain private sector
development and the full implementation of a poverty reduction strategy. The
government has recognized these problems and is placing particular attention
to building institutional capacity for service delivery at all levels of
government within the appropriate participatory framework.
13.     The 1992 Environmental Law called for the creation of a competent
sectoral entity for the regulation of environmental impacts in the sector.
The recently completed Hydrocarbon Sector Reform and Capitalization Credit
(Credit No. 2762 BO), financed by IDA, supported the consolidation of the
Environmental Management Unit (UMA) within the VMEH to prevent, regulate and
mitigate environmental impacts resulting from hydrocarbon sector activities
and supported the initial consultants to the UMA. A strategic environmental
assessment carried out on the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline identified upstream
activities as the most sensitive social and environmental issue for the
hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia. The GoB has acknowledged that improved
development through cleaner operations which comply with regulations and best
practices is in their best interest.
14.     The recently restructured IDB credit (Credit No. 598) is financing a
strategic regional environmental impact assessment of oil and gas operations
in Bolivia, and another restructured IDB credit (Credit No. 929) is
strengthening the capacity of the local prefectures and municipalities to
enforce environmental regulations dealing with all sectors but focusing
primarily on the forestry sector. With the increase in hydrocarbon
investment following the capitalization, and subsequently in social and
environmental impacts, the VMEH identified the need to strengthen its
response by proposing to strengthen the sector's capacity for monitoring of
social and environmental impacts. In the context of the Project, the central
government is taking the initiative to develop and institutionalize a
sustainable and improved social and environmental management framework for
the regulation of hydrocarbon operations.
- 4-



15.     Multilateral and bilateral aid to Bolivia for biodiversity conservation
related to impacts from upstream gas operations is significant, including
Global Environmental Facility (GEF) projects, such as the Sustainability of
Bolivian Protected Areas Project currently under preparation, the German Aid
Program (GTZ and KFW), and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). In addition, under a Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA)/Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) program,
IDA has supported a consensus-building process between national government
agencies, oil companies, indigenous peoples' community organization
representatives and non-governmental organizations which has led to an
agreement on specific regulations of companies oil operations in indigenous
people community areas. This regulation, which provides for a process of
consultation and participation with the indigenous people communities in
hydrocarbon sector project development and implementation, is presently under
review.
Objectives
16.     The development objective of the Hydrocarbon Sector Social and
Environmental Management Capacity Building Project is to improve the social
and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector exploration,
production and transport activities. To achieve that objective, the Project
will strive to institutionalize systematic procedures for consultation and
participation, as well as mechanisms and dispositions for increased
compliance by oil companies, an evaluation and monitoring system that is both
financially and institutionally sustainable, and a system which allows for
the flow of accessible, transparent and timely information between all
stakeholders ( Stakeholders, broadly defined, are representatives from the
national, regional and local government agencies, indigenous and non-
indigenous people's community organizations, oil companies, non-governmental
organizations, prefectures and municipalities)..
17.     Specifically, the project will: (a) strengthen the capacity of
institutions and communities involved in or affected by hydrocarbon sector
activities to participate in the regulation and mitigation of social and
environmental impacts; (b) improve stakeholder access to relevant information
in a timely manner; (c) improve the capacity of the VMEH for on-site
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting; (d) through field studies in problem
areas, increase knowledge of the extent of problems in the development and
implementation of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and increase
compliance with EIAs and application of best practices by oil companies; (e)
analyze and develop mechanisms for financial sustainability of social and
environment management; (f) review and make compatible existing regulations
and develop new regulations when necessary; and (g) develop and pilot a
participatory, institutional framework that would facilitate the processes
described above.
Description of Project Components:
18.     The Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity
Building Project, with a total estimated cost of SDR 4.37 (US$ 5.8) million
over a three year period, seeks to improve the social and environmental
management of the hydrocarbon sector and consists of the following components
:(i) Institutional Strengthening, (ii) Logistics, (iii) Information Base and
Studies, and (iv) Administration, Coordination and Monitoring. IDA financing
- 5 -



amounts to SDR 3.7 (US$ 4.8) million or 83t of total costs. In addition to
the agreements reached during ongoing dialogue with government agencies and
civil society representatives, several consultant studies (Establishment of a
Field Operations Group -Bolivia National Secretariat of Energy Environmental
Unit. Alconsult. December 1997; Bolivian Environmental Approval process for
New Hydrocarbon Projects-Review and Recommendations -E2 Environmental
Alliance Inc-Dec The Disposal of Drilling Fluid Wastes- Alconsult- July 30,
1998 funded under the CIDA/ESMAP program and another (Plan Accion Ambiental
Sector Hidrocarburos -Terminos de Referencia- Study funded by IDB Credit 598)
being funded by IDB credit 598 have provided important input in the
definition of the following components .
Project Component 1 - SDR 1.96 (US$2.6) million - Institutional Strengthening
1.1     Technical assistance for the regulation and mitigation of social and
environmental impacts of hydrocarbon activities (SDR .98 - US$ 1.3 million)
entails contracting specialized consultants (Environmentalist, Social
Scientist, Anthropologist, Ecologist, Petroleum Engineer, Agronomist, etc.)
in the UMA in La Paz and Santa Cruz de la Sierra (Red de Monitoreo) to ensure
adequate prevention, regulation and mitigation and in accordance with current
regulations with Terms of Reference (TORs) agreed upon with IDA.
1.2     Training of government agencies staff, civil society organizations,
locally affected communities and local consultants (SDR .60 - US$ 0.8
million) consists of tailoring and testing training programs for participants
of different levels of knowledge and experience in social and environmental
areas, focusing primarily on the aspects of regulation and mitigation. While
a tentative training plan and budget have been developed, specific training
programs will be designed and planned with the inputs from the Consejo de
Coordinacion Tecnico Interinstitutional (Inter-institutional Technical
Coordinating Council - CCTI) in consultation with the Consejos Tecnicos
Regionales (Regional Technical Councils - CTR) and local participants.
Programs will be tailored to specific audiences (experts from the industry
and government agencies, civil society institutions (green NGOs), indigenous
and non-indigenous communities and local consultants). All relevant
stakeholders will provide their input into these programs (training scope,
content, and methodology) and assess the success of these programs. As
required, the training programs could be modified to better address concerns
of stakeholders as they arise. The system of councils and workshops as
mentioned below would be used to obtain input from stakeholders to better
tailor the training programs.
1.3     Inter-institutional Coordination (SDR .23 - US$ 0.3 million) consists of
establishing the CCTI and CTRs (See Para. 3 on main text) and implementing a
series of workshops and seminars to facilitate the consultation and
participation process in several areas: (i) the compatibilization of
regulations and operational procedures; (ii) the definition of mechanisms for
consultation and collaboration on specific social and environmental impact
mitigation plans; (iii) the definition of an accessible, transparent and
timely information system; (iv) the definition of the content and
requirements for the training process; and (v) the development of sustainable
financing mechanisms for carrying out regulation and mitigation.
1.4     Consultation Workshops with Stakeholders (SDR .15 - US$ 0.2 million)
consists of workshops that will be carried out, under terms agreed upon by
- 6 -



CCTI and CTRs in consultation with other stakeholders for: (i) consultation,
feedback and collaboration on the specific studies, on their objectives,
findings and recommendations; (ii) planning, review and testing of processes
to integrate stakeholders in decision-making and regulation and mitigation
activities; and (iii) on other matters as determined necessary by consensus
of CCTI and CTRs.
Project Component 2 - SDR .24 (US$0.3) million - Logistics and Communication
This component consists of the acquisition of essential equipment (vehicles,
portable laboratories, computers, etc.) to facilitate the on-site regulation
and mitigation work of government agencies, contributing to information
sharing among all stakeholders. In addition, an information system/web-site
will be implemented. This system will make use of the information base being
developed under IDB credit 598 within the framework of the study Plan de
Accion Ambiental Sector Hidrocarburos being carried under the supervision of
the UMA of VMEH and complement the management information system being
completed by consultants for the VMEH under a Japanese Grant Fund.
Project Component 3 - SDR 1.27 (US$1.7) million - Information Baseline and
Studies
This component forms a critical input to the institutional strengthening
component and consists of various studies. The project studies include: (i)
analysis and development of a mechanism for the sustainable financing of an
improved social and environmental regulatory framework; (ii) analysis and
development of a strategy for the dissemination of public information and
systematic mechanisms for consultation and participation; (iii) analysis and
development of proposal for compatibilized regulations, procedures, roles and
functions; (iv) analysis and design of strategies, mechanisms, manuals and
procedures for social and environmental regulation and mitigation; (v)
analysis of social and environmental practices of oil companies and
development of best practice guidelines; (vi) carrying out of 7 specific case
studies, to be carried out by independent reviewers with participation from
diverse actors involved in the sector that are based on present and past
experiences in the hydrocarbon sector to identify social and environmental
impacts and assess regulatory response; and (vii) assessment of hydrocarbon
sector contingency plans.
Project Component 4 - SDR .90 (US$1.2) million - Administration, Coordination
and Monitoring
This component provides for: (i) the creation of an Unidad de Coordinacion y
Seguimiento del Proyecto (Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit - UCSP)
responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the administrative
progress of the project, (ii) external consultants which, in addition to
stakeholders, will provide an independent annual evaluation of progress
achieved in relation to verifiable performance indicators; and, (iii)
external audits.
Implementation and supervision:
19.     Implementation Arrangements: The Unidad de MedioAmbiente (Environmental
Management Unit - UMA) of the Vice Ministerio de Energia e Hidrocarburos
(Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons -VMEH) as the responsible entity
-7 -



for monitoring and evaluation of social and environmental impacts in the
hydrocarbon sector will implement the corresponding project sub-component
within Institutional Strengthening and will provide technical guidance for
the implementation of remaining components. A satellite office of the UMA -
Red de Monitoreo - will be established in Santa Cruz de la Sierra with
environmental specialists to ensure improved regulation and mitigation on the
ground.
20.     A small Unidad de Coordinacion y Seguimiento del Proyecto (Project
Coordination and Monitoring Unit - UCSP) will be established within the VMEH
to provide administrative support for the project and conduct procurement and
disbursement operations. The UCSP will operate with independent and
transparent management and financial systems and procurement and disbursement
procedures. The UCSP will be responsible for organizing consultation and
training events, in coordination with the CCTI and CTRs, and it will support
the work of the CCTI and act as a Secretariat to the CCTI. It will be headed
by a Director and staffed with an accountant and procurement and
administrative staff, to IDA's satisfaction. Prior to negotiations, the
contents of the final Operations Manual, the Project Implementation Plan,
including the detailed budget and draft Terms of Reference for project
activities were discussed and agreed upon with IDA.
21.     The project will establish a Consejo de Coordinacion Tecnico
Interinstitutional (Inter-Institutional Technical Coordinating Council -
CCTI) at the national level with representatives from the Viceministry of
Environment, Natural Resources, and Forestry Development (VMMARNDF),
Viceministry of Indigenous Affairs and Autochtonous Peoples (VAIPO),
Viceministry of Strategic Planning and Popular Participation (VMPEPP), the
Viceministry of Energy and Hidrocarbons (VMEH), the National Service of
Protected Areas (SERNAP), and representation from the Confederacion Indigena
del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia Boliviana (Indigenous Confederation of the
Bolivian Orient, Chaco and Amazon - CIDOB), two non-governmental
organizations (NGO), an academic institution, and the Camara Boliviana de
Hidrocarburos (Bolivian Chamber of Hydrocarbons - CBH). The objective of the
CCTI is to provide a space for technical analysis and interchange with regard
to proposed training programs, information systems, procedures for
consultation and participation and the scope of proposed studies,
consultations, and workshops. The CCTI will play a key role in analyzing the
findings of the studies to develop and propose modified regulations and an
improved framework for social and environmental management. From time to
time other actors, such as the Superintendencia de Hidrocarburos (Hydrocarbon
Superintendence) (The Hydrocarbon Superintendence has responsibility for
regulation of hydrocarbon activities, but not specifically social and
environmental regulations) or YPFB, municipalities and others will be called
upon by the CCTI to participate in relevant technical discussions.
22.     In addition to the CCTI, Consejos Tecnicos Regionales (Regional
Technical Councils - CTR) will be established in the four regions with
hydrocarbon production - Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, and Tarija - and
will serve as regional entities of participation and consultation during
project implementation. A diagnostic study and consultation will be carried
out in collaboration with the CCTI within the first quarter of the project to
assess whether these regions are adequate and to determine participants in
the CTRs. The CCTI will facilitate and ensure the effective participation of
stakeholders in CTRs as well in training and workshops. Representation on
- 8 -



the CTRs may include prefectures, municipalities, indigenous and non-
indigenous peoples' communities and other civil society institutions as
identified by the CCTI through local consultation based on the above-
mentioned diagnostic. Specifically, the CTRs will help to develop mechanisms
for local stakeholder feedback, participate in the technical review of
proposed studies, information systems, consultation mechanisms and proposed
training programs. CTRs will also be responsible for facilitating systematic
communication and consultation with grassroots organizations on the same.
During negotiations, representatives from the VMEH established the detailed
steps to be taken prior to effectiveness for the establishment of the CCTI
and CTRs.
23.     Financial management. The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia
conducted a review in the UCSP of the accounting , controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of
administrative staff. It was determined that the UCSP has in place
accounting and internal control systems that accord with such accounting
standards or agreed format and that reliably record and report all assets
and liabilities and financial transactions of the project including those
transactions involving the use of IDA funds; and provide sufficient
financial information for managing and monitoring project activities. It was
agreed that by June 30, 2000 the UCSP will complete establishment of its
financial management system in order to enable it to prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Evaluation and monitoring arrangements:
24.     Monitoring: The principal responsibility for monitoring and reporting
progress against quantitative indicators as agreed with IDA in the
implementation plan under the Project will rest with the UCSP in La Paz.
Standardized monitoring forms, which include objectively verifiable
indicators of project performance, are included in the project implementation
plan to facilitate monitoring and situation analysis. In addition, project
implementation reports will include copies of the minutes of CCTI and CTR
meetings and reports on the status of agreed actions from those meetings.
25.     Evaluation: Three external evaluations will be contracted to independent
consultants on an annual basis. The first one will include the evaluation of
the performance indicators as well as project performance for the first year
of implementation. The second one will evaluate the performance benchmarks
for the second year of implementation. The third evaluation will be carried
out prior to project closing and will evaluate performance indicators and
overall project performance as an input to the project completion report.
These consultants will work with the CCTI, CTR and other stakeholders through
participatory methods to carry out their evaluations. The evaluations, with
the exception of the year two evaluation, will focus on: (a) the
effectiveness of the arrangements and mechanisms to foster participatory
development among stakeholders, (b) the achievements of tasks financed by the
Project; (c) the effectiveness of the administrative arrangements and
mechanism, including contracting, procurement, disbursement, accounting, and
auditing, and (d) the efficiency and sustainability of the financial and
institutional arrangements developed for participatory regulation and
mitigation. In addition, the independent reviewer will evaluate the impact
indicators of social and environmental management and compliance, as detailed
in the project operations manual. The results of the evaluation will be
-9-



shared and discussed with the CCTI and the CTRs, and will be used to re-
direct project implementation, if necessary, and guide the preparation of
follow-up interventions.
Cost and Financing:
26.     The total project cost is estimated at US$ 5.8 million, of which US$4.8
million will be financed by IDA.
Environmental Issues:
27.     In Bolivia there exists three groups of social and environmental
liabilities or obligations in upstream hydrocarbon operations, including
within protected areas: (i) those inherited as liabilities by the capitalized
companies from YPFB as a result of the capitalization process and which the
companies are committed to deal with; (ii) those which the capitalized
companies have identified since the initiation of their operations in the
field and for which the State may be liable for; and (iii) those obligations
resulting from the normal new operations of all the oil companies. The second
group of environmental liabilities is still under discussion between the
government and the capitalized companies. Agreement needs to be reached
between the parties on the quality of the environmental audit carried out by
the capitalized companies, priority of mitigation actions on the liabilities
identified in different areas and the sources and financing mechanism to
implement mitigation plans.
28.     Multilateral and bilateral aid to Bolivia for biodiversity conservation
related to impact from upstream gas operations is significant, including
GEF, GTZ, KFW, and USAID projects. However, the need to address the special
environmental and social risks posed by oil and gas operations within
protected areas is as important as for other areas.
29.     A strategic environmental assessment carried out on the gas pipeline
identified upstream activities as the most sensitive social and environmental
issue for the hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia. While numerous environmental
actions are underway in the sector, significant gaps persist. Social and
environmental action plans and an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan along
the Bolivia-Brazil natural gas pipeline route are being implemented as
requirements for a Bank-IDB-CAF financed Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline (Gas
Sector Development Project World Bank Loan in Brazil). In addition, a
recently restructured IDB credit (Credit No. 598) is financing a strategic
regional environmental impact assessment of oil and gas operations in
Bolivia, and another restructured IDB credit (Credit No. 929) is
strengthening the capacity of the local prefectures and municipalities to
enforce environmental regulations dealing with all sectors, but focusing
primarily on the forestry sector.
30.     Using a participatory approach, this project will help to strengthen the
capacity of stakeholders to carry out regulation and mitigation of social and
environmental impacts of hydrocarbon activities, while institutionalizing
systematic processes of consultation and participation. Project-supported
clarification of the "rules of the game" for environmental and social
assessment, mitigation, and compensation requirements seek to provide a
disincentive for companies with poor social and environmental practices to
continue investing. In addition, it is expected that these improved "rules
- 10 -



of the game" will, in the long run, reduce adverse environmental and related
social impacts to a far greater extent by promoting increased compliance by
oil companies with regulations and good practices. As no baseline data on
environmental impacts is available for the sector, the Environmental Analysis
for this project, to be carried out during project implementation, will
examine the extent to which the project is producing improved environmental
and social results on the ground.
31.     Numerous local groups and green NGOs have been consulted as part of
project identification and preparation. The Environmental Dialogues, a
conference between the World Bank and stakeholders (national, regional and
local government agencies, oil companies, indigenous people organizations
representatives and non governmental organizations), was organized in Santa
Cruz on April 21, 1999 to specifically discuss hydrocarbon sector issues.
The identification and preparation missions also met separately with the
National Chamber of Hydrocarbons which represents all oil companies working
in Bolivia, the Confederacion Indigena del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia
Boliviana (Indigenous Confederation of the Bolivian Eastern, Chaco and Amazon
Regions - CIDOB), Capitania Indigena del Alto y Bajo Isozo (Indigenous Group
representing the Upper and Lower Isozo - CABI), the Liga de Defensa del Medio
Ambiente (Environmental Defense League - LIDEMA), the Foro Boliviano de Medio
Ambiente y Desarrollo Economico (Bolivian Forum for the Environment and
Economic Development - FOBOMADE), and Tropico. During the preparation
mission, project team members also met with consultants (Fundacion MEDMIN,
Servicios Ambientales, Paraba Azul S.R.L., Monitoreo S.R.L.), the Servicio
Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National Service for Protected Areas - SERNAP),
and representatives from the municipal, prefecture and national level
governments who have experience in evaluation and monitoring of hydrocarbon
operations. Additionally, three stakeholder workshops were held throughout
project preparation with over 40 different participants, including the above
mentioned groups as well as participants from the Superintendencia Forestal,
GeoPlus, Conservation International - Bolivia, the World Wildlife Fund -
Bolivia, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
Proyecto KAA-IYA, among others. Project issues were also discussed during a
meeting between local and international environmental NGOs and the World
Bank's Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean.
Contact Points:
32.                              Philippe Durand, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone (202) 473-3244
Email: Pdurand@worldbank.org
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 11 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 23, 2000.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to
- 12 -



