Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 203 89-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
(US$4.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FORA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 30, 2000
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department
Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2000)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos / US$1 = 6.1 10 Bolivianos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Andina, S.A.          YPFB Capitalized by YPF of Argentina and Other Argentine Private Cojmpanies
CABI                  Capitania Indigena del Alto y Bajo Isozo (Indigenous Group of the Upper and Lower Isozo)
CAF                   Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (Andean Development Corporation)
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CBH                   Bolivian Chamber of Hydrocarbons
CCTI                  Consejo de Coordinacion Tecnico Interinstitucional (Inter-institutional Technical Coordinating
Council)
CDF                   Comprehensive Development Framework
Chaco, S.A.           YPFB Capitalized by AMOCO
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
CIDOB                 Confederacion Indigena del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia Boliviana (Indigenous Confederation of the
Bolivian Eastern, Chaco and Amazonian Regions)
CTR                   Consejo Tecnico Regional (Regional Technical Council)
EIA                   Environmental Impact Assessment
EL                    Environmental License
ESMAP                 Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FOBOMADE              Foro Boliviano de Medio Ambientey Desarrollo Econ6mico (Bolivian Forum for Environment and
Economic Development)
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GEF                   Global Environmental Facility
GoB                   Government of Bolivia
GTZ                   Aid Organization of Germany
IDA                   International Development Association
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
INRA                  Law of National Service of Agrarian Reform
KFW                   German Aid Agency
LIDEMA                Liga de Defensa del Medio Ambiente (Environmental Defense League)
LIL                    Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO                   Non Governmental Organization
PIP                   Project hnplementation Plan
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PRIP                  Participatory Rural Investment Project
RCDP                  Rural Communities Development Project
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
SERNAP                Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National Service of Protected Areas)
TCO                    Tierras Comunitarias de Origen (Community Lands of Origin)
Transredes S.A.        YPFB Capitalized by Enron/Shell
UCSP                   Unidad de Coordinaci6ny Seguimiento del Proyecto (Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit)
UMA                    Unidad de Medio-Ambiente (Environmental Management Unit of VMEH)
VAIPO                 Vice Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Autochthonous Peoples
VIPFE                 Vice Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing
VMEH                  Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
VMMARNDF              Vice Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry Development
VMPEPP                Vice Ministry of Strategic Planning and Popular Participation
YPFB                  Bolivian National Oil Company
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero
Opportunity Pillar Leader: Andrea Silverman
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Team Leader: Philippe Durand



Bolvia
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
CONTENTS
Page
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT ........................................1
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .......................................                                                                                     2
1. Project development objective: (See Annex 1) ......................................,.,.,.,.,                                                           2
2. Key performance indicators: (See Annex la) ....................................                                                                       2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ....................................                                                                                                     3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1) ................ 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy: ......................                                 ................................................ 3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project: ............................................................... 6
4. Learning and innovation expectations: ......................................................................                                           7
C: PROJECT DE         SCRIPTION  SUMMARY .......................................................................                                             8
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown). 8
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements: .......................................................................                                8
3.  Evaluation and monitoring arrangements: ......................................................................                                     10
D: PROJECT RATIONALE: ......................................................................                                                                10
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS: ......................................................................                                                         10
1. Economic: .......                ............................................................... 10
2. Financial: .......................................................................                                                                   10
3. Technical: .1............
4. Institutional: ........ 11
S. Social: .....................                                                                                                                        11
6.Environmental assessment: ....................                                                                                                        12
7. Participatory approach: ....................                                                                                                         13
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .....................                                                                                                            15
1. Sustainability: .....................                                                                                                                15
2.      Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex  1) ............................................ 15
3.      Possible Controversial Aspects: ...........................................................                                                     16
G: MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ............................................................                                                                      16
1. Conditions of Effectiveness ...........................................................                                                              16
2. Other: ...........................................................                                                                                   16
H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................... 1 6
I: COMPLIANCE WITH IDA POLICIES ...........................................................                                                                  16
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .............................................................                                                                    18
Annex la: Project Design Summary .............................................................                                                                   22
Annex 2: Project Description .............................................................                                                                      29
Annex 2a: Project Implementation Summary .............................................................                                                          31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .............................................................                                                                  32
Annex 4: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .............................................................                                                   33
Annex 5: Inter-Institutional Organizational Structure .............................................................                                             34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................................................                                                35
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .............................................................                                          39
Annex 7: Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy .............................................................                                                  43
Annex 8: Hydrocarbon Sector Regulatory Process for Environmental Licensing .......................................... 44
Annex 9: Documents in the Project File* .............................................................                                                           45
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................................                                                          46
Annex 11: Country at a Glance .............................................................                                                                     48



IDA Maps
Map 1.         Concession Areas (IBRD30380)
Map 2.         Exploration Activity (IBRD 26624R)
Map 3.         National System of Protected Areas (IBRD 30382)
Map 4.         Communal Territories of Origin (IBRD 30383)
Map 5.         Indigenous and Autochthonous Peoples (IBRD 30381)



Bolivia
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru Country Department
Date: May 30, 2000                          Team Leader: Philippe Durand
Country Department Director: Isabel Guerrero    Sector MIanager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Opportunity Pillar Leader: Andrea Silverman  Sector: GI - Oil & Gas Exploration & Development
Project ED: 65902                           Theme(s): Envirornent, Social Development,
Capacity Building
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan  Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [] Yes  [x] No
(Credit) - LIL
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [x] Credit      [] Grant      [] Guarantee    [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDRm): 3.7 (US4.8)
Proposed terms:   [ ] To be defined   [  Multicurrency  [j] Single currency
[x] Standard     [  Fixed         [] LIBOR-based
Variable
Grace period (years):     10
Years to maturity:        40
Commitment fee:           Standard
SERVICE CHARGE:           0.75%
FRONT-END FEE ON IDA    None
CREDIT:
Financing plan:            3 To be defined
Source                     Local                  Foreign                   Total
Government              .75 (US1.00)                0.00                 .75 (US1.00)
IDA                     1.05 (US1.39)           2.57 (US3.41)            3.7 (US4.80)
Other (specify)             0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Total:                  1.80 (US2.39)           2.57 (US3.41)           4.37 (US5.80)
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Responsible agency: Vice Ministry of Energy & Hydrocarbons (VMEH)
Estimated disbursements (EDA FY/SDR M):
FY                 2001             2002            2003             2004
Annual  1.36 (US1.80)    1.36 (US1.80)    0.75 (USO.90)    0.23 (US0.30)
Cumulative  1.36 (US1.80)    2.72 (US3.60)    3.47 (US4.50)    3.70 (US4.80)
Project implementation period: July 2000-June 2003
Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/00              Expected closing date: 12/31/03
Implementing agency: Vice Ministry of Energy & Hydrocarbons (VMEH)
Contact person: Mario Candia, Director of Energy, VMEH
Address: Piso 12, Palacio de Comunicaciones, La Paz, Bolivia
Tel: 591-2-37-40-50          Fax: 591-8-11-38-57           E-mail: mcandia®)energia.gov.bo



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity
Building Project is to improve the social and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector
exploration, production and transport activities. To achieve that objective, the Project will strive to
institutionalize systematic procedures for consultation and participation, as well as mechanisms and
dispositions for increased compliance by oil companies, an evaluation and monitoring system that is both
financially and institutionally sustainable, and a system which allows for the flow of accessible, transparent
and timely information between all stakeholders'.
Specifically, the project will: (a) strengthen the capacity of institutions and communities involved in or
affected by hydrocarbon sector activities to participate in the regulation and mitigation of social and
environmental impacts; (b) improve stakeholder access to relevant information in a timely manner; (c)
improve the capacity of the VMEH for on-site monitoring, evaluation, and reporting; (d) through field
studies in problem areas, increase knowledge of the extent of problems in the development and
implementation of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and increase compliance with EIAs and
application of best practices by oil companies; (e) analyze and develop mechanisnms for financial
sustainability of social and environment management; (f) review and make compatible existing regulations
and develop new regulations when necessary; and (g) develop and pilot a participatory, institutional
framework that would facilitate the processes described above.
2. Key performance indicators: (See Annex la)
Key performance indicators form part of Project Implementation Plan and are divided into two groups: (i)
performance indicators, related to on-site evaluation and monitoring carried out by the UMA; and (ii)
implementation indicators, which assess implementation of key project activities involving all stakeholders.
Key performnance indicators are the following:
Group 1:      (a) Presence of UMA in field monitoring;
(b) Control of compliance with mitigation measures agreed upon;
(c) On-site control of environmental impacts; and
(d) Environmental quality compliance with EIA standards.
Group 2:     (a) Oil company compliance with best practices;
(b) Dissemination by the UMA of EIAs through a website and in the La Paz and Santa
Cruz offices.
(c) Satisfactory participation of government representatives in training program;
(d) Satisfactory participation of government representatives in stakeholder workshops;
(e) Satisfactory participation of civil society representatives in training program;
(f) Satisfactory participation of civil society representatives in sta]keholder workshops;
(g) Effective technical contributions by CCTI and CTRs
(h) Effective participation of CCTI and CTR representatives;
(i) Preparation of a proposed framework to make compatible roles and regulations for
improved social and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector;
(j) Preparation of a proposed mechanism for fnancial and institutional sustainability of
hydrocarbon sector social and environmental management;
(k) Number of stakeholder workshops; and
(1) Completion and dissemination of participatory case studies.
Stakeholders, broadly defined, are representatives from the national, regional and local government agencies,
indigenous and non-indigenous people's community organizations, oil companies, non-governmental
organizations, prefectures and municipalities.



3
The definitions and methodologies for the independent evaluation of indicators are included in Annex I a
and in the Project Implementation Plan.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17890                      Date of latest CAS discussion: 6/16/98
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) proposes that the World Bank focus its effort on several themes,
including: (a) increasing the quality and quantity of investments; (b) improving physical and productive
infrastructure; (c) increasing productivity; and (d) developing an efficient and transparent state. These
themes are central to the sustainable growth of the country and will facilitate the successful regulation and
mitigation of hydrocarbon sector social and environmental impacts, as well as stakeholder commitment to
and integration into this process. A primary objective of the Project is to enhance the quality and
compliance of private investments in the hydrocarbon sector in the long term through the fostering of
sustainable institutions, regulations and processes. As a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), the Project
will seek to establish and test improved mechanisms for the regulation and mitigation of social and
environmental impacts are implemented, by evaluating and piloting new mechanisms to strengthen sector
institutions, harmonize regulations and develop and implement sustainable financing mechanisms.
The World Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy was developed through a long process of consultation
and participation in five distinct phases starting with the National Dialogues, a World Bank Group Team
workshop on November 11-12, 1997 in Washington followed by a joint GoB/World Bank Group
workshop, a joint GoB/External donors workshop, GoB/Donors working groups, and ending with a
Consultative Group meeting on April 28-29, 1998 in Paris. Though the Project is not mentioned as one of
CAS's key lending operations, it was discussed in the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and
will contribute to the Opportunity Pillar by contributing to: (a) increasing and maintaining physical
productive infrastructure and the capacity of the public and private sectors to manage it; and (b)
strengthening the regulatory framework and promoting private participation. The Project will specifically
contribute to strengthen the key performance indicators of the CAS and CDF in terms of mainstreaming
environmental and social safeguard compliance in infrastructure projects.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
The 1997 reform and capitalization of the hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia, coupled with the huge Brazilian
natural gas market demand has intensified private sector investments in exploration/production and
construction of pipelines. Private oil companies are investing more than US$800 million per year, on
average. This represents more than ten times what YPFB, the National Oil Company, invested prior to its
capitalization. There are now seventeen oil companies active in exploration and production activities with a
drilling program of about nineteen exploration wells a year. The 600 Km Bolivian section of the Bolivia-
Brazil natural gas pipeline was inaugurated on February 19, 1999 and gas export to Brazil began on July
1, 1999. Private companies Shell and Enron are constructing a branch of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline to
Cuiaba in Brazil. Hydrocarbon sector activities presently occur in five prefectures, nine indigenous people
comnmunity areas and nine protected areas and result in significant social and environmental impacts (See
maps 3 and 4).
Recent experiences in the sector demonstrate that there is a strong need for improved socio-envirormental
management of hydrocarbon exploration, production and transportation activities. With limited human,
technical and financial resources, the government entities have provided slow or inadequate response in
many of the ongoing cases. The quality of private investments in the hydrocarbon sector, which are vital to



4
the sustainable economic growth of Bolivia, can only be maintained over the long term if actions are taken
now to address the following issues:
Lack of compliance with the social and environmental regulation requirements a7nd unmitigated
environmental liabilities - Approximately seventeen oil companies are undertaking hydrocarbon
exploration and/or production activities. Certain companies have complied with social and environmental
regulations and have developed a good reputation in complying with the social and environmental
requirements. However, for others it is difficult to verify whether they may have taken shortcuts in
compliance with these regulations for economic reasons. In addition, some companies are hesitant to
consider local communities and, particularly, indigenous peoples' communities as partners in any phase of
their activities. Meanwhile, local communities and indigenous peoples' organizations are requesting
increased participation in the regulation of hydrocarbon activities. Consequently, oil companies are
drawing criticisms from local civil society organizations and international NGOs.
While there are specific and obvious cases of environmental and social impacts as a result of non-
compliance, it is difficult to assess the practices of oil companies because: (i) the government agencies are
centralized and lack adequate capacity and resources for field monitoring; (ii) there is inadequate
monitoring in the field by independent consultants; (iii) local government and civil society organizations do
not have the capacity or resources to carry out substantial independent monitoring and do not have access
to sources of information or channels for logging complaints; and, (iv) the lack of definition and agreement
of what makes good practices by oil companies in Bolivia.
Lack of coordination and greement between national, regional and local governIment agencies on
respective roles - The stakeholders involved in hydrocarbon activities have distinct interpretations of
recently issued laws and the institutional framework for the implementation of regulations. As a result, a
vacuum exists between certain regulations and the lack of operational procedures and practices. For
instance, several national, regional and local government agencies are involved in matters dealing with
regulation and mitigation of social and enviromnental issues in the hydrocarbon sector but with unclear
mandates and often times overlapping responsibilities. In addition to the VMEH, this includes the Vice
Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources, and Forestry Development (VMMARNDF), the Vice
Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Autochthonous Peoples (VAIPO), the Vice Ministry of Strategic
Planning and Popular Participation (VMPEPP), the National Service of Protected Areas (SERNAP),
regional prefectures, local municipalities, and a residual enviromnental entity remaining in the Bolivian
National Oil Company (YPFB). Other stakeholders with vested interests include oil companies, indigenous
peoples, local affected communities, and non governmental organizations have taken on a proactive role in
regulation of hydrocarbon operations. While existing laws, such as the Law of Polpular Participation and
the Law of Decentralization, provide frameworks for processes of participation and decentralization, no
mechanisms for implementing them have been put into practice.
Lack of financial sustainabilitv of the social and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector -
While multilateral and regional financial agencies and the donor community are providing some assistance
to GoB2 to address social and environmental impacts and increase local capacity, this assistance has
underestimated the social and environmental consequences of the unexpected success of the reform and
capitalization of the hydrocarbon sector and the opening up of the large Brazilian gas market to exports
from Bolivia. As a result, the UMA, within the VMEH, has a small staff, but lacks adequate technical and
human resources as well as an information base to fulfill the demand for enforcing compliance with
regulations, particularly in oil and gas activities in the field.
2Under IDB Credit 929 important resources are directed mainly to regional and local government agencies and focused on the
forestry sector.



5
Lack of expertise, experience and validitv of local consultants to support regulation and mitigation
activities -. While there is a small pool of competent local consultants managed by the VMMARNDF,
they are not properly trained and certified in the independent regulation and mitigation of social and
environmental impacts of the hydrocarbon sector. Often times, local consultants who have not been
certified in their expertise are selected, or they are not selected in an open and transparent process. In
addition, some consultants are called upon to provide expertise in areas for which they have not been
trained.
Lack of credible consultation process by oil companies and clear mechanisms for social compensation -
Since the passage of the Law of National Service of Agrarian Reform (INRA) and the Popular
Participation Law in 1996, indigenous groups have become better organized at both the national and
regional levels. Indigenous groups have taken independent initiatives in protecting themselves from impacts
of oil company operations. Nonetheless, they have a tendency to negotiate with oil companies on a case by
case basis lacking national regulations to guide their effort and ensure consistent rules with which
companies should comply. At present, neither the oil companies nor the indigenous groups have a clear
idea of what is being negotiated (access, right of way, entrance, potential damages, and compensation).
Without a system of checks and balances in this process, dispersed and uncoordinated compensation
activities from oil companies will have little impact on long-term social and economic development of these
communities. The recently drafted Law of Petroleum Operations in Community Lands of Origin, which
was developed by jointly by the VMEH and VAIPO and is currently under review, sets forth a general
framework for the assessment of social and environmental impacts and compensation measures.
Lack of systematic processes of participation and information sharing among stakeholders - The lack of
agreement on coordination and cooperation between national, regional and local government agencies and
other stakeholders complicates the development of processes of participation and coordination. No
communication or consultation programs have been developed for the different stakeholders in order to
systematically inform them and receive feedback on issues related to the regulation and mitigation of social
and environmental impacts resulting from hydrocarbon sector activities such as exploration, production or
transport.
Lack of socio-environmental management strategy to resolve problems - The actual process of regulation
and mitigation and of awarding licenses is done without necessarily focusing on key issues such as ensuring
enough resources to address critical social and environmental issues adequately, verifying EIAs information
and implementation, and assessing compliance of oil companies with best social and environmental
practices. IDB credit 598 is funding a social and environmental study (Plan de Acci6n Ambiental del
Sector de Hidrocarburos) which will provide an information base, a common map and a prioritization of
social and environmental actions. However, the IDB credit provides for very little capacity building of the
UMA and does not address the resolution of the above-mentioned issues. The environmental licensing and
reporting process is an increasing source of friction between oil companies, government agencies and green
NGOs. Furthermore, no mechanisms exist to encourage improved environmental actions on behalf of the
oil companies.
Governnent Strategy
The successive governments in Bolivia have passed abundant new legislation. However, they have been
much less successful at building the institutions and mechanisms necessary to implement the reforms. The
GoB has created more than 300 municipalities through the Ley de Participacion Popular (Popular
Participation Law) and registered more than 13,000 self-defined peasant community organizations,
indigenous peoples' community organizations, and neighborhood organizations (juntas vecinales) with
rights to oversee government operations and fight corruption. While many communities are exercising this
power, the process will take many years to become institutionalized and effective. With the help of IDA' s



6
Rural Communities Development Project (RCDP- Credit No.2772, closed 8/99) and the Participatory
Rural Investment Project (PRIP - Credit No. 3065), 123 municipalities all over BIolivia (and several in the
areas under oil and gas exploration) are carrying out processes of participatory municipal development.
More than 100 municipalities have replicated these on their own or through the help of diverse entities.
Meanwhile, the lack of institutional development at the national, regional and local levels and continuing
corruption constrain private sector development and the full implementation of a roverty reduction
strategy. The government has recognized these problems and is placing particular attention to building
institutional capacity for service delivery at all levels of government within the appropriate participatory
framework.
The 1992 Environmental Law called for the creation of a competent sectoral entity for the regulation of
environmental impacts in the sector. The recently completed Hydrocarbon Sector Reform and
Capitalization Credit (Credit No. 2762 BO), financed by IDA, supported the consolidation of the
Environmental Management Unit (JMA) within the VMEH to prevent, regulate and mitigate
enviromnental impacts resulting from hydrocarbon sector activities and supported the initial consultants to
the UMA. A strategic environmental assessment carried out on the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline identified
upstream activities as the most sensitive social and enviromnental issue for the hyclrocarbon sector in
Bolivia. The GoB has acknowledged that improved development through cleaner operations which comply
with regulations and best practices is in their best interest.
The recently restructured IDB credit (Credit No. 598) is fnancing a strategic regional environmental
impact assessment of oil and gas operations in Bolivia, and another restructured IDB credit (Credit No.
929) is strengthening the capacity of the local prefectures and municipalities to enforce environmental
regulations dealing with all sectors but focusing primarily on the forestry sector. With the increase in
hydrocarbon investment following the capitalization, and subsequently in social anid environmental impacts,
the VMEH identified the need to strengthen its response by proposing to strengthen the sector's capacity
for monitoring of social and environmental impacts. In the context of the Project, the central government is
taking the initiative to develop and institutionalize a sustainable and improved social and environmental
management framework for the regulation of hydrocarbon operations.
Multilateral and bilateral aid to Bolivia for biodiversity conservation related to impacts from upstream gas
operations is significant, including Global Environmental Facility (GEF) projects, such as the
Sustainability of Bolivian Protected Areas Project currently under preparation, the German Aid Program
(GTZ and KFW), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In addition,
under a Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)/Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) program, IDA has supported a consensus-building process betwveen national
government agencies, oil companies, indigenous peoples' community organization representatives and non-
governmental organizations which has led to an agreement on specific regulations of companies oil
operations in indigenous people community areas. This regulation, which provides for a process of
consultation and participation with the indigenous people communities in hydrocarbon sector project
development and implementation, is presently under review.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
The GoB is characterized by a centralized decision-making culture. Even following the recently issued
Decentralization Law and the Popular Participation Law, national, regional and local government
institutions remain weak. The decentralization process has distributed competencies among many actors,
but the rules of coordination and communication between them have not been well-developed or
established. Although advances have been made in social and rural programs, this lack of coordination and



7
communication affects the integration of key stakeholders in decision-making, particularly on matters of
social and environmental regulation and mitigation.
A central issue to be addressed and from which significant lessons will be derived is related to the complex
nature of institutional competencies as interpreted from existing laws. While the Ley Organica de
Municipalidades (Organic Law of Municipalities) gives municipal governments the competence for the
preservation of the environment, control of contamination, and maintenance of ecological equilibrium, the
Ley de Medio Ambiente (Environmental Law) establishes (Art. 74) on the other hand that the Ministry of
Energy and Hydrocarbons, in coordination with the Vice Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and
Forestry Development elaborates the specific, pertinent norms and according to Art. 28, they both remain
in charge of the control, monitoring, and regulation of environmental impacts, mitigation and protection
plans. As a result there is no concrete mechanism that puts order to competencies of different levels of
government and allows a working relationship between all stakeholders. In turn, there are no clear and well
established mechanisms and standards for participation.
The Project will apply a process of learning and innovation through pilot studies and analysis, information
sharing, inter-institutional coordination, and training to facilitate the consultation and development of
mechanisms for the institutionalization of stakeholder capacity to prevent, regulate and mitigate social and
environmental impacts of the hydrocarbon sector. In addition, the Project tests an inter-institutional
structure that allows for the participation of relevant stakeholders from the government and civil society at
the national and local levels to ensure representative stakeholder participation in project implementation
activities. As this process will be applied for the first time in Bolivia, it will require flexibility and
adjustment as the Project progresses.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[ I Economic [x] Financial [x] Technical [x] Institutional
[x] Social [x] Environmental [x] Participation [x] Other
(a) Financial expectations are to develop and implement financial mechanisms to ensure that institutions
dealing with regulation and mitigation of social environmental impacts would be sustainable and effective;
(b) Technical expectations are to: (i) develop methodologies and mechanisms for improved environmental
management of the hydrocarbon sector; (ii) design systematic mechanisms for social compensation; (iii)
promote and maintain international social and environmental best practices in hydrocarbon sector activities;
and (iv) develop an information system that would allow a two-way flow of information between
stakeholders and facilitate the consultation and collaboration processes;
(c) Institutional expectations are: (i) to develop a responsive participatory evaluation and monitoring
system that would involve multiple institutional actors at the national and regional levels; (ii) to develop
and strengthen capacities of government institutions, local consultants and other stakeholders and to
institutionalize the consultation and participation process; and, (iii) to enhance cross-sectoral inter-
institutional coordination at central and regional levels. As a result of the Project operations, it may be
necessary to review and adjust the present institutional arrangements, perhaps to rely more on local
stakeholders for the regulation and mitigation work, thus minimizing the central State role to that of
planning regulation and mitigation operations and ensuring compliance with norms and standards;
(d) Participation expectations are: (i) to develop and strengthen mechanisms for informed stakeholder
participation in the regulation and mitigation process; (ii) to establish systematic consultation processes
between oil companies and locally affected communities, including indigenous populations; (iii) to foster
the processes of participatory municipal planning through appropriate studies, workshops and the CTRs;



8
(e) Social and environmental expectations are the Project will provide the lessons and solutions to improve
the social and environmental management of hydrocarbon sector activities, resulting in the minimization of
further social conflicts and environmental impacts.
(f) Since this Project would be the first experience in the sector within the region, the lessons learned would
help decide whether it could be replicated in other sectors and other countries of the region. Specifically,
the Project could provide the basis for developing specific procedures for monitoring social and
environmental impacts in other sectors such as mining, as well as a comprehensive framework for
participatory monitoring of social and environmental impacts.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
;       00   0 00       00       EIndie  IDA-  % of IDA-
Component             Category           Costs     %wof   1inancing       financing
(Iss millon)  Total  (US$ million)
Institutional        Capacity Building        2.60        45        2.13          82
Strengthening**
Logistics and        Physical                 0.32        6         0.28          88
Commnunication
Information Base and   Capacity Building      1.68        29        1.48          88
Studies**
Coordination and     Project Management       1.20        20        0.91          76
Monitoring**
Total Project Costs                           5.80       100        4.80          83
*     Includes taxes
**    Indicative costs include physical and price contingencies of 10%.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The Project will be implemented over a period of 36 months, beginning in July
2000.
Implementation Arrangements: The Unidad de MedioAmbiente (Enviromnental Management Unit -
UMA) of the Vice Ministerio de Energia e Hidrocarburos (Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons -
VMEH) as the responsible entity for monitoring and evaluation of social and environmental impacts in the
hydrocarbon sector will irnplement the corresponding project sub-component within Institutional
Strengthening and will provide technical guidance for the implementation of remaining components. A
satellite office of the UMA - Red de Monitoreo - will be established in Santa Cruz de la Sierra with
environmental specialists to ensure improved regulation and mitigation on the ground.
A small Unidad de Coordinacion y Seguimiento del Proyecto (Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
- UCSP) will be established within the VMEH to provide administrative support for the project and
conduct procurement and disbursement operations. The UCSP will operate with independent and
transparent management and financial systems and procurement and disbursement procedures. The UCSP
will be responsible for organizing consultation and training events, in coordination with the CCTI and
CTRs, and it will support the work of the CCTI and act as a Secretariat to the CCICI. It will be headed by
a Director and staffed with an accountant and procurement and administrative staff, to IDA's satisfaction.



9
Prior to negotiations, the contents of the final Operations Manual, the Project Implementation Plan,
including the detailed budget and draft Terms of Reference for project activities were discussed and agreed
upon with IDA.
The project will establish a Consejo de Coordinaci6n Tecnico Interinstitutional (Inter-Institutional
Technical Coordinating Council - CCTI) at the national level with representatives from the Viceministry of
Environment, Natural Resources, and Forestry Development (VMMARNDF), Viceministry of Indigenous
Affairs and Autochtonous Peoples (VAIPO), Viceministry of Strategic Planning and Popular Participation
(VMPEPP), the Viceministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons (VMEH), the National Service of Protected
Areas (SERNAP), and representation from the Confederaci6n Indigena del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia
Boliviana (Indigenous Confederation of the Bolivian Orient, Chaco and Amazon - CIDOB), two non-
governmental organizations (NGO), an academic institution, and the Cdmara Boliviana de Hidrocarburos
(Bolivian Chamber of Hydrocarbons - CBH). The objective of the CCTI is to provide a space for
technical analysis and interchange with regard to proposed training programs, information systems,
procedures for consultation and participation and the scope of proposed studies, consultations, and
workshops. The CCTI will play a key role in analyzing the findings of the studies to develop and propose
modified regulations and an improved framework for social and environmental management. From time to
time other actors, such as the Superintendencia de Hidrocarburos (Hydrocarbon Superintendence)3 or
YPFB, municipalities and others will be called upon by the CCTI to participate in relevant technical
discussions.
In addition to the CCTI, Consejos Tecnicos Regionales (Regional Technical Councils - CTR) will be
established in the four regions with hydrocarbon production - Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, and
Tarija - and will serve as regional entities of participation and consultation during project implementation.
A diagnostic study and consultation will be carried out in collaboration with the CCTI within the first
quarter of the project to assess whether these regions are adequate and to determine participants in the
CTRs. The CCTI will facilitate and ensure the effective participation of stakeholders in CTRs as well in
training and workshops. Representation on the CTRs may include prefectures, municipalities, indigenous
and non-indigenous peoples' communities and other civil society institutions as identified by the CCTI
through local consultation based on the above-mentioned diagnostic. Specifically, the CTRs will help to
develop mechanisms for local stakeholder feedback, participate in the technical review of proposed studies,
information systems, consultation mechanisms and proposed training programs. CTRs will also be
responsible for facilitating systematic communication and consultation with grassroots organizations on the
same. During negotiations, representatives from the VMEH established the detailed steps to be taken prior
to effectiveness for the establishment of the CCTI and CTRs.
Financial management. The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia conducted a review in the UCSP
of the accounting, controls over disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level
of administrative staff. It was determined that the UCSP has in place accounting and internal control
systems that accord with such accounting standards or agreed format and that reliably record and report
all assets and liabilities and financial transactions of the project including those transactions involving the
use of IDA funds; and provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project
activities. It was agreed that by June 30, 2000 the UCSP will complete establishment of its financial
management system in order to enable it to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Financial Audit Arrangements. An independent external auditing firm, satisfactory to IDA, will be hired
by credit effectiveness to carry out annual audits of the project. The Guidelines and Terms of Reference
for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region
3The Hydrocarbon Superintendence has responsibility for regulation of hydrocarbon activities, but not specifically social and
environmental regulations.



10
published May 1999 will be used by external auditors, in accordance with existing IDA procedures. Audit
reports would be presented to IDA no later than six months after the closing date of the previous fiscal
year. The auditors will conduct an assessment of UCSP internal controls not later than six months after
credit effectiveness.
3. Evaluation and monitoring arrangements:
Monitoring: The principal responsibility for monitoring and reporting progress against quantitative
indicators as agreed with IDA in the implementation plan under the Project will rest with the UCSP in La
Paz. Standardized monitoring forms, which include objectively verifiable indicators of project
performance, are included in the project implementation plan to facilitate monitoring and situation analysis.
In addition, project implementation reports will include copies of the minutes of CCTI and CTR meetings
and reports on the status of agreed actions from those meetings.
Evaluation: Three external evaluations will be contracted to independent consultants on an annual basis.
The first one will include the evaluation of the performance indicators as well as project performance for
the first year of implementation. The second one will evaluate the performance benchmarks for the second
year of implementation. The third evaluation will be carried out prior to project closing and will evaluate
performance indicators and overall project performance as an input to the project completion report. These
consultants will work with the CCTI, CTR and other stakeholders through participatory methods to carry
out their evaluations. The evaluations, with the exception of the year two evaluation, will focus on: (a) the
effectiveness of the arrangements and mechanisms to foster participatory development among stakeholders,
(b) the achievements of tasks fnanced by the Project; (c) the effectiveness of the administrative
arrangements and mechanism, including contracting, procurement, disbursement, accounting, and auditing,
and (d) the efficiency and sustainability of the financial and institutional arrangements developed for
participatory regulation and mitigation. In addition, the independent reviewer will evaluate the impact
indicators of social and environmental management and compliance, as detailed in the project operations
manual. The results of the evaluation will be shared and discussed with the CCTI and the CTRs, and will
be used to re-direct project implementation, if necessary, and guide the preparation of follow-up
interventions.
D: Project Rationale:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic:
The project has not been subjected to a conventional economic rate of return analysis since its immediate
objectives and outputs are primarily institutional. Nonetheless, the project will seekc to stimulate the use of
improved technologies and practices by oil companies which will prove economically beneficial in the long-
term and reduce the costs of mitigating damages resulting from adverse social and environmental impacts.
2. Financial:                   NPV=US$                      Million; FRR=     %
The LIL is a pilot project and full cost recovery is not a project objective. However, fiscal sustainability is
an important consideration in the design of this project. Although the VMEH has committed itself to
improving the institutional framework for social and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector,
at present, the current level of public expenditure on enviromnent in general is low. As part of the studies
under Component 3, the executing agency on conjunction with the CCTI and CTRs will assess the costs for
the institutionalization of improved social and environmental management and develop mechanisms for
long-term financial sustainability.



11
3. Technical:
Presently, there is little systematic knowledge regarding the social and environmental impacts resulting
from sector activities, international best practices and systematic forms of social compensation and
mitigation. The Project will support the development of a good practice manual to be used as a reference in
assessing practices of oil companies in social and environmental aspects. Government agencies lack the
resources and therefore the capacity to adequately regulate and mitigate impacts, while regional and local
stakeholders are not provided with the technical capacity and regulatory mechanisms for field-based
monitoring. A principal activity of the LIL is the development of training programs through consultation
with local communities, indigenous groups and civil society institutions to build capacity in the regulation
and mitigation of social and environmental impacts of hydrocarbon sector activities.
4. Institutional:
A central issue to the design of the LIL is the lack of clarity and roles for effective regulation and
mitigation of social and environmental impacts of hydrocarbon sector activities. Government agencies at
the central and regional levels have competing and overlapping responsibilities, while municipalities and
local communities have presence in the field but lack the capacity and legal claim to regulate. Overall, the
institutional framework for social and environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector is inadequate
and lacks the financial and human resources to be sustainable. To address these issues, consultants will be
contracted during implementation to help analyze the issues of compatibility and enforcement of laws,
regulations, procedures and roles, and propose an improved institutional framework.
5. Social:
The key social issues to be addressed by the project relate to the social imnpacts of hydrocarbon sector
activities on local indigenous and non-indigenous communities and the lack of clarity with regard to
participation and consultation mechanisms. At present, hydrocarbon sector activities presently occur in
nine indigenous peoples' community areas and nine protected areas, yet no clear mechanisms exist to
systematically mitigate and compensate for social impacts. Since the passage of the Law of National
Service of Agrarian Reform (INRA) and the Popular Participation Law in 1996, indigenous peoples'
community organizations in particular have become better organized at both the national and regional
levels, but they have tended to negotiate with oil companies on a case by case basis. A lack of a regulatory
framework exists to guide their effort and ensure consistent rules with which companies should comply.
More specifically, the project seeks to address the following social issues: (1) the lack of agreement among
stakeholders on proposed mitigation measures; (2) the lack of institutional regulations to clearly define the
participation of the various stakeholders; (3) the need for the development of a sectoral participatory action
plan which incorporates all stakeholders; (4) the lack of methodologies and mechanisms for the
identification of potential social impacts to determine their effect/magnitude/severity on affected
populations; and (5) the subsequent need for a framework for compensation of affected groups, both
indigenous and non-indigenous.
Under a previous CIDA/ESMAP funded program, a process of consultation and collaboration between oil
companies and an indigenous peoples' umbrella organization was successfully applied in reaching a
consensus over regulations of oil companies' operations in indigenous peoples' community areas. A new
CIDA/ESMAP funded program initiated on April 1, 1999 is focusing some small resources on training of
indigenous people representatives from concession areas on hydrocarbon sector activities and regulations of
oil companies operations in indigenous people community areas. A first meeting was held in Santa Cruz on
July 20-24, 1999 in which the indigenous people representatives identified the elements of the training
program, indicators and criteria for selection of trainees. A second meeting was held on October 15, 1999
to review the proposed training program. The Project intends to draw valuable lessons from these



12
experiences in order to further assess training and communication needs and to comply with the regulation
for petroleum operations in communal lands of origin.
In addition, IDA credits (Rural Communities Development Project, Participatory Rural Investment Project,
National Land Administration Project, Brazil Gas Sector Development Project) are currently providing
resources for land titling and indigenous people development plans for many community areas falling
within the exploration and production acreage of oil companies, and thus will facilitate integration of
indigenous people communities in the consultation and collaboration process.
6.Environmental assessment:          Environmental Category  [ ] A    [ ] B    [x] C
In Bolivia there exists three groups of social and environmental liabilities or obligations in upstream
hydrocarbon operations, including within protected areas: (i) those inherited as liabilities by the capitalized
companies from YPFB as a result of the capitalization process and which the companies are committed to
deal with; (ii) those which the capitalized companies have identified since the initiation of their operations
in the field and for which the State may be liable for; and (iii) those obligations resulting from the normal
new operations of all the oil companies. The second group of environmental liabilities is still under
discussion between the government and the capitalized companies. Agreement needs to be reached between
the parties on the quality of the environmental audit carried out by the capitalized companies, priority of
mitigation actions on the liabilities identified in different areas and the sources and financing mechanism to
implement mitigation plans.
Multilateral and bilateral aid to Bolivia for biodiversity conservation related to impact from upstream gas
operations is significant, including GEF, GTZ, KFW, and USAID projects. Hovwever, the need to address
the special environmental and social risks posed by oil and gas operations within protected areas is as
important as for other areas.
A strategic environmental assessment carried out on the gas pipeline identified upstream activities as the
most sensitive social and environmental issue for the hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia.. While numerous
environmental actions are underway in the sector, significant gaps persist. Social and environmental action
plans and an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan along the Bolivia-Brazil natural gas pipeline route are
being implemented as requirements for a Bank-IDB-CAF fnanced Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline (Gas Sector
Development Project World Bank Loan in Brazil). In addition, a recently restructu;red IDB credit (Credit
No. 598) is financing a strategic regional environmental impact assessment of oil and gas operations in
Bolivia, and another restructured IDB credit (Credit No. 929) is strengthening the capacity of the local
prefectures and municipalities to enforce environmental regulations dealing with all sectors, but focusing
primarily on the forestry sector.
Using a participatory approach, this project will help to strengthen the capacity of stakeholders to carry out
regulation and mitigation of social and environmental impacts of hydrocarbon activities, while
institutionalizing systematic processes of consultation and participation. Project-supported clarification of
the "rules of the game" for environmental and social assessment, mitigation, and compensation
requirements seek to provide a disincentive for companies with poor social and environmental practices to
continue investing. In addition, it is expected that these improved "rules of the game" will, in the long run,
reduce adverse environmental and related social impacts to a far greater extent by promoting increased
compliance by oil companies with regulations and good practices. As no baseline data on environmental
impacts is available for the sector, the Environmental Analysis for this project, to be carried out during
project implementation, will examine the extent to which the project is producing improved environmental
and social results on the ground.
Numerous local groups and green NGOs have been consulted as part of project identification and
preparation. The Environmental Dialogues, a conference between the World Bank and stakeholders
(national, regional and local government agencies, oil companies, indigenous people organizations



13
representatives and non governmental organizations), was organized in Santa Cruz on April 21, 1999 to
specifically discuss hydrocarbon sector issues. The identification and preparation missions also met
separately with the National Chamber of Hydrocarbons which represents all oil companies working in
Bolivia, the Confederaci6n Indigena del Oriente, Chaco y Amazonia Boliviana (Indigenous Confederation
of the Bolivian Eastern, Chaco and Amazon Regions - CIDOB), Capitania Indigena del Alto y Bajo Isozo
(Indigenous Group representing the Upper and Lower Isozo - CABI), the Liga de Defensa del Medio
Ambiente (Environmental Defense League - LIDEMA), the Foro Boliviano de Medio Ambiente y
Desarrollo Econ6mico (Bolivian Forum for the Enviromnent and Economic Development -
FOBOMADE), and Tr6pico. During the preparation mission, project team members also met with
consultants (Fundaci6n MEDMIN, Servicios Ambientales, Paraba Azul S.RL., Monitoreo S.RL.), the
Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National Service for Protected Areas - SERNAP), and
representatives from the municipal, prefecture and national level governments who have experience in
evaluation and monitoring of hydrocarbon operations. Additionally, three stakeholder workshops were held
throughout project preparation with over 40 different participants, including the above mentioned groups as
well as participants from the Superintendencia Forestal, GeoPlus, Conservation International - Bolivia,
the World Wildlife Fund - Bolivia, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
Proyecto KAA-IYA, among others. Project issues were also discussed during a meeting between local and
international environmental NGOs and the World Bank's Vice President for Latin America and the
Caribbean.
7. Participatory approach:
The Law of Administrative Decentralization decentralizes most of the national government operations and
services (those not devolved to the municipalities in the Law of Popular Participation) to the regional
prefectures. While the prefectures are arms of the national govermment, the municipalities are locally
autonomous. The primary beneficiaries and affected groups consist of the indigenous and non-indigenous
peoples' communities located in areas of oil operations, non governmental organizations and national,
regional and local governments and agencies, as well as local consultants. They are involved as follows:
(a) Many indigenous and non-indigenous peoples' communities have been impacted in the past by
hydrocarbon activities and as a result have organized themselves for better protection. They have been
successful in the past in influencing the operational regulations of some oil companies, but in isolated
cases. Indigenous and non-indigenous groups are important players by seeking active participation and
integration in: (i) the decision-making process of regulation and mitigation; (ii) the development of
indigenous people and community development plans; and, (iii) in ways to access more of the hydrocarbon
sector rent. Locally affected comnmunities lack the capacity to promote within their organization the
training of their members to become protagonists in the social and environmental management process;
(b) Both local and national level civil society organizations as well as international non governmental
organizations play a major role by bringing attention to social and environmental impacts in the
hydrocarbon sector and the perceived weaknesses of governmental and international financing agencies.
National and local level organizations have been active and productive participants in the preparation of the
project. These stakeholders have proven to be better partners when consulted in a systematic manner and
provided training opportunities in the regulation and mitigation of social and environmental impacts of
hydrocarbon sector operations;
(c) There are government agencies which represent the policy making (VMEH, VMMARNDF, VAIPO,
VMPEPP) and others with regulatory functions (UMA of the VMEH, Directorates of VMMARNDF and
VAIPO) regarding the regulation of social and environmental impacts, and the licensing of companies in
the hydrocarbon sector. The VMMARNDF, in the case of the enviromnent, initiates and issues legislation
and regulations and controls and monitors the application of the regulations. In the case of hydrocarbon



14
activities, VMEH is the responsible party at the central level for monitoring and regulating the upstream
impacts. These agencies have in the past initiated consultation processes, but have limited capacity to
intervene in the field and much less capacity to organize wide ranging consultation processes with all
stakeholders, and as a result have influenced social and environmental matters in the hydrocarbon sector
haphazardly and without full participation of stakeholders;
(d) Local consultants are mainly independent consultants, some of whom are speciialized in hydrocarbon
environmental projects. They have not had a proactive role in the past and have tended to represent locally
more experienced foreign firms. Their role however could become important in iniluencing the consultation
and cooperation with stakeholders as their capacity is improved through training in areas of expertise where
they appear to be lacking.



15
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                    Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Course corrections of Project may prove  M             Conduct beneficiary/stakeholder
challenging during project implementation;             assessment & midterm review;
Government/stakeholders relationship do not  S         Establish CCTI to ensure transparency,
maintain a spirit of dialogue and partnership;          collaboration and participation between
all stakeholders.
Government agencies do not collaborate on   S          Establish institutional framework which
compatibilization of regulations and                   ensures the collaboration of the
respective roles;                                      competent government agencies and
incorporate conflict resolution measures.
(CCTI)
Agreement on sustainability mechanisms not  S          Utilize stakeholder workshops for
achieved between stakeholders;                          consensus building. Maintain ongoing
systematic consultation and
participation throughout project.
From Components to Outputs
Stakeholders not willing to enter into  M              Ensure inclusion and participation
consultation and collaboration with                    through effective two way flow of
Government agencies;                                   information, CCTI and CTRs;
Indigenous peoples community            M               (l)Maintain evenly distributed flow of
representatives decision making process not             information; (2)Training to provide for
working;                                                conflict resolution and consensus
building; (3)Establish clear rules;
High turnover rate of trained civil servants    S       Sustainable fmancing mechanism
and other stakeholders;                                established. High technical standards
maintained.
Results of the process are not          S               Maintain participation of policy making
institutionalized;                                     entities in CCTI to ensure ownership in
proposed regulations and policy
changes;
The GoB does not support a sustainable  S               Maintain open dialogue between
financing mechanism for continued social and            stakeholders, VMEH and VIPFE.
environmental management of hydrocarbon
sector.
Overall Risk Rating                     S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Moderate Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None are expected.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) the UCSP's financial management system acceptable to IDA is fully established;
(ii) the Inter-institutional Technical Coordination Committee is fully operational; and,
(iii) the independent auditors have been appointed.
2. Other
(i) UCSP and UMA are staffed by individuals with experience and qualifications and under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA;
(ii) independent external reviews are conducted every year;
(iii) audit reports are produced not later than June 30 each year;
(iv) a review of UCSP internal controls is carried out not later than 6 months after credit
effectiveness (as per DCA Section 4.03); and,
(v) Project Management Reports to be produced starting not later than December 31, 2000 (as per
DCA Section 4.02).
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ]    1. a) The engineering documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[X]    1. b) Not applicable.
[X]   2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of the LIL.
[XI   3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ]    4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions.
I: Compliance with IDA Policies
[x]  1. This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
[ I 2. The following exceptions to IDA policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable IDA policies.



17
C~~
Team Leader: ilippe Durand
,      4~~~~
Sector Mansr/Director: Dann       ziger
Opportunity Pillar Leader: Andrea Silverman



18
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Hierarcby of            Key Performance             Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Objective     :            Indicators                Evaluation             __      _     _    _
Sector-related CAS         Sector Indicators:        Sector / Country            (from Goal to World
Goal:                                                Reports:                   Bank Mission)
Improve the framework for   Mainstreamed                                         1. GoB to effectively
the regulation and         environmental and social                             implement structural
mitigation of social and   safeguard measures in                                 reforms and does not
environmental impacts of    hydrocarbon sector;                                  postpone the necessary
hydrocarbon activities.                                                         fiscal year adjustment;
2. Achieving social and
envilronmental regulation
enforcement with
stakeholder participation
results in improved quality
of investments;
Follow-on
Development
Objective:
The Project success will
facilitate the development
of an efficient and
transparent role by the State
in the hydrocarbon sector.
Project Development    Outcome / Impact              Project Reports:            (from Objective to
Objective:                Indicators:                                            Goal)
To improve the social and    1. An increasing number of   1. Project Coordination and   1. Operationalization of
environmental management  oil companies adequately   Monitoring Unit quarterly    sector strategy based on
of the hydrocarbon sector  comply with regulations and  reports;                 decentralization and
activities, such as        follow internationally    2. Annual external          participation;
exploration, production and   recognized environmental    consultants evaluations  2. Broad support within the
transport.                 best practices;           reports;                    government and civil
2. Sustainable financing  3. CCTI and CTRs periodic  society for the process of
mechanism established and   reports/beneficiary      consuiltation and
capacity building achieved;   assessments.           collaboration with
3. Stakeholders agree upon                            stakeholders;
and test adapted roles of                            3. Unanticipated exogenous
involved institutions,                                factors affecting the
procedures for consultation                          hydrocarbon sector do not
and system for information                            arise which alter
sharing;                                              stakeholders' support of the
4. Assessment regarding the                          consultation and
replicability of project                              collaboration process or can
activities in other countries                         be successfully mitigated;
in the region carried out;                            4. The regulations which oil
companies are expected to
followv are consistent with
internationally recognized
good environmental and
social practices.



19
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project Reports:          (from Outputs to
component:                                                                    Objective)
1. Institutional
Strengthening
1.1 Technical assistance in   1.1. I Regulation and  1. UCSP implementation   1. Course corrections
regulation and mitigation of  mitigation requirements are  progress reports (quarterly);  undertaken during project
social and environmental  developed and fully       external independent      implementation, when
impacts;                  implemented by December   reviewer evaluation reports  required.
2001;                    (annual); CCTI and CTR
1.1.2 Oil companies      reports; stakeholder       2. Government/civil society
increased quality         workshops; IDA supervision  relationship maintain a
compliance with EIA       missions.                 spirit of dialogue and
standards by Dec. 2002;                             partnership.
1.2.Training of government
agency staflf civil society  1.2. VMEH, CCTL CTR                              3. Government agencies
institutions, locally affected   and other stakeholders                       collaborate on and support
communities and local    reach agreement on the                               compatibilization of
consultants in social and  content and methodology of                         regulations and respective
environmental regulation    the training program by                           roles.
and mitigation areas;     December 2000.
4. Agreement reached
1.3. Inter-institutional  1.3.1. CCTI and CTR meet                            between stakeholders on
meetings and coordination;   with adequate                                    sustainability mechanism.
representation on a regular
1.4 Stakeholder workshops  basis and provide
are carried out with      collaborative technical
governmental agency staff,   feedback on TORs, study
civil society institutions and  results and findings,
local consultants to define    training, and regulation and
content and methodology of  mitigation activities, etc.
training, studies, including
their results, and the like.    1.4 Stakeholder feedback is
incorporated into training,
studies and the like.



20
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project Reports:          (from Outputs to
component:                                                                     Objective)
2.Logistics and           2. Portable laboratory,    2. UCSP implementation
Communication             computing, communication   progress reports (quarterly);
Acquisition of necessary  equipment and transport    external independent
equipment to establish    logistics as well as       reviewer evaluation reports
satellite UtA office in   information system in place  (annual); CCTI and CTR
Santa Cruz (Vehicles,     within 6 months of project   reports; IDA supervision
Portable laboratory systems,  effectiveness,         missions;
Computers, etc.) and
implementation of
information system.
3.Information Baseline    3.1 CCTI, CTRs and other   3. Implementation progress
and Studies               stakeholders provide      reports (quarterly); external
Proposed studies carried out  recommendations on terms   independent reviewer
(See next section for     of reference and results of    evaluation reports (annual),
details).                 studies and they are       CCTI and CTR reports; IDA
adequately incorporated and  supervision missions.
agreed upon;
3.2 Key results of studies
are disseminated and
discussed among
stakeholders;
3.3 3 participatory case
studies are carried out by
the end of 2001.
4.Administration,         4. UCSP, IDA staff and     4. UCSP implementation
Coordination and          independent annual         progress reports (quarterly);
Monitoring                reviewers submit timely   financial audit reports;
monitoring reports on     independent reviewer
quality of monitoring of  evaluation reports (annual),
Effective implementation,    Project activities and quality  IDA supervision missions.
coordination and monitoring  of financial management of
of the administrative     the Project.
aspects of the Project
implementation.



21
Project Components/        Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)4                                           Outputs)
1.Institutional
Strengthening:             1.  US$ 2.6 million
1.1 Technical assistance in   1.1 (US$1.3 million)    Progress Reports           Stakeholders willing to
regulation, monitoring and                            (quarterly);               enter into consultation and
mitigation of social and                                                         collaboration with the
environmental impacts;                                Disbursement reports       government agencies.
1.2.Training of government   1.2 (US$ 0.8 million)    (quarterly).
agency staff, civil society                                                     Indigenous and non-
institutions and local                                                           indigenous people
consultants;                                                                     communities' decision-
1.3. Inter-institutional   1.3 (US$0.3 million)                                  making process working.
meetings;
1.4 Stakeholder workshops.  1.4 (US$ 0.2 million)                                Low turnover rate of trained
2.Logistics and           2.  US$ 0.3 million                                    stakeholders.
Communicationsteodrs
Acquisition of necessary
equipment to establish                                                           Results of the process are
satellite UMA office and                                                        institutionalized.
disseminate information.
The GOB does support a
3.Information Baseline     3. US$ 1.7 million                                    sustainable financing
and Studies                                                                      mechanism for continued
3.1 Sstainable financi     3.1 (US$ 0.14 million)                                social and environmental
mechanisms;                3.2 (US$0.12 million)                                 management of hydrocarbon
3.2 Information,setr
Consultation and           3.3 (US$ 0.I million)
Participation Strategy;
3.3 Compatibilization study
of regulations, procedures    3.4 -(US$ 0.3 million)
roles and fuunctions;
3.4 Social and
environmental impacts,     3.5 (US$ 0.17 million)
strategies and mechanisms;
3.5 Improved social and
environmental practices of   3.6 (US$ 0.46 million)
oil companies;             37(S   .2mlin
3.6 Specific case studies;  3.7 (US$ 0.12 million)
3.7 Contingency Plan       3.8 (US$ 0.13 million)
Assessment;                38(S  .3mlin
collection;                3.9 (US$ 0.15 million)
3.9 Other studies.
4.Administration and       4. US$ 1.2 million
Monitoring
Effective implementation,
coordination and monitoring
of the administrative
aspects of the Project
implementation.          _



22
Annex la: Project Design Summary
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Performance Indicators5
Key performance indicators forn part of Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and are divided into
two groups: (i) performance indicators, related to on-site evaluation and monitoring carried out by the
UMA; and (ii) implementation indicators, which assess implementation of key project activities involving
all stakeholders.
Group 1: Environmental Monitoring Performance Indicators
Performance Indicators                          PERFORMANCE ]BENCHMARKS
Baseline      2001         2002         2003
1. UMA Presence in the Field
I a. Percentage of Category I projects     20%          100%         100%        100%
visited
lb. Percentage of Category II projects     5%           80%          100%        100%
visited                                                                 .
I c. Percentage of Category III projects   N/A          80%          1 00%       100%
visited
Id. Complaints attended                    N/A          100%         100%        100%
le. Projects visited prior to granting of  N/A          30%          60%         100%
Environmental License       _         l         _
2. Control of compliance by UMA
2a. Percentage of mitigation measures      N/A -   l                             95%
implemented        _
2b. Percentage of mitigation measures      N/A      _                     -       95%
observed that require corrections or
modifications
2c. Percentage of mitigation measure       N/A            *            *          95%
corrected or modified.                                  _
2d. Percentage of additional mitigation    N/A            *            *          95%
measures required
2e. Percentage of additional mitigation    N/A                                    95%
measures applied
2f. Percentage of additional mitigation    N/A            *            *          95%
measures applied by oil companies
3. On-site control of environmental        N/A            *            *           *
impacts
4. Environmental Quality
4a. Environmental quality compliance with  N/A          30%          60%Xo       100%
EIA standards                                       .
*To be defined by baseline study to be completed by December 2000. The baseline study and the supervision of
project implementation will allow to adjust and simplify project performance indicators, if necessary.
All performance indicators will be subject to annual external review by independent reviewer.



23
Complementary Provisions
1.    Source and methodology: The source of all indicators is the following:
Indicator 1 is verified by UMA records and on-site evaluation and monitoring visits based on information
provided through a standardized detailed monitoring form to be finalized by December 2000 and
included as an annex to the PIP.
Indicator 2 is verified through on-site regulation and control visits to a sample of projects to determine
compliance with environmental standards established in the EIA or Enviromnental License (EL),
specifically the agreed upon mitigation measures.
Indicator 3 is the control by UMA of impacts not identified in the EIA or EL.
Indicator 4 is the environmental quality compliance with established EIA standards.
All environmental monitoring performance indicators are based on the results of laboratory results and field
visits. In order to determine the sample size for the evaluation of each indicator, information regarding the
number of hydrocarbon projects by category was compiled into the following table.
Documentation evaluated 1997- 2000
Envirorunental Fichv               54 |119                  981          55 |       326|
EIA (CategoryI1)        r3 l3                                6            4 |         16
EIA (Category II)                 3 1          53           33           26          143
PASA (Category HI)                  6          41           29           17          93
Environmental Manifiesto            3          33           49           16          101
Monitoring Reorts                  65         301          227          138          731
TO"CAL, - -   - -;                1621        550]         442          256         1410
(1) Through 27 of March, 2000
The defnition of Categories according to Article 15 of the Law of Prevention and Environmental Control is
as follows:
Category I.   Integrated Environmental Impact Assessment; according to the incidence of effects on the
ecosystem the study should include detailed analysis of all environmental, biological, physical,
socio-economic, cultural, and legal factors with respect to each of its environmental components.
Category II:   Specific Enviromnental Impact Assessment; according to the incidence of effects on the
some aspects of the ecosystem, the study should include detailed analysis of one or all
environmental factors, as relevant.
Category III: Requires only Mitigation Measures and Environmental Monitoring Action Plan; according
to the incidence of effects previously studied and identified in projects, projects include works or
activities that permit the definition of precise actions to prevent and mitigate adverse impacts.



24
2.     Definitions of Indicators:
Indicator 1:   Presence of UMA in Field Monitoring
la.    Percentage of Category I projects visited.
Numerator:   Number of Category I projects inspected
Denominator: 100% of Category I projects
lb.   Percentage of Category II projects visited.
Numerator:   Number of Category II projects inspected
Denominator: (30% of new Category II projects) + (20% of existing Category II
projects)
lc.    Percentage of Category Im projects visited.
Numerator:   Number of Category III projects inspected
Denominator: (20% of new Category II projects) + (10% of existing Category II
projects)
id.    Complaints attended.
Numerator:   Number of complaints attended6
Denominator: 100% of complaints received
le.   Projects visited prior to granting of Environmental License.
Numerator:   Number of projects visited prior to granting of Environmental License
Denominator: Total number of new Category I projects
Indicator 2:   Control of compliance by UMA.
2a.    Percentage of mitigation measures implemented.
Numerator:   Number of mitigation measures implemented
Denominator: Number of mitigation measures proposed in the EIA
2b.   Percentage of mitigation measures observed requiring correction or modification.
Numerator:   Number of mitigation measures observed requiring modification
Denominator: Number of mitigation measures proposed in the EIA
2c.    Percentage of mitigation measures corrected or modified.
Numerator:   Number of additional mitigation measures correcited or modified
Denominator: Number of additional mitigation measures observed
2d.   Percentage of additional mitigation measures required.7
Numerator:   Number of additional mitigation measures required
Denominator: Number of mitigation measures initially proposed in EIA
2e.    Percentage of additional mitigation measures applied.
Numerator:   Number of additional mitigation measures applied
Denominator: Number of mitigation measures proposed in EIA
2f.    Percentage of additional mitigation measures applied by the oil companies.
Numerator:   Number of additional mitigation measures applied by oil companies
Denominator: Number of mitigation measures proposed in EIA + Number of required
mitigation measures
6 Complaints may be attended through an on-site visit or through other means of verification in which the
justification for not conducting an on-site visit is presented.
" To assess the efficiency of the UMA in prevention.



25
Indicator 3:   On-site control of environmental impacts
Numerator:   Number of projects in which the UMA has evaluated and controlled for
quantifiable environmental impacts8
Denominator: Total number of projects visited
Indicator 4:   Environmental Quality
4a.   Environmental quality compliance with EIA standards.
Numerator:   Number of projects in abandonment or restoration phase in compliance
with EIA standards
Denominator: Total number of projects in abandonment or restoration phase
8 The quantifiable environmental impacts are those subject to measurement, such as soil contamination, hectares of
deforestation, and water quality.



26
Grou  2: Im  lementation Indicators
Performance Indicators                            PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Baseline      2001         ,2002         2003
2000
1. Compliance by oil companies with Best     N/A           **           **           **
Practices
2. Dissemination by the UMA of               N/A          100%         100%         100%
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) by
the UMA through a website9 and LaPaz and
Santa Cruz offices.
3. Satisfactory participation of concerned    30           90           90           30
central government agency staff '°in training
program.
4. Satisfactory participation of concerned    15           40           20           N/A
central government agency staff in stakeholder
workshops.
5. Satisfactory participation of civil society  N/A        120          90           90
representatives in training program.
6. Satisfactory participation of civil society  12         32           16          N/A
representatives in stakeholder workshops.
7. Effective participation CCTI members in:
(a) CCTI                                      40           80           40
(b) Regional Workshops                        40          280           80           N/A
(b) National Workshops                        70           105          105
8. CCTI and CTRs provide technical support to  N/A
project implementation
9. Preparation of a proposed framework to    N/A          100%         100%         100%
make compatible roles and regulations for                Step I       Step 2        Step 3
improved social and environmental
management of the hydrocarbon sector.
10. Preparation of a proposed mechanism for  N/A         100%          100%         100%
financial and institutional sustainability of            Step 1       Step 2        Step 3
hydrocarbon sector social and environmental
management.
11. Number of stakeholder workshops           3            9             5          N/A
12. Completion and discussion of participatory  1          2            3             1
case studies.
**As a result of the Best Practice Study the manuals including detailed checklists., methods and instruments
for control of best practice by oil companies will be developed during 2000-2001 and applied during 2002-
2003.
***To be defned as part of the internal operating procedure to be established by the CCTI and CTRs.
9 The executive summary of the EIA would be made available through the UMA website to be developed within the
first 6 months of the project. A hard copy of the full EIA would continue to be available in the UMA and through
the Santa Cruz office. The modes of availability are subject to change through the course of the project based on
the results of the consultation process and studies.
10 Concerned government agency staff refers to representatives of the VMEH VMMARNDF, VAIPO, VMPPSP,
and SERNAP.



27
Complementarv Provisions
1.    Source and methodologv: The source of all indicators is the following:
Indicator 1 is verified through on-site regulation and mitigation visits and analyses to a sample of
projects as identified in the first set of performance indicators and carried out by the UMA.
Best practices means the principal design and operational practices in order to minimize
social and environment impacts of oil exploration, production and transport, as defined
through international professional advice and agreed upon with oil companies operating in
Bolivia. Guidelines and best practice checklist will be developed through a study to be
completed by March 2001.
Indicator 2 as reported by UMA and verified by annual external review.
Indicator 3 - 6 is the cumulative number of actual participants, as per the records of the UCSP, in
the training program to be designed by consensus with UMA, the CCTI and other civil
society representatives throughout the course of the project. As the program has not yet
been defined, the numbers will be redefined following revisions of the PIP.
Indicator 7 is the participation in the CCTI and CTRs as per the records of the CCTI and UCSP.
Indicator 8 will be defined by the CCTI and CTRs and verified through CCTI, CTR and UCSP
reports.
Indicator 9-10 will be verified through quarterly reports by UCSP and annual external reviews.
Indicator 11 is the cumulative number of actual participants, as per the records of the UCSP, in
the stakeholder workshops to be determined by consensus with UMA, CCTI and CTR throughout
the course of the project.
Indicator 12 is the number of participatory case studies, as proposed under Component 3, carried
out with results disseminated to stakeholders each yea to be verified through quarterly
implementation reports by the UCSP and assessed by the annual external review.
2.    Definitions of Indicators:
Indicator 1:  Oil company projects complying with Best Practices.
Numerator:   Number of sampled oil company projects complying with Best Practice
Denominator: Total sample number of projects
Indicator 2:  Dissemination of ELAs by the UMA:
Numerator:   No. of EIAs made available to the public
Denominator: No. of ElAs received by the UMA



28
Indicator 8:   Preparation of a proposed firamework to establish compatibilized law(s), regulation(s)
and/or institutional coordination for environmental and social regulation and mitigation of
hydrocarbon activities:
Step 1: Terns of reference for the analysis of existing regulations approved with analysis
by the CCTI and study initiated.
Step 2: Study completed and discussion conducted between UMA, the CCTI, and through
regional stakeholder workshops on draft law(s), regulation(s) and/or institutional
framework.
Step 3: Submit for consideration and possible enactment draft proposal(s) stemming from
Step 2.
Indicator 9:  Preparation of a proposed framework to establish a sustainable financial and
institutional mechanism:
Step 1: Terms of reference for the analysis approved with analysis by the CCTI and study
initiated.
Step 2: Study completed and discussion conducted between UMA, the CCTI, and through
regional stakeholder workshops on mechanism for sustainable institutional and
fnancing mechanism for regulation and mitigation of hyclrocarbon activities.
Step 3: Submit for consideration and possible enactment draft proposal stemming from
Step 2.
3.     Adjustment to Baseline Data: The Performance Benchmarks are calculated on the basis of
baseline data which was estimated at the time of negotiations. The results of studies, such as that of best
practices, environmental monitoring mechanisms and procedures and the IDB-fnanced sectoral study, will
indicate the need to adjust the baseline after the first year. Therefore, if at a future date the Borrower
shows to the satisfaction of the Association that it is necessary to adjust the baseline data, the
corresponding Performance Benchmarks may be adjusted in such a manner as sha[l be acceptable to the
Association. In addition, the performance benchmnark indicators will be reviewed with the Borrower and
the Association during the annual reviews.
4.    Monitorine Standards: Hydrocarbon sector projects require on-site control of the
implementation of mitigation measures and environmental management, as well as to evaluate highly
sensitive ecological and social areas. While detailed procedures and guides for monitoring, including
standardized forms, will de designed as a result of project studies, the following standards have been
outlined:
i  Environmental management control carried out by companies.
>  Verification of the implementation of the mitigation measures proposed in Category I, II and II
projects.
> Evaluation of the sufficiency and efficiency of implemented measures.
> Identification of potential impacts not identified in EIAs or ELs.
)  Suggest improvements or changes in oil company practices or in mitigation measures.
>  In the case that inconsistencies or overlaps in the law are observed, suggest a Competent
Environmental Authority.
> Verification of an adequate relationship between oil companies and local actors.
>  Development through the UMA in Santa Cruz of a relationship with local actors.



29
Annex 2: Project Description
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
By Component:
Project Description
The Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project, with a
total estimated cost of US$ 5.8 million over a three year period, seeks to improve the social and
environmental management of the hydrocarbon sector and consists of the following components :(i)
Institutional Strengthening, (ii) Logistics, (iii) Information Base and Studies, and (iv) Administration,
Coordination and Monitoring. IDA financing amounts to US$ 4.8 million or 83% of total costs. In
addition to the agreements reached during ongoing dialogue with government agencies and civil society
representatives, several consultant studies"1 funded under the CIDA/ESMAP program and another'2 being
funded by IDB credit 598 have provided important input in the definition of the following components.
Project Component 1 -US$2.6 million - Institutional Strengthening
1.1    Technical assistance for the regulation and mitigzation of social and environmental
impacts of hydrocarbon activities (US$ 1.3 million) entails contracting specialized consultants
(Environmentalist, Social Scientist, Anthropologist, Ecologist, Petroleum Engineer, Agronomist, etc.) in the
UMA in La Paz and Santa Cruz de la Sierra (Red de Monitoreo) to ensure adequate prevention, regulation
and mitigation and in accordance with current regulations with Terms of Reference (TORs) agreed upon
with IDA.
1.2    Training of government agencies staff civil societv organizations. locally affected
communities and local consultants (US$ 0.8 million) consists of tailoring and testing training programs for
participants of different levels of knowledge and experience in social and environmental areas, focusing
primarily on the aspects of regulation and mitigation. While a tentative training plan and budget have been
developed, specific training programs will be designed and planned with the inputs from the Consejo de
Coordinaci6n Tccnico Interinstitutional (Inter-institutional Technical Coordinating Council - CCTI) in
consultation with the Consejos Tecnicos Regionales (Regional Technical Councils - CTR) and local
participants. Programs will be tailored to specific audiences (experts from the industry and government
agencies, civil society institutions (green NGOs), indigenous and non-indigenous communities and local
consultants). All relevant stakeholders will provide their input into these programs (training scope, content,
and methodology) and assess the success of these programs. As required, the training programs could be
modified to better address concerns of stakeholders as they arise. The system of councils and workshops as
mentioned below would be used to obtain input from stakeholders to better tailor the training programs.
1.3     Inter-institutional Coordination (US$ 0.3 million) consists of establishing the CCTI and
CTRs (See Para. 3 on main text) and implementing a series of workshops and seminars to facilitate the
consultation and participation process in several areas: (i) the compatibilization of regulations and
operational procedures; (ii) the definition of mechanisms for consultation and collaboration on specific
social and environmental impact mitigation plans; (iii) the definition of an accessible, transparent and
11 Establishmhent of a Field Operations Group -Bolivia National Secretariat of Energy Environmental Unit. Alconsult.
December 1997
Bolivian Environmental Approval process for New Hydrocarbon Projects-Review and Recommendations -E2 Environmental
Alliance Inc-December 1998
The Disposal of Drilling Fluid Wastes- Alconsult- July 30, 1998
12 Plan Acci6n Ambiental Sector Hidrocarburos -Terminos de Referencia- Study funded by IDB Credit 598.



30
timely information system; (iv) the definition of the content and requirements for the training process; and
(v) the development of sustainable financing mechanisms for carrying out regulation and mitigation.
1.4     Consultation Workshops with Stakeholders (US$ 0.2 million) consists of workshops that
will be carried out, under terms agreed upon by CCTI and CTRs in consultation vvith other stakeholders
for: (i) consultation, feedback and collaboration on the specific studies, on their objectives, findings and
recommendations; (ii) planning, review and testing of processes to integrate stakeholders in decision-
making and regulation and mitigation activities; and (iii) on other matters as determined necessary by
consensus of CCTI and CTRs.
Project Component 2 - US$0.3 million - Logistics and Communication
This component consists of the acquisition of essential equipment (vehicles, portable laboratories,
computers, etc.) to facilitate the on-site regulation and mitigation work of government agencies,
contributing to information sharing among all stakeholders. In addition, an information system/web-site will
be implemented. This system will make use of the information base being developed under IDB credit 598
within the framework of the study Plan de Accion Ambiental Sector Hidrocarburos being carried under
the supervision of the UMA of VMEH and complement the management information system being
completed by consultants for the VMEH under a Japanese Grant Fund.
Project Component 3 - US$1.7 million - Information Baseline and Studies
This component forms a critical input to the institutional strengthening component and consists of
various studies. The project studies include: (i) analysis and development of a mechanism for the
sustainable financing of an improved social and environmental regulatory framework; (ii) analysis and
development of a strategy for the dissemination of public information and systematic mechanisms for
consultation and participation; (iii) analysis and development of proposal for compatibilized regulations,
procedures, roles and functions; (iv) analysis and design of strategies, mechanisms, manuals and
procedures for social and environmental regulation and mitigation; (v) analysis of social and environmental
practices of oil companies and development of best practice guidelines; (vi) carrying out of 7 specific case
studies, to be carried out by independent reviewers with participation from diverse actors involved in the
sector that are based on present and past experiences in the hydrocarbon sector to identify social and
environmental impacts and assess regulatory response; and (vii) assessment of hydrocarbon sector
contingency plans.
Project Component 4 - US$1.2 million - Administration, Coordination and Monitoring
This component provides for: (i) the creation of an Unidad de Coordinaci6n y Seguimiento del
Proyecto (Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit - UCSP) responsible for the coordination and
monitoring of the administrative progress of the project, (ii) external consultants which, in addition to
stakeholders, will provide an independent annual evaluation of progress achieved in relation to verifiable
performance indicators; and, (iii) external audits.



31
Annex 2a: Project Implementation Summary
(See PIP for more details)
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening
1. 1 Technical Assistance to UMA
1.2 Training
1.3 Interinsitutional Coordination (CCTI)
1.4 Stakeholder Workshops
Component 2: Logistics and Communication
1.1 Acquisition of equipment & information dissemination
Component 3: Studies
1.1 Soc & Env Impacts, Mechanisms and Strategies
1.2 Information, Consultation & Participation Strategy
1.3 Assessment of Contingency Plans
1.4 Compatibilization of Roles & Regs
1.5 Institutional & Financial Sustainability
1.6 Oil Company Best Practice Study
1.7 Regional Inforration Use & Collection
1.8 Case Studies
Component 4: Administration & Coordination
1.1 Project Coordination & Administration
1.2 Extemal Evaluations                           ___11_11



32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                              US$ million
Institutional Strengthening                          2.17           0.21           2.38
Logistics and Communication                          0.29            0             0.29
Information Base and Studies                         0.58           0.95           1.53
Coordination and Monitoring                          0.99           0.11           1.10
Total Baseline Cost                                  4.03           1.27           5.30
Physical Contingencies                            0.19           0.06           0.25
Price Contingencies                               0.19           0.06           0.25
Total Project Costs                                  4.41           1.39           5.80
Total Financing Required                             4.41           1.39           5.80



33
Annex 4: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project                   3                    10
(months)
First IDA mission (identification)              05/21/1999           05/21/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     09/12/1999           09/28/1999
Negotiations                                    09/20/1999           05/11/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/02/2000           08/31/2000
Prepared by: Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
Preparation assistance: PPF
IDA staff who worked on the project included:
--  Name  -             .i_                      t
Philippe Durand                            Energy Specialist
Chakib Khelil                              Petroleum Advisor
Juan David Quintero                        Environmental Engineer
Estanislao Gacitua Mario                   Social Scientist
George Ledec                               Ecologist
Lee Anne Adams                             Operations Analyst
Rosa Maria Balcazar                        Civil Society Specialist
Hannachi Morsli                            Procurement Specialist
Olga Bagci                                 Procurement Assistant
Xiomara Morel                              Financial Management Specialist/
.___   Disbursement Officer
Paul Edwin Sisk                            Financial Management Specialist
Daria Goldstein and David Varela           Legal Counsels



34
Annex 5: Inter-Institutional Organizational Structure
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
FLEXIBLE COMPONENTS
Objective                                                                     rhe Prol-CSe reld  C JonSboneW n.e.t 8eR thoe Whiinh Support th
.tipat.   f    Oolsiesty as .ell as goverm-nt actors Er,
The development objective of the Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building                                efer  to:  Conwponenl  N.1  Instiotional  Strengthening
Project is toimprove the social and environmental management ofthe hydrocarbon sector exploration, production                            Ebcorponent  1      T2 rTrning);  SubSEroronent  1i
and transport activities.                                                      aUkehoer U       morksthop): Cononend N.3  Infonnation
VMEH                                                                                            INTER-INSTITUTIONAL COORDINATING COUNCIL (C.C.T.I.)
REPRESENTATIVES FROM GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
CIVIL SOCIETY REPRESENTATIVES
UCSP                                          VMMA I VAIPO I VMEH  I SERNAP | VMPEPP   CIDOB I NGOS I CBH  I  ACAD                                                                                                             OTHER
WORKSHOPS WITH CIVIL SOCIETY AND
GOVERNMENT                                                    _            REGIONAL TECHNICAL COUNCILS (CTR):
_                             ~~~~~C.G.A.P.
OBJECTIVES OF C.C.T.I.                                                                        FUNCTIONS OF C.C.T.I.                                                              OBJECTIVES OF C.T.R.
ESTABUSHA SPACE FOR TECOCAL DISCLSnoo ANALYSIS AM EXCHANGE TERAININ PROPOSES TorGr                   CoNMBrE TO THE PROJECTTHROUGHC TECHNALECI EXCAGE IN THE FEtrLE COPONENTES                   PERMITTHE CONSLaTAT1ONAND PARTICIPATION OF THE DIFFERENT REOIAOL ACTORS I
OSSEwNATOO ff INFORMIATON PRDCErALRES FOR CNSULITATONAND PART,OPATtO  THE SCOPEJOFTSOS AND rSLTO      PROPOSE AND ESTABUSO CTER AFOR PROCSSES OF CONSULTATIONAND PAOJnCIPATTOO                   THE FRANfOKf OF THE PROJECT
OF STLTES.                                                                                            CCroNIRSr TO THnE COORDNTION AND COWACNATION WITH CnOWUNTY atSt O13ANIZATIONS As           PR0aE FEESDBACK TO THE een.
ECNTRBUIE THFRLOH TtE PARnCIPATION OF CIVAL SOCIETY, T TE FEVELOPIIENT OF POUCY PROPOSALS AND        FreouED                                                                                     DEVELOP ECHIRSIfS FOR lOFfAnoN FEErBACK
SiTEGES FOR THE SEVELOPEWT OFP WIOLOQESAND PROCEDURES FELATED 0 THE SOCIAL ND  EREAL                  COOSAJNAlSAND pRnrnE PaFOL  UFP lOtE PROJECT OJECIVES, TOORSAND STUDIEs                    PARTICIPATE TOOI TECICAL SOLPORT TO THE FULEMBLE PROJECT COWFONENTS
GENIENT OFTn1E Hf FCON SECTOR                                                                        CONCRUTE 10 THE DESSGF IER'LOENTAT1DN APD FUSION OF TRAIrNNG PRDGRAMS AND PORUC             STUIiES. INFORTAnaNANDCOSUOCA1noN. TRmARw
CONTR rfnETECENCAL FEEDBACK IN n1E MEM ANID IMENTATION OF SYSTEWS FOR TOE EVALLIATION AND             INFORRANO                                                                                  FACILUTATE THE CONI.NCATONNAND COORDINATOrN OF COMAHNTY RBASED
IVIDNTORING.OF TOE SOCIAL ND ErRONM.ENrAL IMPACTS RESULTING FROM hYDROCARBON SECTOR ACTVNTIES.       FACIUTATE TOE PARTICIPATIONRANID INCORPORATIONROF LOGAL. ACTORS IN TOE IWLEOEOA1ION OF TO    ROOCAE   IN TOE PRS ROF TOE PROJECT.
FACIUTATE TE EFFECTIVE PARTtCPATION OF tTAEERE  IN MONTORNw-  ACTIATIES WITN THE EXSTMJ               P_OOoit DE VLOFANG OECIWJsAW FOR SYSTENIATIC FEEDeACK.
S^EPPORT O  EIMO  REIO POTRPTO5AT PEIRITTO1E SIT3ESOTTEINN Off HUVAN AND TECErdAL CAPACITY INtnE      WOEN FECESOAJOT IImIE FTHER FEEVAiJTI.EMAEE  OF CIVL SOCETf WHDARE hDT OUECThT INWOLVEDRGO ALTC NC L                                 O NIS
SLPPORT~EDEIIOFTFWNGPROGRMIH~TPFMTTHE ~ WOFFM ANDMCM CAPACIYIN~E  N=  mm.REGIONAL TECHNICAL COUNCILS:
MOINlONIIS OF SOCIAL AND ENIATONI&NTAL IEACT                                                          PROADE TECMICAL SLEPOKRTIN TOE FOFAATIORAN OPERATION OF TOE CTRS
ESTAOUSIHSTATEGEsFR STAKEHOLDER CONULTATIONAND PARTIPATIONIN TE JAELEIEWATAION OFTHE PROJECT          TDERATE1YROTO  TOETCCnEETOTACCC           WTOAN(NTER ALRIWETOEOEFIEDO LOTHE                          ENTITIES FOR LOCAL CONSULTATION
COIJETH TE EFFECTVEANDOPORTUNE COWOINATION OF TOE PROJECTIRTOE FLE)USLE COWOEWIRS.              FIRSTWEETNGJOFZTO-t CCnTI
ReAnEW TOE SCOPE ND CONTEStS OF THE FLEXBLE COONECNEOS OF TOE PROJECT.                                                                                                                                                FUNCTIONS
PARTICIPATE IN TOE PROJECT BY PROADING OPINONS AND CONAMETS WITH REG
TT07EREXLIBSLE CONPONENTS OF TOE PROJECT.
n COLLABORATE IN TOEIR RESPECT    REo  GAATOERNG OPfIONS AND COI,ENT
WITH FEAGOO TO TIE PROJECT
FUNCTIONS OF THE REPRESENTATIVES OF CCTI                                            FACILITATE THE PARDCPATOO  OF DIFFERENT  STAKEHOLORS IN NTIO
WORKSHOPS.
COORONRD    fTIn1E PROJECTACIFATES EN TEIR ESPEOTRE VCE SMNSW OR INSTTJION I ARE           SUPPORT E DEVELCPENT OF PROJECT STOIESE
OF TOEIR CONEETErEE TO "EPORTTFIE ADPANISTRATtORN AI FAUTA1E THE EXECLIMOFS THiE PROJECT.  COLLASORTE IN11 THEGiERATOOR OF AN ACTRE PARTICIPATION OF EGWIoNL ACTO
RESPONSBLE, WHEN NECESOAS. FOR TOE ACTIMTIES DEVELOPED INIS NING. AN  PARTICIPATO AD N      NSLFPOR  1T THE PROJECTOfJECTAVES.
CONsLTATON PROCESSES. FR HEIR ESPECTVE vCE AIISTOES O  INTlUJttO  IN TOE FSPOEWf           PROPOSE INSTTOLENTS ANC  MEFOROLOaiES DESTINED TO CONTRBAuE W TH
OF TOE PRaJECT                                                                             IAERENENTf SOCIALAND ENIROIIENTAL SNIOITCHM IN TiE SECTOR
RESPOFNSBLE TO PROADE SLPPORT AND TOCICAL CORET TO TOE LOOP AN  WEt IN TOE AREA OF         PROPOSE STRATEGES FOR CONSULTATIOO  ANC PAWnCIPATON IN TOE SOCIAL AN
THEIR COWRETSENE UOOP C ShEA WIICH VVtL WOFO  TOE QUARTERLY REPORTS TO BE ElAVSOFATEDOI     EOMRONNIEWALAOSESNI.ENT OF SECTOR PROJECTOS
TO DIRECTOR f TOE UCSP AS REQAFED ET TOE BANK ACCOffNG TO THE CREDITAWOENW                 SULPPCRT THE ULSP N GENE_AL CCORIAoNTORANCD)FMATION FLCbYS
SLPPORT7TOE LOCP IN TOE PLO ANCD IFFUSION OF PROJECT INFffYAIION IN TOEIOR RESPECTIE ARFA C
CONIEISE



35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Procurement
1.    Procurement Responsibility. The project implementation will require procurement of a limited
quantity of goods (about 8% of the project's total cost) but significant technical assistance services for
studies and other consultant assignments. VMEH' s UCSP, the project's coordinating and monitoring unit,
will be responsible for the overall project procurement activity, including compliance with procedures and
timetables agreed with IDA. UCSP has already been staffed with a consultant manager with extensive
experience in contract administration of IDA-financed projects.
2.     The UCSP' s manager has organized a procurement team consisting of two staff that were selected
from the two recently completed IDA financed projects. The team is in place and is familiar with IDA' s
procurement guidelines, and it has been provided with clear working instructions closely reflecting IDA' s
procedures and outlining all procedural aspects of procurement under the project. The working instructions
are an integral part of the project's Operational Manual, which was reviewed and finalized during the
Credit's negotiations. In addition, a procurement workshop, involving the procurement team, and
government and non-government agencies associated with the project, will be organized prior to the
Credit's effectiveness. The workshop would focus on IDA' s procurement policy and procedures and their
application to the procurement arrangements planned for project implementation. Furthermore, UCSP' s
management and other selected staff would benefit from attending the first available World Bank Advanced
Procurement of Consulting Services Course.
3.    Procurement Plan. Key instruments for carrying out the project procurement by UCSP are the (i)
detailed procurement plan for the project's goods, including contract packaging, applicable procedures and
process scheduling; (ii) consultant selection process plan for the project's consultant services, including
contract packaging, applicable procedures, shortlists, selection criteria, and so forth; and (iii) a draft
project Operational Manual, including procurement process. These documents were prepared during the
appraisal mission and reviewed and finalized during negotiations. The procurement plan and consultant
selection process plan will be updated periodically, every 6 months, and reviewed by IDA. The plans
include the (i) list of contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in the
upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent semester; (ii) costs of completed and under
execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming contracts; (iii) schedule of bidding; (iv) particular
methods of procurement of goods or selection of consultants; and (v) the draft terms of reference for all
consultant contracts to be recruited during the next 6 months.
4.    Methods for IDA Financed Procurement. IDA financed procurement will be carried out in
accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement and IDA' s Guidelines for Procurement
(published in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) for
supply of goods and IDA' s Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (published in
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999) for technical assistance and other consultant
assignments. IDA' s Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposals will be used for
IDA financed goods consultant services respectively. The project's procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table A.
5.   IDA Financed Goods and Associated Procedures. The proposed project would finance goods for
an estimated total cost of about US$0.25 million and consisting of (i) vehicles (three) to facilitate on site
monitoring and evaluation work; (ii) portable laboratories (about five) for environmental monitoring; (iii)
computer hardware and software (about eleven of which five laptops); (iv) geographic information systems;



36
(v) office equipment and other miscellaneous items required for various consultant services; and (vi)
training materials and public awareness literature and project documents such as l IAs and evaluation
reports to facilitate information sharing of the project's consultation and participatory process.
6.    Given the limited value and type of goods to be procured under the project, no foreign competition is
expected to be attracted by the bidding. No International Competitive Bidding procedure, therefore, has
been contemplated. Based on the project procurement packaging, the most efficient and economical way of
procuring the goods to be financed by the Credit, would be under (i) National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedure acceptable to IDA, for tenders estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; and (ii)
International or National Shopping (ISINS) for tenders estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less. Miscellaneous items in packages costing up to US$50,000 would be procured using local price
comparison with quotations obtained in sealed proposals from at least three qualified suppliers. To the
extent practicable, contracts for goods would be grouped in bid packages estimateid to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more. Foreign bidders will be allowed to participate under NCB.
7.   IDA Financed Consultant Services and Associated Procedures. The proposed project would
finance consultant services and training, workshops and coordination for an estimated total cost of about
US$4.55 million and consisting of (i) institutional strengthening; (ii) coordination and monitoring; and (iii)
specific project related training and workshops. The project training and workshops would involve
government and non-government organization personnel, local communities and indigenous peoples with
the objectives of facilitating their active participation and contribution to achieving the project's objectives.
8.   The project's selection and employment of consultants will be carried out under arrangements
acceptable to IDA (Table Al), using IDA' s Standard Forms and Contracts. Consulting firms would be
recruited for the project's studies, performance evaluation, training, workshops organization, and financial
and procurement audits, under the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method for services costing
the equivalent of US$100,000) or more (for about US$1.50 million of which IDA would finance about
US$1.35 million) or under the Consultants Qualifications (CQ) method for services costing less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 for about US$1.0 million of which IDA would finance about US$0.90 million.
Individual consultants to assist in project administration and coordination, environment monitoring and
prevention, case studies, and training would be recruited under procedures describeid in Chapter V of IDA'
s Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants, (for about US$1.80 million of which IDA
would finance about US$1.55 million). Travel and per diem cost of participation in workshops, training
and coordination meetings will be paid to eligible participants under unit costs defined in the Operational
manual (for about US$0.75 million fmanced in totality by IDA).
9.   Procurement Review. IDA' s procurement review will be in accordance with Appendix 1 of IDA' s
Guidelines for Procurement and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement. Procurement
documents for the first two NCB tenders and the first two IS/NS tenders will be subject to IDA' s prior
review. Subsequent procurement documents for NCB tenders costing the equivalent of less than
US$100,000 per contract, will be subject to IDA' s post review. Subsequent procurement documents for
all IS and NS tenders will be subject to IDA's post review.
10.  With regard to consultant services, prior to issuance of any requests for proposal, a complete plan
for selection of consultants under the project has been prepared by UCSP. The plan was reviewed and
accepted by the appraisal mission and during negotiations and will be updated every six months. IDA' s
review of selection of consultants will be in accordance with Appendix 1 of IDA' s Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreemnent. Consultant
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000, per contract, or more w:ill be subject to IDA' s
prior review. The first two Consultant contracts procured under the Consultant Qualifications (CQ)
method will be subject to IDA's prior review. Subsequent procurement documents under CQ will be



37
subject to IDA' s post review. For employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$3 5,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the
consultants will be provided to IDA for its prior review and the contracts will be awarded only after IDA' s
concurrence. Contracts for individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$35,000,
will be subject to IDA' s post review. Consultant contract documents to be reviewed will include TORs,
shortlists, evaluation reports, contract forms. Draft TORs for all contracts will be reviewed by IDA as part
of the rolling procurement plan. A review process similar to individual consultants, will apply to training
and workshops.
11.  In addition to the regular tasks of prior and ex-post reviews, IDA may also carry out spot checks of
the quality and consistency of its financed procurement work, with the objective of strengthening the
fiduciary responsibilities.
12.  Advertising. A General Procurement Notice for procurement of consultant services was published
in the United Nations Development Business paper (No.524 of December 16, 1999). The Notice will be
updated annually for outstanding consultant services. In addition, detailed consultant services and
assignments will be advertised by UCSP, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper of a
large circulation. Furthermore, UCSP may also advertise some of the project's studies in an international
newspaper or a technical magazine. UCSP may also seek "expressions of interest" by contacting
embassies, professional organizations, or firms that it knows or that are registered in DACON (paragraph
1.15 of IDA' s Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants). In this case, the information
required would be minimum, limited to make ajudgement on the firm's suitability. Sufficient time (not less
than 30 days) will be provided for responses, before preparing the short lists.
13.   Since no ICB procedure would be followed and given the limited value of goods to be procured
under the project, the publication of a General Procurement Notice for goods in the United Nations
Development Business paper, would not be required.
14.  Methods for Non-IDA Financed Procurenent Project procurement not financed by IDA will be
carried out in accordance with the Bolivian's procurement rules and regulations. Procurement
arrangements under parallel financing, if any, would be the responsibility of the borrower and the co-
financiers. However, IDA will ensure that the bidding process is properly coordinated by the borrower to
meet the agreed overall procurement plan and avoid project implementation delays.
15.  Non-IDA Financed Components. Custom duties and taxes (as provided in the General Conditions,
Section 5.08), local dealers' commissions and mark-ups (in accordance with OP 12.00), fuel and other
administrative and operating costs of UCSP and UMA offices in La Paz and Santa Cruz, not associated
with the consultant assignments, would not be financed by the Credit. These costs would be covered by the
government's budget and have been included in the project's total costs. The government's budget would
also fmance a gradually increasing share of the cost of UMA consultants in La Paz and Santa Cruz for
conducting evaluation and monitoring tasks, as established in the Project Implementation Plan (annex on
project costs).
16.  Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods and
consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and procurement
activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by UCSP. These records will be
maintained for at least two years after the project's closing date. The records for goods will include public
notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals
by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and amendments, records on claims and
dispute resolution, and any other useful information. The records for consultant services will include public
notices for expression of interest, request for proposals and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal



38
appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments., records on claimns and
dispute resolution and any other useful information.



39
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                  Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                         (including
ICB      NCB        Other       N.B.F       Contingencies)
1. Goods                                       0.30                   0.10           0.40
(0.25)                                (0.25)
2. Consultant Services                                    5.40                        5.40
and Training                                          (4.55)                      (4.55)
Total                                       0.30       5.40        0.10           5.80
(0.25) -  (4.55)                      (4.80)
Notes: ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Other: includes National and
International Shopping and Consultant selection methods described in Table Al; NBF: Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection and Training Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                             Selection Method                             Total Cost
Category                                                                           (including
_________l_______  _______ ________                                      e_______   contingencies)
___________  QCBS   QBS   SFB  LCS  |C                        Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms              1.50                                  0.40                             1.90
(1.35)                               (0.35)                           (1.70)
B. Individuals                                                       2.10                    2.10
________   ________  _____   ________  _______    (1.55)                (1.55)
C. Training                                                 0.65    0.75                     1.40
l _______    ________    _____    ________   (0.55)  (0.75)              (1.30)
Total       1.50                                  1.05    2.85                     5.40
(1.35)                                (0.90)   (2.30)                  (4.55)
Note. QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS: Quality-Based Selection; SFB: Selection under a Fixed
Budget; LCS: Least-Cost Selection; CQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Other: Selection of
individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), and costs of participation in workshops,
coordination meetings and training; NBF: Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



40
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Procurement item        Contract Value           Procurement   Review
Threshold (US$)          Method
1. Goods                More than $50, 000       NCB             Prior review of first two NCB contracts
irrespective of amount and, subsequently, prior
review for all contracts of more than US$100,000
equivalent.
$50,000 or less         IS /NS           Prior review of first two ISINS contracts.
Post review, random sample, of NCB contracts of
US$100,000 or less and IS/NS contracts other
than the first two.
Aggregate Prior Review (Goods): US$0.2 million
2. Consultants'Services
and trainine         More than $100,000        QCBS           Prior Review of all contracts
2.1 Firins                                               Aggregate Prior Review (QCBS): US$1.5 million
2.1 Firms
$100,000 or less         CQ             Prior review of first two CQ contracts
Aggregate Prior Review (CQ): US$0.2million
Post review, randomrn sample, of CQ contracts other
than the first two.
More than $35,000        IC             Prior Review of each contract estimated to cost
more than $35,000 equivalent.
Aggregate Prior Review (IC): US$1.0 million
$35,000 or less         IC              Post review, random sample, on IC contracts
estimated to cost US$35,000 or less.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$2.9 million (60% of Credit amount)
17.    Procurement Risk Assessment When the project's procurement assessrnent was conducted, there
had been no Country Procurement Review (CPAR) for Bolivia. A key aspect for defining the level of prior
review has been the procurement capacity assessment of UCSP. The assessment involved officials from
VMEH to complete data collection questionnaires about laws and regulations. W'ith regard to UCSP, IDA'
s mission worked only with the unit's manager who was the only UCSP staff that was appointed at the time
of the procurement assessment, collecting data, analyzing procurement performance under the previous
IDA's Credit and reviewing how UCSP' s procurement will be organized. Based on this assessment, and
taken into account that Art. 15 of Bolivia's current procurement law stipulates thaLt the procurement policies
and procedures of the international financiers apply to their respective projects, the project's procurement
risk rating assessment is average.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
18.    Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months, including
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits.



41
19.  ProcurementAudits. UCSP will provide IDA, no later than six months after the end of each year,
procurement records audited by independent procurement experts, acceptable to IDA. The records will be
in accordance with internationally accepted standards.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in SDR             Financing Percentage
1. Goods                              180,000         100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
2. Consultant Services               1,880,000        100%
3. Training and coordination          880,000         100%
4. Refunding of PPF                   350,000
5. Unallocated                        410,000
Total:               3,700,000
20.  Disbursement. The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over the project's implementation
period, from January 2000 to June 2003, plus six months to disburse on outstanding commitments.
Disbursements would be made against the following categories:
- Goods: consisting essentially of (i) vehicles; (ii) computer hardware and software; and (iii)
training materials and public awareness, for which 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local
expenditure would be disbursed;
- Services: consisting essentially of (i) consultant services, including for audits; and (ii) individual
consultants for UMA and UCSP, for which 100% of foreign and local expenditures would be
disbursed; and,
- Training and coordination: consisting essentially of training, workshops and coordination
meetings, for which 1 00% of foreign and local expenditures would be disbursed.
21. Accounting, Financial Reports, and Auditing. For the purposes of carrying out the project a Special
Accounts will be opened and maintained in US Dollars at the Banco Central de Bolivia (Central Bank of
Bolivia) on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Deposits into the Special Account and the
replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocations set out in the Disbursement Letter, will be made initially
on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other
documentation as specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Once the accounting and financial
management systems of the UCSP is deemed compliant with LACI requirements, and is certified as such
by IDA, a migration to a PMR-based type of disbursements may be implemented as described hereafter.
22. The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia conducted a review in the UCSP of the accounting,
controls over disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative
staff. It was determined that the UCSP has in place accounting and internal control systems that accord
with such accounting standards or agreed format and that reliably record and report all assets and liabilities



42
and financial transactions of the project including those transactions involving the use of IDA funds; and
provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
23. Migration to LA CI. It was agreed that by June 30, 2000 the UCSP will complete the action plan for
the strengthening of its financial management system in order to enable the it to prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) which they cannot do at present. Each of these reports would show: (i)
actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both cumulatively and fo,r the period, and projected
sources and applications of funds for the project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately
expenditures financed out of the credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures proposed
to be financed during the following six-month period; (iii) describe physical progress in project
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered, and explain variances between the actual
and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the
project and expenditures under contracts financed from the credit, for the period covered.
24. Financial Audit Arrangements. An independent external auditing firm, satisfactory to IDA, will be
hired by credit effectiveness to carry out annual audits of the project. The Guidelines and Terms of
Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean
Region published May 1999 will used by external auditors, in accordance with existing IDA procedures.
Audit reports would be presented to IDA no later than six months after the closing date of the previous
fiscal year. Six months after effectiveness the external auditors should submit a report to IDA commenting
on the internal controls of the UCSP.



43
Annex 7: Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
Hydrocarbon activities have in the past had significant impacts on many indigenous peoples'
community areas in Bolivia. As a result, indigenous groups have organized themselves for better
protection. Indigenous communities have in some cases successfully influenced the operational regulations
of specific oil companies. Since the passage of the Law of National Service of Agrarian Reform (INRA)
and the Popular Participation Law in 1996, indigenous peoples' community organizations have become
better organized at both the national and regional levels, but they have tended to negotiate with oil
companies on a case by case basis. A lack of a regulatory framework exists to guide their effort and ensure
consistent rules with which companies should comply. At present neither the oil companies nor the
indigenous groups have a clear idea of what is being negotiated (access, right of way, entrance, potential
damages, compensation). Without a system of checks and balances, the process may degenerate creating
more damage to the social and environmental framework, which will be difficult to mitigate later. In
addition, dispersed and uncoordinated compensation activities from oil companies will have little impact on
the long-term economic and social development of these communities.
While the INRA Law also regulates land titling to the benefit of the indigenous peoples'
communities, the latter lack the necessary resources to effect the transactions. Because some of the
hydrocarbon activities take place on lands claimed by indigenous communities or in the process of being
titled to indigenous communities (TCOs or Tierras Comunitarias de Origen), oil companies need to ensure
indigenous communities would not be harmed and reach agreement with them on specific compensation
measures.
Therefore, indigenous peoples will be important players in the Project through meaningful
consultation and active participation in: (1) the evaluation of regulation and mitigation frameworks; (2) the
development of adequate mechanisms for compensation and mitigation; and, (3) in the definition of an
information system, which is both timely and appropriate.
As part of the social and environmental analysis for the Project, several workshops and studies will
be carried out during implementation to: (1) determine mechanisms to ensure that oil companies conduct
meaningful consultation with the indigenous communities (Annex 1 - Study 3.5); (2) determine
mechanisms and frameworks which incorporate the participation of indigenous peoples into sector
regulation and monitoring activities (Annex 1 - Studies 3.2 and 3.3); (3) develop and implement
mechanisms for the identification of potential social impacts to determine their effect/magnitude/severity on
affected populations (Annex 1 -Study 3.4); and (4) incorporate the perspective and experience of
indigenous groups into case studies of sector activities (Annex 1 - Study 3.6). The social and
environmental analyses should specifically seek to identify indigenous or traditional knowledge which can
in turn provide input into project design.
The participation of indigenous peoples' communities in the Project will be crucial to it's success.
For instance, the training sub-component (1.4) will include a specific strategy for the inclusion of
indigenous peoples which is tailored to their capacity needs as identified through the consultation process.
This training will build upon the efforts of the current IDA supported CIDA/ESMAP program, which seeks
to build consensus between national government agencies, oil companies, indigenous peoples' community
organization representatives and non-governmental organizations. This process has led to an agreement on
specific regulations of companies oil operations in indigenous people community areas (Law of
Hydrocarbon Operations in Community Lands of Origin). This regulation, which provides for a process
of meaningful consultation and participation by the indigenous people communities in hydrocarbon sector
project development and implementation, is a result of two years of consultations led by the VMEH and
VAIPO and is currently under final review.



44
Annex 8: Hydrocarbon Sector Regulatory Process for Environmental Licensing
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
T              *| ~~PROJECT PROMOTORl
FA, EEIA, MA, PPM-PASA
Not approved               /\ lvf
4~~~''-         <O~~(SC)
REPORTS
.4 Not approved                  FEC
CATEGOf,S  lAt   
FA: Environmental Ficha
EEIA: Environmental Inpact Assessment
MA: Environmental Manifest
PPM- PASA: Mitigation and Prevention Program - Environmental Monitoring Action Plan
OSC: Competent Sectoral Entity the UMA of the VMEH
AAC: Competent Environmental Authority - VMARNDF
VMEH: Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
UMA: Environmental Management Unit
VMARNDF: Vice Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry Development
Environmental Licenses:
DIA: Declaration of Environmental Impact for Category I and 11
DAA: Declaration of Environmental Adequation for Enviromnental Manifests
CD: Certification of Dispensation for Category HI



45
Annex 9: Documents in the Project File*
Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project
A. Project Implementation Plan and Other Key Project Documents
1.   Project Implementation Plan - Plan de Implementaci6n Proyecto Piloto Aprendizaje e Innovaci6n,
dated May 11, 2000.
2.    Operational Manual, dated May 11, 2000.
3.   Procurement Plan.
B. IDA Staff Assessments
1.   Aide Memoire, April 21, 1999 (LIL identification mission).
2.    Aide Memoire, June 14, 1999 (LIL preparation mission).
3.   Minutes, June 4, 1999. Stakeholder Workshop on the Environmental Management Capacity
Building of the Hydrocarbon Sector.
4.    Aide Memoire, October 14, 1999 (LIL appraisal mission).
5.   Minutes, October 8, 1999. Stakeholder Workshop on the Environmental Management Capacity
Building of the Hydrocarbon Sector.
6.   Back-to-Office Report, Maria Teresa Serra, Results of Environmental Workshops Organized in
Bolivia in April 1999.
7.    Back-to Office Report, Lee Anne Adams, Stakeholder Workshop, December 1999.
8.   Back to Office Report, Eleodoro Mayorga-Alba, Bolivian Energy Sumnmit and ESMAP Indigenous
Training Program, May 2000.
C. Other
1.   Establishment of a Field Operation Group- Bolivia- National Secretariat of Energy -Environmental
Unit-Alconsult-December 1997
2.    Bolivian Environmental Approval Process for New Hydrocarbon Projects-Review and
Recommendations- E2 Environmental Alliance Inc.- December 1998
3.    The Disposal of Drilling Fluid Wastes- Alconsult- July 30, 1998-
4.   Plan de Acci6n Ambiental -Sector Hidrocarburo- Trminos de Referencia- Study Funded by IDB-
Credit 598
*Including electronic files.



46
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
Closed  5
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                     Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                            Supervision Rating bI          Original Amount in US$ Millions      Disbursements a)
Fiscal                                       DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                       Development Implementstion       IBRD         IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Fnn Rev'd
1992    P006180   RD MAINT                         S             S                0         80          0     10.35      8.41       8.5
1993    P006196   INTEGRATED CHILD DEV             S             S                0        50.7        20     14.21     35.31     13.96
1995    P006181    EDUCATION REFORM                S             S                0         40          0     15.65      8.92      4.29
1995    P006197   LAND ADMINISTRATION              S             S                0       20.4          0      2.83     -0.82         0
1996    P006186   ENV.IND.&MINING                  S             S                0         11          0      7.81      5.53      0.25
1996    P006206   RURAL WTR & SANIT                S             S                0         20          0      4.55       3.8      5.36
1998    P055974   BO EL NINO EMERGENCY             S             S                0         25          0     11.47      7.01      1.63
1998    P006204   EDUCATION QUALITY                S             S                0         75          0    59.44      16.64         0
1998    P040110   FIN DECEN &ACCT                  S             S                0         15          0      8.02      0.02         0
1998    P040085   PARTICIP RURAL INV.              S             S                0       62.8          0    47.35      -2.47         0
1998    P057396   REG REFORM TAC                   S             S                0         20          0     16.72      2.45         0
1999    P055230   ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY             S             S                0         88          0       87      13.83        0
1999    P060392   HEALTH REFORM                    S             S                0         25          0      20.6       2.6        0
1999    P062790   INST REF (OLD CIV S)             S             S                0         32          0    30.62         0          0
1999    P057030   REG REFORM ADJ CREDI             S             S                0      41.78          0     19.63      17.7        0



47
BOLIVIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 4/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Ag2roval       Companv        Loan Equity Ouasi Partic Loan Eguitv Ouasi Partic
1976/88/90/91/95/98 BISA             0      2     0      0    0   0.46     0      0
1991 Bermejo            0    5.9     0     0    0   5.03      0     0
1989/92/94/96     COMSUR             3      0  0.84   1.5    3       0  0.84   1.5
1999 Caja Los Andes    1.8     0     0     0   1.8      0     0     0
1991 Central Aguirre   0.28   0.35   0     0 0.28   0.35      0     0
1993 GENEX           0.22      0  0.63     0 0.22       0  0.63     0
1999 Illimani          15      1     0     0    0       0     0     0
1992 IntiRaymi          0      0     5     0    0       0     5     0
1996 Mercantil-BOL    8.57     0     0     0  8.57      0     0     0
0/89              Minera             0    0.4      0     0    0    0.4      0     0
1996 Telecel Bolivia   9.26    0     5 18.52  5.93      0     5 11.85
TotalPortfolio:         38.13   9.65 11.47 20.02  19.8  6.24 11.47 13.35
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Ouasi Partic
2000 COMSURV        10000      0     0     0
1999 Electropaz     25000      0     0     0
1999 PEB            15000      0 15000 30000
Total Pending Commitment:    50000      0 15000 30000



48
Annex 11: Country at a Glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Bolivia   & Carib.  income      Development diamond-
1998
PoDulation. midovear (friilions)                        7.9       502       908                  Life expectancy
GNP oar caita (Atlas method. US$S                    1.000      3.940     1.7t0
GNP (Atlas method. US$ biftbon)                         7.9      1.978     1.567
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Pooulation (%)                                          2.4        1.6       1.1
Laborforce (%)                                          2.6        2.3       1.5     GNP                               Gross
Most recentestimate(latestyear available, 1992-98)                                   per           .                  primary
capita                        -.mt1e-nt
Poverty (% of rooulation behow national oovelv alne)     67
Urban oooulation (% of total Doooulationl               63         75        58
Life expectanac at birth (vears)                        62         70        68
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 lve births)                 67         32        38
Child malnutrition (16 of children under 5J              9          8          -               Access to safe water
Access to sate water f% ofDoDu&lfionl                    60        75        75
Illiterac (v16 of ootsulation ace 15t)                  17         13        14
Gross primarv enrollment (6of school-area oDulhtion)     91       113       103               Botivia
Male                                                  95         -. 105                     Lower-midldle-qn.come group
Female                                                87          ..      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     19S7      1997       1998
Economic ratios
GOP fUSS billierlsl                             ,.      4.3       8.0        8.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    13.5        19.8      20.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..    19.6        22.2      19.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      .                 12.8      10.4
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..       12.9      12.1
Current account balance/GDP                    9..     -.3        -6.9      -7.9                       A
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      1.8        2.2       1.9     Domesc                       Investment
Total debVlGDP                                  ,.   134.2        66.3      62.7     Savings                      I
Total debt service/exports                    23.9     33.5       31.1      34,2                      IIJ
Present value of debt/GOP                       ..       ..       49.6
Present value of deb/exports                    ..        -      264.7
D                                        t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -1.8      4.2      44         4.7       5.7          -Bolivia
GNP per capita                                 1,6      1.4        2.?       3.4                Lower-middle-income grnup
Exports of goods and serwces        -3.8       7.0     -3.7       2.7        9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998     GroWth rates of output anid investment (%)
(16 of GDP)                                                                          40
Agriculture                                     ..    24.7        17.1      15.4
Industry                                        ..       ..       28.4      28.7    20
Manufactung                                   ..        ..      17.0      16.5
Servicesturin                                   ..       ..      154.5      55. 9       °
Pnvate ronsumption                              ..    79.7        73.4      75.6    -20
Genera oovernment consumDtion                   ..    11.1        13.7      14.0               -     GOGOI     ;  GDP
Imports of goods and services                          24.0       29.0      28.9
(average annual growth)                    197747  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and importsa
Agriculture                                     ..       ..         ..              20
Industry                                        ..       ..         ..        ..    1s
Manufacturng                                   .        ..
Services                                        .         .         .
Prvate consumption                             0.3      3.3        473               2
General povemment consumption                 -5.0      3.2        2.4       5.2     r            0     5    00 90
Gross domestic investment                     -2.2      9.5       33.4      19.6    -        3
Importsofgoodsandservices                      IA       6.7       13.3      10.1              -sEps           4mports
Gross national product                          ..      4.0        3.7       5.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.



49
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987        1997      1998      Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                16
Consumer prces                                            '10.7        0.7       4,4    12  .                  ,.
Implicit GDP deflator                               ..    14.6         6.8       7.7      s            ,.
Government finance                                                                        4
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                                       o
Current revenue                                     ..     15.7       21.3      23.0              93    54    95    96    97        9
Current budget balance                              -      -1.4        1.5        1.8               "'BGDP deflator   '*CP
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..      -7.6       -3.3       4.0
TRADE
1977     1987        1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Totalexports(fob)                                  ..      519       1,167      1,104     2900
Tin                                               ..       69         81         66
Zinc                                              ..      256        200        159     2,000
Manufactures                                                         183       195      1,500
Total imports (ci                                  ..      767       1,851      1,983     1,000
Food                                              .         ..       168       198
Fuel and energy                                   .         ..       349       154       50
Capital goods                                                        74        22~ 14               1        1
Exoort Dnce index (1995=100).                                           94        90            92   93   94   95   96   97   ss
Imoort orice index (1995=1C01                                           85        79                  E Exports      *iR Imps
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           ..       ..        111       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US.6 millions)                                 1977      1987        1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                    695       653       1,413     1,355      D7~
Imports of goods and services                    759       920       2,062     2,128
Resource balance                                  -64     -268        -649      -773
Net income                                        -69     -259         -98      -120
Net current transfers                              15      121         199       217
Current account balanoe                          -118      -406       -548      -676      3.
Financing items (net)                             180      365         651       804
Changes in net reserves                           -62       41        -103      -128
Memo:
Reserves indudina aold (US$ miilionsJ               ..     425       1.190     1.193
Conversion rate (DEC. locaiIUS$)              3.OOE-5       2.1        5 3        5.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987        1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                            Cormposition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            1,734    5,636       5,283     5 386
IBRD                                            52       270         41         26                     429   26
IDA                                             57       141        965      1,044                                   1044
Total debt service                                168      223         465       491
ilDRC                                            4        39          24        15
IDA                                              1         2          10        13                                         209
Comrosition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                                  18       133        299
Offcial creditors                              120       151        220        140           1442
Private creditors                              225        18         -29       -29
Foreign direct investment                        -1       36        591        600
Portfolio equity                                 0         0           0         0                                  1775
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                     92        92           0       227      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disburseements                                  25        43        126         66      B- IDA     D- Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             1        20          25        19      C-IMF                          G-Shot-term
Netttovws                                       24        24        101         47
Interest payments                                4        21          12        t0
Net transfers                                   21         2         89         37
Development Economics                                                                                                          9121/99






IBRD 30380
BOLIVIA
CONCESSION AREAS
D:f:m  CONCESSION AREAS                      - -   GEOLOGICAL BASINS:                                          FREE AREAS
RIVERS                                     QMADRE DE DIOS                @ PIE DE MONTE
®    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                         (DBENI                       0  SUBANDINO NORTE
f    NATIONAL CAPITAL                             OCHACO                       0  SUBANDINO SUR
-. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                     0 PANTANAL CHIQUITOS          @ ALTIPLANO
I      /    I                       I_
68°                     6646°                                            620
B R A  Z I L                                                                                           PERU   <  \              BRAZIL
j BOLIVIA  i
s N   g   0 t1:                                                    -        * t3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'L. Poz  
X  12' -   -         LPa
PACIFIC   IILE      R       
/            BRAZIL _  ARGENTINA 3!   X  r ~& _' * j_^>mRETINA
60M
14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
16'
0 &~~~~~~~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
rij                          ~~~~~~0 50   100  150  200  250  300
KILOMETERS
220-
Thin,. mp oapcad,coby theiep Oesig Uni .f The.Wold Bank.
T/ne bacodacr, -ol-r, deno.minti-n and any other infarmatIon
r   ARGENTINA                                                       A.- aan n thin mop do oot imply, on the port f The World Bank
GcoIp, -yT jcdgmet -n the lea ntto f  arty te-ty,mn
680  660                                                        etn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d--nmt or accptanc a/su-h boundaries.
MARCH 2000






IBRD 26624R
6'8'                  6'6'                  64°                   62'                   60' 100
_   A                                     ~~~~~~~B O L I V I A
10°  B R A Z I L                                                                   OIL, GAS AND PRODUCT
FACILITIES AND NETWORK
Guoyrri r
Ribero                                                                MAJOR GAS FIELDS
*C 7obi  PN  *PANDO                                                                   o    MAJOR OIL FIELDS
\  v   w  C   \   Qc)   ~                          PROJECTED GAS PIPELINE       12'
OIL AND PRODUCT PIPELINES
12'
'. <  >S.   ¢   0'   ti'   t_GAS PIPELINES
*             f                                              pt b! REFINERY
0  , f/  ,g   2   \    -/t <<  -xGGAS PLANTS
Cg g <5 2 0 t / (                                                                      U    >\ l MAIN PRODUCT DEPOTS
LU.    ;      /          /       L. Rogagudo\
I f      N       3             B      E     N       1                                               The boundaries, colors,
Rogagua         ~~~~~LSo                                            deof''insadany
ri 0   ,>   XL   ogt g    fLuias:   u i                         other information shown
14'                                     Ana                      n~                                      on this map do not
14°       \        ' *                       z                         e An) g (0 t"""      )0~rimply, on the part of
The World Bank Group,
Te 1A< J 4vrinidrad   s :                             a  rny judgment on the legal
I   4 o    -                             idad                                               statuso any territory,
.e                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.
-i   n  --  .-     >  T O  5       mVaay  - / i111 !                 P A  RA         RGAUZAIY L
16                                                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~1 6'
\                               ,>S yzi            ,  A        Rgorj AN0A |JCeoI    iS                   60°s
0A,ko                L Ca 4 pasonej ~ELNO                                                                                erto rL Paz  Puer
0                                                                                       .' ' .  g  '''~Pcam    A r   uce   )
2i4° ~        0 ~     t~ 50un 10    5    0    50u EATENT APIALS                               PARAGU5   IL        \AYAUA
a m a ~        ocba      /         2
ru                         --- CIRNTZERU                                      .. -  .- 
Lake                          L~~~~~~~~Lme-
CHLE6866  1t62  ARGENTINA                                                                                Lse.C'ob,s
DEPARTMENTsCAPITALSPN          2                                           9
0   50  100  150  200  250                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti20
DEPARTENTABONDARIE
-IOETR                             INENAINL  ONARE 
42'                                                      L~6 6'64                 2                          AGNTN 
JUNE 1999I






IBRD 30382
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND EXPLOITATION AREAS
=   TRADITIONAL ZONES                                 PROTECTED AREAS:                              DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
PETROLEUM CONTRACTED AREAS                        MANAGED                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
UNDER REDEFINITION                        DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
PROPOSED                           -*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
[  Ii POTENTIAL
I ~  ~    ~                                      
68'                  66                     64'                  62'
-10'                              I 
BRAZI L            ,                                                                       P                      BRAZIL
PERU
S-                                                                            -       I6Lpa 
PANDO  J
Cobija                                                                               12°    PACIFtC
-12°     \   97t 4-    <          (                               ~                                  OCEAN
v   v  or,_x    B R A Z I L    J ARGENTINA
60'
?f                       ~~~~BENI
16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
PERU    A'                                          Trinidad                      <                                               't |
\La PAZ SRUZ  '^^ 
88 
zo-    cot                        sPy    W                      ./. ~~~~-                                   Q-Poto
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
->            POTOSI                HUQUISAC                                     PARAGUAY
0   5H0  100  150  200  250  300
KILOMETERS
22' 
-22'
This -ep oas pPodscad by the Mop Degn unii of The World Book.
The bo-sd-ies, -olor,  -en 0nn6-0  -nd- on'oher snfornsoo
@        ARGENTINA    qbJ on olhi np do ot krpy, on the prl F Th. Wold B-ka
Gs-ossp .on'jdgn.entonthe l-gals5>0>0sof any terrttory, or to.
68'             k    66'                   64°                   62         endorson,on or ocoeptonoe of -suh boondbries  
I     I                      I                    I I |                                    MA^Pf B M






IBRD 30383
BOLIVIA
LANDS OF COMMUNAL ORIGIN
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND EXPLOITATION AREAS
z   TRADITIONAL ZONES                                     COMMUNITY TERRITORIES OF ORIGIN:                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
| PETROLEUM CONTRACTED AREAS                           WITH SUPREME DECREE                     *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
NEWCLAIMS                                    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
IMMOBILIZED                          -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
68°                    66,                     64°                    62°
-10°      BRAZI L                                                                                           PERU                    BRAZIL
-.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~             ~~~BOLIVIA
\Cobija12 
1 2'
BRAZIL                  / ~~~~ARGENTINA
L  0          A    t                       6 v                  ~~~~BRAZIL 
60.
1A,
PERU l                                                    inido
o La Paz   1_
O' ~~~~~~~~~.   %s    <3nschobamba  T          1                                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
18/ r,
>"<~~2tl               i®Potasi                                                   *- f**    / . 4 /~'
A~~~~ ¢.>'0  \                                      ' )200
4 C H I L E  !   09   <   Tasi a g 60  s   0   50  100  150  200  250  300
CHILE H I L E                                      T                                                 KILOMETERS                    22I
22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
This ,,'p    p,od~~ed by the Mo~p Desin Ueif of The world Soak.
Th. bou dries, oldo, der,oiotDo ondny other inrnhotion
, I!^                                   ARGENTI                                                      sho son -this pdo not nn p,on 1te  port of The. Word Bonk
Oroo, any jogseto. h logo1 statf ooy eroy,oan
618'             *    66'                                                         endorsemeot or auceyoance ofsurh boundaries.
MARCH 2000






IBRD 30381
BOLIVIA
INDIGENOUS AND AUTOCHTHONOUS PEOPLES
®    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
-. -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
68'                     66°                     64'                    62'
10'  BRAZIL  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~L.-                                                    BRAZIL
B RAZ I L                                                                                        .,',tA   \  \  PERU
YAMINAHUA               .BOLIVIA
MACHINERI        ,                               -                                                                      BOIA 
I2 -
4.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PACIFIC  0~HILEl '.~~
N*"                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEAN
11/ ARGENTINA
TORO\D<| | iL                                                   . - *BRAZIL
.    ARAONA          Z-t                                             
P E R U   F                          9  '                                                               6 0 '
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r                                                                                                        5'S eH -  N   A |  ^f ;w +  .   J
"  AAUAY
16'
16'            AFROBOLIVIANG
@(ECockaloamba
CSanta HCIruEz!b  Taijai   0    0   10   15   200250   po 
MARCH 20'0
PARAGUAY
QUEC14UA                                            ~~~~~~~0 50  100  150  200  250  300 
KILOMETERS                    21
22'
Tho opwo prodooed by the Mop Deiqn Unitof The Word Book.
~~~~Theoodre, color, demnainonayotr lrotn
ARGENTINA                                     A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooono thi snpdo nor imply, onepono he World Eenh
t68'                   660                     64'                     -2 eenst- -rocpto-ca -foh Ionio
MARCH 2000



