Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3378- BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Hydrocarbon Sector Social and Environmental Management Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 13, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3378- BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 2000, between the Republic of Bolivia (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
on April 27, 1992 the National Congress of the Borrower passed Ley de 
Medio Ambiente (Law No. 1333) which sets forth the legal framework for environmental 
management and protection; 
(C) 
on April 30, 1996 the National Congress of the Borrower passed Ley de 
Hidrocarburos (Law No. 1689) which sets forth the legal framework for hydrocarbons 
exploration, exploitation and distribution; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; 
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."; and
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified in 
its entirety to read as follows:
"(c)
No later than six months before the Closing Date, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
continued operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to 
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCB" means Banco Central de Bolivia, the Borrower’s central bank;
(b)
"CAS Strategic Objectives for Opportunity" means the Borrower’s strategic 
objectives set forth in the second column of the table in pages 2 through 5 of Annex 
B1 to the Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association and 
the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country 
Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Bolivia, dated May 21, 1998;
(c)
"Disbursement Letter" means the letter from the Association to the 
Borrower setting forth the procedures for the withdrawal of the proceeds of the 
Credit; 
(d)
"EIA" means any of the environmental impact assessments for hydrocarbon 
exploration, production and transportation activities in the territory of the 
Borrower, as provided in Law No. 1333 and Law No. 1689;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences on January 
1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(f)
"Beneficiary Agencies" means SERNAP, VAIPO, VMEH, VMPEPP, and VMMARNDF 
(all as thereinafter defined); 
(g)
"ITCC" means the Inter-institutional Technical Coordinating Council 
established and operating as provided in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
Page  3
(h)
"Ministry of Finance" means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s 
ministry of finance;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the Project’s operational manual dated May 11, 
2000;
(j)
"PCMU" means the Project coordination and monitoring unit within VMEH (as 
hereinafter defined);
(k)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of the Project’s objectives set forth in 
the PIP (as hereinafter defined);
(l)
"PIP" means the Project implementation plan dated May 11, 2000;
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on September 15, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
October 11, 1999;
(o)
"RTC" means any of the Regional Technical Councils established and 
operating as provided in the Operational Manual;
(p)
"SERNAP" means Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas, the Borrower’s 
National Service of Protected Areas;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(r)
"Stakeholders" means the Borrower’s Prefectures and Municipalities, civil 
society organizations (including non-governmental organizations), community 
organizations (including indigenous peoples organizations) and companies involved in 
hydrocarbon exploration, production, and transportation activities;
(s)
"UMA" means Unidad del Medio Ambiente, the Borrower’s Environmental Unit, 
within VMEH (as hereinafter defined);
(t)
"VAIPO" means Viceministerio de Asuntos Indígenas y Pueblos Originarios, 
the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Autochthonous Peoples;
(u)
"VMEH" means Viceministerio de Energía e Hidrocarburos, the Borrower’s 
Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons;
(v)
"VMMARNDF" means Viceministerio de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y 
Desarrollo Forestal, the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources, 
and Forestry Development; and
(w)
"VMPEPP" means Viceministerio de Planificación Estratégica y 
Participación Popular, the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of Strategic Planning and Popular 
Participation. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Page  4
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing on June 15, 2010 and ending December 15, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  5
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through VMEH, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower, through VMEH, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and the PIP.
Section 3.04
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain ITCC and RTCs as advisory councils for the implementation of 
Parts A, B and C of the Project with membership structure, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
exchange views with the Association on any proposed modification to the 
membership structure, functions and responsibilities of such Councils; and(c)
prior 
to implementing any such proposed modification, take into account the views of the 
Bank thereon.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain at all times during the execution 
of the Project: (i) PCMU which shall be responsible for overall Project 
administration, coordination and monitoring; and (ii) UMA which shall be responsible 
for: (A) environmental monitoring and evaluation of the Borrower’s hydrocarbon sector; 
and (B) providing technical guidance for Project implementation.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that PCMU and UMA are staffed, at all times 
during the execution of the Project, by professionals with experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association, and shall operate under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its 
objectives; 
(b)
by the end of each quarter of Project implementation prepare, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation of project activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
Page  6
(c)
by September 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project, 
furnish to the Association a progress report on the execution of the Project, said 
report to be of such scope and detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested and to include the overall results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Project monitoring and evaluation, the 
Borrower, through VMEH, shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish, contract annual external reviews to 
assess compliance with the Performance Indicators, with independent consultants with 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
not later than one month after the submission of the annual external 
reviews referred to in subparagraph (a) above, furnish to the Association, for its 
review and approval, the results of each such review; and
(c)
not later than two months after the submission of the annual external 
reviews referred to in subparagraph (a) above, discuss the results of each such review 
with representatives of ITCC and RTCs, the Beneficiary Agencies and the Stakeholders, 
taking into account the Association’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within VMEH a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare, through VMEH, financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  7
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through VMEH, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial management system 
for the Project in order to enable VMEH, not later than December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through VMEH, shall prepare in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a management letter, acceptable to the Association, 
reflecting the results of an examination carried out by the independent auditors, 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) acceptable to the Association, concerning the VMEH 
internal controls. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: (a) that a financial management system, acceptable to the 
Association, has been established in VMEH and become operational; (b) that ITCC has 
been established and become operational; and (c) that the independent auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date of December 12, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Ronald MacLean 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrea Silverman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  9
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   180,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ ser-
 1,880,000
100% 
vices, including 
fees for audits
(3)
Training and   
   880,000
100%
Coordination
(4)
Refunding of
   350,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   410,000
TOTAL
 3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "training and coordination" means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities, workshops and 
coordination meetings under the Project, including the travel cost and per diem of the 
trainees, rental of facilities and equipment, training materials and simultaneous 
translation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services as set 
forth in the Disbursement Letter.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
BCB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Section A of this Schedule. Deposits into, and withdrawals from, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and 
the procedures set forth in the Disbursement Letter.
2.
(a)
For the purposes of this Section B of Schedule 1, the terms:
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in Section A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
Page  10
to time to the Eligible Categories.
(b)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, the Association may require the deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Association shall so determine, require the refund to the Association) of 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account if, at any time:
(a)
the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant said Section in respect 
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; and 
(b) 
the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the social and environmental 
management of hydrocarbons exploration, production and transportation activities in 
the territory of the Borrower, so as to contribute to the achievement by the Borrower 
of the CAS Strategic Objectives for Opportunity.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of technical assistance to ensure adequate prevention, regulation and 
mitigation of social and environmental impacts resulting from investments in the 
Borrower’s hydrocarbon sector.
2.
Training of the staff of the Beneficiary Agencies and Stakeholders on 
participatory mechanisms for regulation and mitigation of social and environmental 
impacts of hydrocarbon exploration, production and transportation activities.
3.
Carrying out of consensus building workshops with the Beneficiary Agencies and 
Stakeholders, in order to facilitate consultation and participation in the carrying 
out of Part C of the Project.
4.
Establishment and operation of ITCC and RTCs
Part B:
Logistics and Communication  
Improved information sharing between Beneficiary Agencies and Stakeholders, 
through the installation and utilization of the equipment required to facilitate 
on-site monitoring and evaluation activities, and the dissemination of related 
information, by such Agencies.
Part C:
Information Base and Studies
Carrying out of studies on the Borrower’s hydrocarbon sector for the purposes 
Page  11
of: (i) developing a strategy for the dissemination of public information and 
systematic mechanisms for consultation and participation; (ii) developing proposals 
for ensuring consistency of the Borrower’s hydrocarbon sector regulations; (iii) 
developing strategies and mechanisms for regulation and mitigation of social and 
environmental impacts, including an mechanism for the sustainable financing thereto; 
(iv) analyzing social and environmental practices of hydrocarbon companies, and 
developing best practice guidelines and an emergency preparedness framework to improve 
response capability of Stakeholders; (vi) identification of social and environmental 
impacts in specific cases of hydrocarbon exploration, production and transportation, 
in order to assess the regulatory response thereto; and (vii) analyzing sectoral 
capacity to design and implement contingency plans.
Part D:
Administration, Coordination and Monitoring
(a) 
Establishment and operation of PCMU;
(b) 
provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of independent 
annual evaluations of Project implementation; and
(c) 
carrying out financial audits of Project activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
1.
Guidelines
(a)
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), as such Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time 
to time; and (ii) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
2.
Grouping of Contracts
(a)
Contracts for goods shall be packaged in sizes adequate to attract 
maximum competition and to ensure economy and efficiency in the procurement process. 
Contracts shall not be divided into smaller units in order to make them less 
appropriate for competitive procedures. Any proposal to divide a contract into smaller 
packages shall require the prior approval of the Association.
(b)
To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
3.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Standard Documents
In the procurement of goods under NCB, and IS/NS (as hereinafter defined in 
Section V) the Borrower shall use standard documents acceptable to the Association.
Section II: 
Employment of Consultants
Consultant Guidelines
Page  12
(a)
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant 
Guidelines), as such Consultant Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time to 
time; and (ii) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Section III.  Records and Audits
1.
Records
(a)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained Procurement Records adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound procurement practices (including 
related supervision, review and auditing) the procurement 
activities of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and
(ii)
ensure that all such Procurement Records evidencing such 
procurement activities are retained until at least two (2) years 
after the Closing Date.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, Procurement Records mean:
(i)
with respect to procurement of goods: public notices of bidding 
opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; bid opening 
information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by bidders and 
outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; records on 
claims and dispute resolution; and records of time taken to 
complete key steps in the process; and
(ii)
with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for 
expressions of interest; requests for proposals and addenda; 
technical and final evaluation reports; formal appeals by firms 
and related outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; 
records on claims and dispute resolution, and records of time 
taken to complete key steps.
2.
Audits: 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Procurement Records audited each Fiscal Year, in accordance with 
internationally accepted procurement standards consistently applied, by independent 
procurement experts acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no 
later than four months after the end of each such Year, the report of said audit, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Association 
such other information concerning said audit as the Association may reasonably 
request.
Section IV.
Review of Procurement Action
1.
Prior to the issuance of:
(i)
any invitations to bid for goods,  the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association (the Procurement Plan), and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1; and
Page  13
(ii)
any requests for proposals to consultants, the proposed consultant 
selection process plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection process  plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association (the Consultant 
Selection Process Plan), and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Not later than June 1 and December 1 of each year of Project implementation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, a detailed 
update of the Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process Plan for the 
upcoming calendar semester.  Such update shall include: (a) a firm list of contracts 
to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and a tentative list of contracts to 
be procured in the subsequent semester; (b) estimated contract costs; (c) schedule for 
bidding; and (d) particular methods of procurement of goods or selection of 
consultants.
3.
The Borrower shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Consultant 
Selection Process  Plan and any update thereof in Development Business ** See footnote 
19 to paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines..
4.
The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the request of any 
one of them, exchange views with regard to the progress in the implementation of the 
Procurement Plan  and Consultant Selection Process Plan.
5.
Any modification to the Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process 
Plan shall require the Association’s prior review and approval.
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Procurement Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of goods under NCB:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids 
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
Page  14
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower’s agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
