                                               Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                     Report No: 67357-AL




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                                 OF THE

                   EDUCATION EXCELLENCE AND EQUITY PROJECT

                                       CREDIT NO. 4180 ALB

                                     (Approved on June 1, 2006)


                                             TO ALBANIA


                                            MARCH 1, 2012




Human Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARP              Annual Reform Program
CEB              Council of Europe Development Bank
EEE-P            Education Excellence and Equity Project
EIB              European Investment Bank
IDA              International Development Association
GoA              Government of Albania
MoES             Ministry of Education and Science
MoF              Ministry of Finance
NES              National Education Strategy
SWAp             Sector-wide Approach




         Regional Vice President:      Philippe H. Le Houerou
                Country Director:      Jane Armitage
                  Sector Director:     Ana Revenga
        Sector Manager / Director:     Alberto Rodriguez
               Task Team Leader:       Andréa C. Guedes
                                       ALBANIA
                       EDUCATION EXCELLENCE AND EQUITY PROJECT
                                        P078933
                                      CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                             Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1
B.   PROJECT BACKGROUND ................................................................................................ 1
C.   PROJECT STATUS ............................................................................................................. 2
D.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 3
Restructuring                                                 Status: Submitted to SECPO
Restructuring Type: Level one
Last modified on date : 03/01/2012

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                       P078933: EDUC EXCEL & EQUITY
Country                                 Albania
Task Team Leader                        Andrea C. Guedes
Sector Manager/Director                 Alberto Rodriguez
Country Director                        Jane Armitage
Original Board Approval Date            06/01/2006
Original Closing Date:                  12/31/2010
Current Closing Date                    03/31/2012
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]   06/30/2013
EA Category                             B-Partial Assessment
Revised EA Category                     B-Partial Assessment-Partial Assessment
EA Completion Date                      01/24/2006
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                           Original                         Revised
BORR                                                  30.00                             30.00
ECOU                                                  15.00                             15.00
EUIB                                                  15.00                             15.00
IDA                                                   15.00                             15.00
Total                                                 75.00                             75.00


3. Borrower
         Organization                   Department                          Location
Ministry of Education and
Science


4. Implementing Agency
          Organization                  Department                         Location
Ministry of Education and Science                             Albania




                                            ii
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 03/05/2012                                                          10.91
         Fiscal Year                              Annual                             Cumulative
2012                                                          2.52                                13.43
2013                                                          1.57                                15.00
                                                          Total                                   15.00


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                  N


Does the restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select                N
from the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.




7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The proposed EEE-P will support Government in the implementation of the first phase of Albania's
National Education Strategy (NES). The objective of EEE-P is improved quality of learning conditions for
all students and increased enrollment in general secondary education, especially for the poor.



7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]

The objectives of the Project are to support the Recipient's Program: (a) to improve quality of learning
conditions for students; (b) to increase enrollment of students in general secondary education; and (c) to
initiate higher education reform.




                                                    iii
                 EDUCATION EXCELLENCE AND EQUITY PROJECT

                                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

1. The proposed restructuring would support (i) revising the wording (but not substance) of
   the Project Development Objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) to align it
   with the objective stated in the Financing Agreement (FA); (ii) extending the Project’s
   closing date from March 31, 2012 to June 30, 2013, for an additional 15 months to allow
   for the Project’s successful completion; and (iii) reallocating proceeds across priority areas
   to reflect implementation progress and shortcomings.

B. PROJECT BACKGROUND

2. The Project’s Development Objective (PDO) is improved quality of learning
   conditions for all students and increased enrollment in general secondary education,
   especially for the poor. The intermediate goals are that leadership management and
   governance of the education system are improved, teachers use new methods of teaching
   and wider variety of learning aids in schools, the quality of school infrastructure and
   efficiency of its use are improved, and the initial steps of higher education reform taken.

3. The Credit for the EEE-P Project was approved by the Board on June 1, 2006, for
   SDR 10.5 million (USD 15 million equivalent) and became effective on October 4,
   2006.     The operation adopted a Sector-wide Approach (SWAp) to support the
   implementation of the first phase of GoA’s National Education Strategy (NES) (referred
   henceforth as the “Program?) with co-financing from the Government of Albania, the
   International Development Association (IDA), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and
   the Council for Europe Development Bank (CEB) (referred henceforth as “Development
   Partners?). Total approved financing for the Program is USD75 million equivalent of
   which USD15 million equivalent is from the International Development Association (IDA)
   and the remainder from the European Investment Bank (USD15 million equivalent), the
   Council of Europe Development Bank (USD15 million equivalent) and the Government of
   Albania (USD30 million equivalent). The World Bank is the lead supervision agency
   among the financiers and World Bank policies and procedures apply to the entire Program
   including fiduciary, social and environmental safeguards.

4. The Project’s first restructuring was approved by the Board on March 19, 2010, as
   the Project triggered the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard (OP 4.01) during
   implementation. At the time, the Restructuring Paper submitted to the Board’s
   consideration stated that the Project’s Development Objective (PDO) would remain
   unchanged as stated in the Project’s Financing Agreement. However, the wording of the
   PDO in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was different, and the two development
   objectives were not realigned during the restructuring.




                                               1
5. The Project’s second restructuring was approved by the Country Director on October
   1, 2010, to extend the Credit’s closing date by 12 months, from December 31, 2010
   until December 31, 2011. That extension was necessary to compensate for the time civil
   works were on hold pending the first restructuring, including carrying out due diligence in
   respect to the application of OP 4.01. Without the extension, most of the civil works would
   not be carried out. At the time of the extension, the Bank team informed management that
   a longer extension would likely be more realistic to complete implementation but that
   Development Partners had asked that the Bank extend the Credit by only 12 months to
   maintain the similarity of the agreements between the GoA and the three institutions.

6. The Project’s third restructuring was approved by the Country Director on
   December 14, 2011, to extend the Credit’s closing date by three months, until the
   current closing date of March 31, 2012. This extension was initially envisaged to be for
   18 months to allow for finalization of civil works. However, during its processing, the
   team identified a discrepancy in the wording of the PDO in the Financing Agreement and
   the PAD. It was thus decided that the Credit would be extended for only three months to
   enable the team to submit to the Board a first-order restructuring that would (i) align the
   wording of the Project’s Development Objective in PAD with that stated in the Financing
   Agreement; (ii) extend the Credit’s closing date for the remaining 15 months until June 30,
   2013 to allow the Project to achieve its objective; and (iii) reallocate proceeds across
   priority areas.

C. PROJECT STATUS

7. The Project’s progress toward achieving its Development Objectives (DO) is rated as
   Moderately Satisfactory as it has already met three of the four outcome indicators: (i)
   basic education drop-out rates remain very low, (ii) transition rates between basic and
   secondary education have exceeded 90%, and (iii) secondary gross enrollment rates
   reached 70%. Data on the fourth outcome indicator, increasing the teachers’ satisfaction
   level, will be available in another few months, once the on-going survey with teachers is
   completed. Likewise, most of the intermediate indicators have been met.

8. The Project’s Implementation Progress is also rated as Moderately Satisfactory. After
   more than two years of implementation delays caused mostly by addressing safeguard
   issues, project performance has substantially improved in the last year. Notwithstanding, it
   is not feasible to complete all the on-going activities, particularly civil works, by the
   current closing date of March 31, 2012.

9. Currently, 62% of total project financing (including from other Development
   Partners) and 67% of IDA Credit funds have been disbursed. Most of the remaining
   large contracts are for civil works; those have already been signed and are expected to be
   completed over the next 15 months.

10. The MoES and the Ministry of Finance have asked Development Partners to extend
    the Project’s closing date to enable successful completion of all activities and full
    disbursement of funds. This extension would allow the MoES to make up for the initial
    implementation delays and achieve the Project’s Development Objective. In October 2011
    the Development Partners carried out an implementation support visit of the Project and
                                              2
   reviewed planned activities for 2012, should the extension be approved. During that visit,
   on the basis of progress and discussions, Development Partners agreed to endorse the
   extension request before their corresponding managers.

11. Project Financial Management is currently rated as Moderately Satisfactory, reflecting
    an improvement in overall financial management arrangements for implementation
    compared to prior years; recommendations to further strengthen systems and controls have
    been adopted, and overall financial management capacity at the central and local levels has
    improved. There are no outstanding audit reports for the Project and the last one presented
    an unqualified opinion.

D. PROPOSED CHANGES

12. Project’s Development Objectives. This Restructuring Paper seeks approval to realign
    the wording of the Project’s Development Objective in the Project Appraisal Document
    with that of the Financing Agreement. The two development objectives are consistent, but
    as the wording of the Financing Agreement’s Development Objective better captures
    project activities, it would be used henceforth for all project reports.

13. Project design would not be altered by this restructuring but the re-worded PDO
    would no longer be explicit about its focus on the poor. Notwithstanding, as project
    design would not be changed by this restructuring, whenever relevant, project activities
    would continue focusing on the poor. On one hand, the Project supports the
    implementation of the National Education Strategy (NES), which provides a framework for
    a sector-wide reform. In that sense, all students and faculty in the education system should
    benefit from its improvements. On the other hand, the bulk of project resources also
    directly finance activities that target schools serving poorer populations. In particular,
    under priority area three (improving and rationalizing education infrastructure), schools
    are being rehabilitated, expanded, replaced or built in locations where there was a lack of
    adequate physical conditions to accommodate student demand. The Project is also seeking
    to close the gap between urban and rural schools by disproportionately financing
    educational inputs to rural schools. For instance, while in 2007 there were 143 secondary
    level rural students per computer (compared to 46 urban students per computer), today
    there 27 rural secondary level students per computer (compared to 24 in urban areas).
    Therefore, the Project’s focus would not change with this restructuring.

    Project         The objective of the Project is improved quality of learning conditions for
    Appraisal       all students and increased enrollment in general secondary education,
    Document        especially for the poor. The intermediate goals are that leadership
                    management and governance of the education system are improved,
                    teachers use new methods of teaching and wider variety of learning aids in
                    schools, the quality of school infrastructure and efficiency of its use are
                    improved, and the initial steps of higher education reform taken.
    Financing       The objectives of the Project are to support the Recipient’s Program: (a) to
    Agreement       improve quality of learning conditions for students; (b) to increase
                    enrollment of students in general secondary education; and (c) to initiate
                    higher education reform.



                                                 3
14. Reallocation of Proceeds. This Restructuring Paper also informs of a reallocation of
    funds across the Project’s four priority areas (i.e. components). Given the SWAp nature of
    the Project, funds are co-mingled with contributions from other Development Partners so
    that it is not possible to identify IDA’s individual contribution to each of the four priority
    areas. At the same time, project design requires yearly approval of the Government’s
    Annual Reform Program (ARP) by each Development Partner. The reallocation changes
    are consistent with project activities and progress, as reported below.

                                             Project Costs (US$m.)
                    Priority Areas                     Original         %              Revised          %
                                                       (in US$       Financing         (in US$       Financing
                                                       million)                        million)
        1.Strengthening leadership,
          management and governance of                   10              13.3           3.4              4.2
          the education system
        2.Improving conditions for
                                                         26              34.7           3.7              4.6
          teaching and learning
        3.Improving and rationalizing
                                                         32              42.7         64.2              79.6
          education infrastructure
        4.Setting the stage for higher
                                                          7               9.3           9.3             11.5
          education reform
     TOTAL                                               75            100.0          80.61           100.0

          Under “Strengthening, leadership management and governance in the education
           system," notwithstanding some noteworthy developments, most of the foreseen
           outcomes have not been achieved and will likely not be achieved. Delays are directly
           linked to the finalization and submission of the pre-university education law, which was
           recently approved by the Council of Ministers and is due for Parliament’s consideration
           in April 2012. With the approval of the law, MoES is expected to push forward its
           objective of further strengthening schools through decentralized some decision-making
           and budget decisions.

          Under “Improving conditions for teaching and learning,? the results have also been
           mixed and below expectations. On the positive side, the Project has supported the
           revision and roll out of a new secondary education curriculum, as well as the
           implementation of regular national student assessments, including Matura, and
           Albania’s participation in international student assessments (PISA). New criteria for
           teachers’ accreditation have been put in place and the in-service training for teacher and
           directors enhanced. The key activity that has not been rolled out by the Government,
           reflected in the low expenditure level, has been the school improvement process,
           including school grants. There are two important reasons for the delay in rolling out
           the school grants program. First, the school grant is part of the decentralization and
           school strengthening strategy, which is linked to the new pre-university law. Second,
           as this is a new area for the Government, the development of such program has taken
           longer than expected. Given these delays, Development Partners agreed with the


1
    Please note that variations are the result of exchange rate variations for the SDR, USD, Euro and LEKE.
                                                          4
       Government that the Project would continue financing the development of the grant
       scheme but that it would actually be implemented with Government’s own resources.

      Under “Improving and rationalizing education infrastructure,? the original appraisal
       document limited itself to stating that the Project would support improving school and
       classroom infrastructure, particularly in rural areas and increasing the number of
       schools that meet the minimum standards for classrooms and education facilities,
       without setting specific targets. Once those targets were set during implementation and
       the civil work costs estimated, costs clearly surpassed the original amount allocated to
       this priority area. At the same time, the 2011 “School Inventory and Conditions
       Survey? financed by the Development Partners confirmed that investing in school
       infrastructure in Albania should remains a priority: data on structural and internal
       assessment of safety of school buildings shows that 6 percent of school buildings are
       dangerous and require immediate action, and a further 27% although not dangerous,
       also require immediate action (e.g 15-17 percent of the walls, roofs and ceilings require
       immediate action). Further, access for disabled is seldom available (less than 5%
       overall). It should be noted that, while this reallocation would assign almost 80% of
       total project cost to this priority area, this is the one area of the Project that focuses on
       rural communities, disproportionately benefiting the poorer population.

      Under “Setting the stage for higher education reform,? progress has surpassed
       expectations and the Government is advancing with the reform at a faster pace than
       anticipated. All of the foreseen outcomes listed in the PAD for this priority area have
       been achieved, and the Government is requesting that the Project continues financing
       technical assistance to further develop some of the instruments of the higher education
       reform, and plans to start rolling out of a higher education financing reform over the
       year. MoES is also focusing on developing and implementing a higher education
       accreditation process, and ensuring that a reliable higher education module is included
       in the Management Information System being developed with project financing.

15. Closing date. Under the proposed restructuring, the Project would be extended by an
    additional 15 months, until June 30, 2013. This extension would enable the civil works to
    be completed, as well as other key activities supported by the Project. As stated earlier,
    project implementation was severely delayed as during implementation it triggered the
    Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard (OP 4.01), requiring the preparation of the
    corresponding resettlement documents for the Project and for individual sites. During this
    process, most civil works were put on hold, causing a delay of over 18 months in this
    priority area. Therefore, the extension of the closing date would compensate for those
    delays, enabling the Government to complete the work on remaining school sites.




                                                5
