ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 A World Frtitl vPrivrty
InfoShop
Report No: AC64
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/20/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ALBANIA                                 Project ID: P077297
Project: Second Community Works Project          Task Team Leader: Mark C. Woodward
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 9, 2003          IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 24, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 15.00
Managing Unit: ECSSD                              Sector: Roads and highways (40%); Other social
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  services (20%); Sub-national government
Status: Lending                                  administration (20%); General water; sanitation and
flood protection sector (20%)
Theme: Civic engagement; participation and
community driven development (P); Rural services
and infrastructure (S); Other social development (S);
Decentralization (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the Second Community Works Project (CWP II) is to alleviate local
bottlenecks hindering development (including infrastructure and services) through processes of
participatory local development as a result of: (a) improving access to quality social and economic
infrastructure and social services through sustainable micro-projects, and (b) promoting institutional
development at the local level. These activities will be carried out by the Albanian Development Fund
(ADF), a social investment fund with a proven track record since 1993.
ADF was established in the aftermath of the collapse of Albanian communism in 1990-91. In early 1993,
with the financial assistance of the World Bank, the Government launched a rural poverty alleviation
program, which included a community-based infrastructure works program to generate employment and
inject cash into rural areas, as well as to improve infrastructure on a demand-driven basis and enable
economic development. By 2003 ADF had already accumulated 10 years of experience working with
local governments and communities through four Bank-financed projects: the Rural Poverty Alleviation
Pilot Project (Cr. 2461), the Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680), the Urban Works Pilot Project (Cr.
2770), and the Community Works Project (Cr. 3164 and Cr. 3164-1, the latter being a supplemental
credit). ADF had also implemented projects funded by: the European Commission, the International
Fund for Agricultural Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the Development Bank of the
Council of Europe, and the Governments of Albania, France, Germany, Italy, and Switzerland. Over the
course of this decade ADF has developed a reputation as one of the most efficient institutions engaged in



2
ISDS
development activities in Albania. The proposed CWP II therefore represents a continuation of past
support, building upon ADF's strengths and seeking to improve in those areas of relative weakness. In
particular, this support will be designed to make ADF a vehicle for the implementation of the
Government's National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development (NSSED) as well as its program of
decentralization.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1: Community Sub-Projects
This component will finance an estimated 200 sub-projects aimed at improving local communities'
infrastructure. Sub-projects will cover both rural areas (about 120) and suburban areas (about 80).
Eligible sub-projects, which will be based on the priorities of communities, will include rural and
suburban roads, water supply, sewerage, lighting, pedestrian and rural bridges, market-places, buildings
(e.g., health centers, schools, day care facilities, cultural centers), and parks. In some cases, this
component will also finance social service activities to be carried out in and around rehabilitated
infrastructure. Such programs could include activities for children, youth, the elderly, or other vulnerable
groups. Local governments (i.e., communes and municipalities) will contract the implementation of
works to local construction contractors. The maximum size of sub-projects will normally be $100,000 in
rural and $150,000 in suburban areas.
Component 2: Capacity Building
This component will finance training and technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of local
government, communities, and ADF staff. It will include three programs: capacity building for ADF
staff; local government and community capacity building, and a participation pilot program. The pilot
program will introduce methods of participatory planning and participatory monitoring and evaluation. It
is expected that this program would subsequently be rolled out to other parts of the country. The
capacity building activities will emphasize hands-on, "on-the-job" training. Often this training will be
informal, provided, in the case of local governments and communities by ADF staff or contractors
(NGOs and/or consultants) in their on-going contacts with stakeholders, and, in the case of ADF, by
ADF's technical assistants. At other times training will be more formal, carried out through (e.g.,)
workshops. However formal training will be expected to be closely linked to involvement in ADF's
sub-project cycle, so that it would immediately be put to practical use.
Component 3: Project Implementation Support
This component will support the implementation of the CWP II by ADF by financing a portion of ADF's
operating costs (maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the project; salaries
paid to ADF staff, other than civil servants' salaries, hired for purposes of the project; and consumable
office supplies, communications, fuel, travel and per diem allowances). Internal ADF staff,
administration, and finance procedures are governed by ADF's Regulations (Administrative and Financial
Manual), which will be at all times satisfactory to IDA. Operating costs will be funded on a declining
basis over the life of the project.



3
ISDS
Components:
Community Sub-Projects
Capacity Building
Project Implementation Support
Project Preparation Facility
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
ADF finances projects in all communes in Albania. As all sub-projects are demand-driven there is no way
to determine a priori whether they will be in proximity to any protected or sensitive areas. However, the
environmental screening to be required under the CWP II would screen for environmental and safeguard
impacts and if appropriate mitigation measures cannot be implemented for any given sub-project, then that
sub-project would not be eligible for funding.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: This project has been rated Fl (Financial Intermediary) because ADF is a social fund that
provides financing for demand-driven sub-projects. Because the bulk of the project activities will be
demand-driven sub-projects that cannot be identified prior to appraisal, rather than carrying out
environmental assessment as part of project preparation, a mechanism for screening sub-projects for their
environmental impact will be included in the operational manual prior to appraisal. Environmental
assessment will then be carried out for specific sub-projects and/or sub-projects sites as appropriate.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                           * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No



4
ISDS
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         OYes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 OYes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
][I.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No large scale, significant, or irreversible impacts are anticipated. However, cultural property and
involuntary resettlement have been checked because there is the potential for minor impacts in the form of
chance finds and removal of small encroachments on public right of ways. All civil works will focus on
rehabilitation of existing structures. No new land acquisition is anticipated as no new construction activities
are expected under the project.
][I.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D. 1 c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental Assessment: See above.
Natural Habitats: The Natural Habitats safeguard is not expected to apply. However, given the project
environmental rating of Fl, provision has been made in the operational manual for screening of proposed
sub-projects for potential habitat issues.
Cultural Property: The project is unlikely to interfere with physical cultural resources. Nonetheless,
given that adverse impacts and chance finds are possible, appropriate measures to address such issues
have been introduced into the environmental screening mechanism described in the Operational Manual.
Involuntary Resettlement: Civil works carried out in this project will focus on rehabilitation of existing
structures and in public land wherever feasible. Any private land acquired for the work would be less
than 10% of each landowner's holding and as under the first CWP, the mode of compensation will
mainly be land-for-land. All compensation issues related to loss of land will be resolved before the start
of civil works and will be legally binding. A policy framework has been developed to address minor land
acquisition issues. Details of the policy framework matrix are available in the Operational Manual. The
matrix identifies potential adverse physical or social impacts in the scope of work within each item of
work that will need to be undertaken in the various types of sub-projects. Mitigation measures for each
of the potential adverse impacts have been recommended accordingly.
ADF will carefully document land acquisition processes and undertake supervision periodically. In
addition, the World Bank's task team will supervise the process twice a year during the first two years
and annually thereafter.



5
ISDS
Secondary claims on the Right of Way (e.g., fences, kiosks) will not be removed forcefully to complete
civil works. The commune/municipality will provide sufficient advance legal notice to the residents to
remove any secondary claims on the Right of Way. If structures continue to exist despite advance notice,
the sub-project will not be included for rehabilitation.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders include (but are not necessarily limited to): beneficiaries of project funding, community
members at project sites, local government (including Qarks) officials and staff, contractors, and
NGOs/CBOs working with other stakeholders. When the sub-project screening process identifies
potential environmental or safeguard issues at a particular site, consultation and disclosure will take place
as part of the process of community dialogue and participation at all stages of the sub-project cycle.
Furthermore, regular beneficiary assessments and the program of participatory monitoring and evaluation
will provide vehicles for monitoring impact and compliance.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S ]2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
E. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                3/14/2003     4/29/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            3/21/2003     5/8/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             3/21/2003     5/5/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                3/14/2003     4/29/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            3/21/2003     5/8/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             2/21/2003     5/5/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure



6
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actiual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Mark C. Woodward                              4/29/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Radhika Srinivasan                      4/29/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                               05/08/03
Sector Manager/Director:       Alexandre Marc                               05/08/03
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK       SWE MAP        SHOWCASE



