                                                Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL, USEONLY



                                                                                 ReportNo: 25796-ALB




                                   PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ON A

                                          PROPOSED CREDIT

                INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 10.9 MILLION(US$15 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                                 SECONDCOMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT


                                               May 29,2003




Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment
SouthEast EuropeCountryUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contentsmaynot be otherwise disclosed without World Bankauthorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective April 25,2003)
                 CurrencyUnit = Lek
                         Lek 1 = US$0.0078
                         US$1 = Lek128

                         FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 -- December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
             ADF            Albanian Development Fund
             CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
             CBO            Community-Based Organization
             CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
             CMG            Consultationand Monitoring Group
             CWP            Community Works Project
             EA             Environmental Assessment
             EMMP           Environmental Monitoringand MitigationPlan
             EMP            Environmental Management Plan
             FMR            Financial Management Report
             INSTAT         Institute of Statistics
             LDP            Local Development Plan
             LSMS           Living StandardsMeasurement Study
             M&E            Monitoringand Evaluation
             MIS            Management InformationSystem
             NCB            NationalCompetitive Bidding
             NGO            Non-GovernmentalOrganization
             NHA            NationalHousing Authority
             NSSED          National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development
             O&M            Operations and Maintenance
             PM&E           Participatory MonitoringandEvaluation
              SOE            Statement o fExpenditures
              SSDP           Social Services Delivery Project
             TOR             Terms o f Reference

                Vice President:    Johannes Linn
             Country Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
               Sector Director:    Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Mark C. Woodward

                                                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                                                      ALBANIA
                                   SECOND COMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT


                                                     CONTENTS




       A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                         Page

          1. Project development objective                                                       2
          2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

       B. Strategic Context

          1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
          2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
          3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4

       C. Project Descriptio11 Summary

          1. Project components
          2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
          3. Benefits and target population
          4. Institutional and implementationarrangements

       D.Project Rationale

          1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                              8
          2. Major relatedprojects financed bythe Bank andor other development agencies           9
          3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                    9
          4. Indicationso fborrower commitment and ownership                                     11
          5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         11

       E. Summary Project Analysis

          1. Economic                                                                            11
          2. Financial                                                                           12
          3. Technical                                                                           13
          4. Institutional                                                                       13
          5. Environmental                                                                       15
          6. Social                                                                              16
          7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   17

       F. Sustainability and fclsks

          1. Sustainability                                                                      18
          2. Critical risks                                                                      19

 This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
 the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      19


G. Main Credit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             19
  2. Other                                                                               20

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           20

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             20



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    39
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    40
          (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                          46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     51
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    52
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            55
Annex 11:Local Government inAlbania                                                      57
Annex 12: Participatory Monitoring& Evaluation Pilot for Institutional Leaming           61

                                                  ALBANIA
                                       SecondCommunity Works Project
                                    Project Appraisal Document
                                       Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                  ECSSD

Date: May 29,2003                                     Team Leader: Mark C. Woodward
Sector Manager: Alexandre Marc                        Sector(s): Roads and highways (40%), Other social
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              services (20%)) Sub-national government administration
Project ID: PO77297                                   (20%), General water, sanitation and flood protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Sector (20%)
                                                      Theme(s): Civic engagement, participationand
                                                      community driven development (P), Rural services and
                                                      infrastructure (S), Other social development (S),
                                                      Decentralization(S)


 [ ] Loan     [XI Credit     [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $15.00

ProposedTerms (IDA): ModifiedTerms
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity:20
Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50%



[DA                                                                   14.40              0.60          15.OO
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                      2.08              0.00            2.08
[TALY: DEV. COOP. DEPARTMENT (MOFA)                                    1.99              0.01            2.00
FinancingGap                                                           2.15              0.09            2.24
rotal:                                                                23.46              0.74          24.20

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective o f the SecondCommunity Works Project (CWP Il)i s to alleviate local
bottlenecks hinderingdevelopment (including infrastructure and services) through processeso f
participatory local development as a result o f (a) improvingaccess to quality social and economic
infrastructure and social services through sustainable micro-projects, and (b) promoting institutional
development at the local level. These activities will be carried out bythe Albanian Development Fund
(ADF), a social investment fundwith aproventrack record since 1993.
ADF was established inthe aftermath ofthe collapse o fAlbanian communism in 1990-91. Inearly 1993,
with the financial assistanceofthe World Bank, the Government launchedaruralpoverty alleviation
program, which included a community-based infrastructureworks programto generate employment and
inject cash into rural areas, as well as to improve infrastructure on a demand-driven basis and enable
economic development. By 2003 ADF had already accumulated 10years o f experience working with
localgovernments and communities through four Bank-financedprojects: the Rural Poverty Alleviation
Pilot Project (Cr. 2461), the Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680), the UrbanWorks Pilot Project (Cr.
2770), and the Community Works Project (Cr. 3164 and Cr. 3164-1, the latter beinga supplemental
credit). ADF had also implemented projects fundedby: the European Commission, the International
Fundfor Agricultural Development, the Islamic DevelopmentBank, the Development Bank o fthe
Council o f Europe, and the Governments o f Albania, France, Germany, Italy, and Switzerland. Over the
course o f this decadeADF has developed a reputation as one of the most efficient institutions engagedin
development activities inAlbania. The proposed CWP IItherefore representsa continuation o fpast
support, buildingupon ADF's strengthsand seeking to improve inthose areas o frelative weakness. In
particular, this support will be designedto make ADF a vehicle for the implementationo f the
Government's National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development (NSSED) as well as its program o f
decentralization.

2. K e y performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcomehmpact indicatorsto be monitored include the following:
   0     satisfactory technical audits;
   0     technical quality o f completed infrastructure andsocial service sub-projects;
   0     adequacyofmaintenance and/or service delivery;
   0     beneficiary satisfaction with completed sub-projects;
   0     numbero fbeneficiaries o fsub-projects;
   0     quality o fprefeasibility studies;
   0     quality o fmaintenance plans; and
   0     quality o f local andregional development plans.
Output indicators will be as follows:
   0     numberofsub-projects completed;
   0     numberofcapacity buildingprogrambeneficiaries; and
   0     project supervision report ratings.
These indicatorswill be regularly reportedon inProject Supervision Reports. Inaddition, supervision
will include periodic, quantitative assessments o foverall impact insuch areas as institutional and
community development (see section C2 below).




                                                     - 2 -

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:IDNR2002-0099               Dateof latest CAS discussion:June 20,2002
Albania has undergone a processo fmajor economic and social changesinthe last decade. On the
economic front, following a sharp contraction inthe early transition years (1991-92), GDP grew by about
9 percent annually inreal terms between 1993 and 1996, duringwhich inflationwas brought down
substantially, and both the current account balance and the fiscal deficit improvedsignificantly. With the
collapse o f the large pyramidschemes in 1997, however, economic growth also fell into the negative
territory, registeringa negative growth o f 7 percent inreal terms in 1997. A recovery program initiated
bythe government inthe aftermath o fthe crisis yielded quick dividends, andthe economy bouncedback
to register an average growth rate o f 7 percent over the next three years. The strong macroeconomic
performance continuedin2001, with inflationcontained at 3.5 percent and GDP growing at the rate o f
6.5 percent inreal terms.
Despite the impressive performance o f the economy inthe last decade, poverty inAlbania has remained
high.Per capita income, at around US$1100, hasremained one ofthe lowest among transition
economies. The National Stretegy for Socio-Economic Development (NSSED) identifies Albania's main
development challenges: weak law enforcement; corruption; an unattractive investment climate; low
quality and inacessible social services, especially education and health; poor infrastructure; and a
shortageo fbasic necessities, including water, sanitation, and heating. The NSSEDrecognizes also that
weak governance and institutions are at the root o fAlbania's developmental problems.
In this context, the 2002 CAS includes three areas of focus: "improve govemance and strengthen
institutions", "promote sustainable private sector growth", and "foster human development". The CAS
specifically makes reference to the CWP I1with respectto promoting sustainable private sector growth,
as a vehicle for promoting rural development (para. 46) and for improvinginfrastructure (para. 49). The
CWP 11will also contribute to the objective under the first area o f focus o f supporting community-based
activities that buildinstitutions from the bottom up (para. 38). Although the project will not contribute in
major way to the third area, it is likely that the project would fundthe rehabilitation o f some schools and
healthcenters.


2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
PovertyReduction TheNational Strategyfor Socio-Economic Development (NSSED
                     -                                                                      -- formerly
known as the Growthand Poverty Reduction Strategy and the Government o fAlbania's designation for
its PRSP) i s a comprehensive programthat aims to addresspoverty through the following systemic
reforms: (i) creating a growth-orientedbusinessenvironment that attracts investment and creates
employment opportunities for the poor; (ii)    improving human capital through improved quality and
access to social services such as health andeducation; and (iii)  empowering the poor through stronger
public accountability and increasedparticipation indecision making. The priority sectors o fpublic
actions identifiedinthe NSSEDare: (i)      health and education; (ii)
                                                                    infrastructure; (iii)improvemento f
govemance; (iv) economic growth; (v) social support; and (vi) macroeconomic stability. The NSSED
explicitlymentions tangible improvement o f infrastructure andrelated services (such as supply o fpotable
water, electric power, sewerage, etc.), as well as increasing the access o f the poor to these services, as
one o fthe mainGovernment's objectives. The NSSEDalso underlines the fact that poverty inAlbania is
a multidimensionaland mainly rural phenomenon (about 55 percent o fthe population and over 80
percent o f the poor live inrural areas), accompanied by a significant lack o f opportunities for
development and low access to infrastructureand services, which i s even more problematic in
mountainous rural areas. Despitethe reforms made inthe last decade, the village-town dichotomy



                                                      - 3 -

continues to be present. The strategic objectives include: (i) reduction through a sustainable
                                                                  poverty
gowth of production and incomes generatedfrom agriculture, livestock, and ago-processing; (ii)
protection and improved use o f naturalresources; and (iii)    increased access to and quality o f rural
services (education, health, social protection), potable water, sewage, and rural transport infrastructure;
and(iv) diversification o fthe ruraleconomy andthe increaseofemployment and incomes from
nonagricultural activities inrural areas.
Decentralization The environment inwhich ADF works has significantly changed over the last few
                    -
years through the Government's decision to deependecentralization reform and strengthen local
government. The last local elections put legitimate local governments inplace. The localgovernment
law took effect startingJanuary 2001. The main directions o f continued decentralization reform include:
(i)identification o f local public responsibilities and their effective delegation; (ii)
                                                                                      balanced expansion o f
fiscal autonomy and property rights; (iii)   enhancedlocal government capacities; and (iv) increase o fthe
transparency and level o f community participation ingovernance. Note also that the NSSEDsimilarly
emphasizes stronger public accountability and increasedpublic participation indecisionmaking to
empower the poor.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty Targeting- The proposedproject will significantly contributeto the Government's poverty
reduction strategy by improvingaccess to social and economic infrastructure and social services,
particularly inthe rural areas, creating employment opportunities for the poor, as well as increasing
community participation indecisionmaking. Duringimplementation o f the CWP I,           ADF adopted a"one
commune, one sub-project" rule, which helpedthem to contain political pressureto intervene inspecific
areas. However, inorder to linkthe CWP I1to the National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development,
the CWP I1will include specific mechanismsofpoverty targeting. Suchpoverty targeting should ensure
that: (i)all communes will be eligible for ADF support; (ii)    proposals will bejudged and rankedagainst a
set of criteria that will include (inter alia) measures o fpoverty and expected impact (inaddition to
disqualifying criteria to cover, for instance, cases where previous investments hadnot beenmaintained);
and (iii)there will be an allocation o f funds by qark (i.e., region) basedon population and poverty
coefficients.
The sub-project selection processwithin CWP IIwill therefore disregard the past distribution of
sub-projects to favor a stricter poverty targeting mechanism. Poverty targeting underthe CWP LIwill take
place at the regional level. The distribution o f fundingby qark will be determined basedonpoverty
coefficients and population. ADF had already developed a targetingmechanismbasedon available
arable land (for rural areas) and the unemployment rate (for urbanareas), which i s beingusedto target
ADF's investmentsin2003. However, abetter indicator willbe available shortly: poverty (headcount)
indices obtained by applying econometric techniques to combine data from the 2002 LivingStandards
Measurement Survey andthe 2001 populationcensus. This work, being carried out bythe Institute o f
Statistics (INSTAT) incollaboration with the World Bank's research department, will result inpoverty
indices for all qarks andmunicipalities, and possibly communes as well. Itwas agreedthat for ADF
investments starting in2004, the distribution o fresources will be determinedby substituting a headcount
indexfor the indicators currently beingused.

Decentralization Under the project ADF will continue to finance community-based social and
                   -
economic infrastructure sub-projects implementedbymunicipalities and communes. Furthermore, the
project will implement several changesinapproach that will contribute to the implementationofthe
Government's decentralization program. First,as part o f the project's capacity buildingcomponent,
training will be provided to buildthe capacity o f local governments to assess the needsand demandsfor
servicesand infrastructure, and to carry out planning,budgeting and competitively procure services from



                                                     - 4 -

private providers. Second, inline with the recommendations o f the Institutionaland Managerial Review
carriedout as part o fthe evaluation o fthe first CWP, ADF's charter will be changedto indicate that ADF
i s at the service o f local government units (Le., communes andmunicipalities     -- seeAnnex 11). Third,
the CWP IIwill foster community participationbymore explicitly facilitating the dialogue betweenlocal
communities and localgovernments than was the case inthe past. And finally, the composition o f ADF's
Boardwill be revisedto reflect the decentralization strategy bymaking room for representatives o f
communes/municipalities as well as o f qarks (currently the Board is dominated bythe presence o f
national Ministries -- see Section C 2).


C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost
breakdown):
Component 1:CommunitySub-projects
This component will finance an estimated 200 sub-projects aimed at improvinglocal communities'
infrastructure. Sub-projects will cover bothrural areas (about 120) and suburban areas (about 80).
Eligible sub-projects, which will be based on the priorities o f communities, will include rural and
suburban roads, water supply, sewerage, lighting,pedestrian and ruralbridges, market-places, buildings
(e.g., health centers, schools, day care facilities, cultural centers), and parks. Insome cases, this
component will also finance social service activities to be carried out inand around rehabilitated
infrastructure. Such programs could include activities for children, youth, the elderly, or other vulnerable
groups. Local governments (Le., communes and municipalities) will contract the implementationo f
works to localconstructioncontractors. The maximumsize o f sub-projects will normally be $100,000 in
rural and $150,000 in suburban areas.
Component2: CapacityBuilding
This component will finance training andtechnical assistanceto strengthen the capacity of local
government, communities, and ADF staff. It will include three programs: capacity buildingfor ADF
staff; local government and community capacity building, and aparticipationpilot program. The pilot
program will introduce methods o fparticipatory planning andparticipatory monitoring and evaluation. It
is expected that this program would subsequently be rolledout to other parts o fthe country. The
capacity buildingactivities will emphasizehands-on, "on-the-job" training. Often this training will be
informal, provided, inthe case o f local govemments and communities byADF staff or contractors
(NGOs and/or consultants) intheir on-going contacts with stakeholders, and, inthe case o fADF, by
ADF's technical assistants. At other times training will be more formal, carriedout through (e.g.,)
workshops. However formal training will be expected to be closely linkedto involvement inADF's
sub-project cycle, so that it would immediately be put to practicaluse.
Component3: ProjectImplementationSupport
This component will support the implementationo fthe CWP 11byADF by financing aportionofADF's
operating costs (maintenance and operation o f equipment procured or usedunder the project; salaries
paidto ADF staff, other thancivil servants' salaries, hiredfor purposes o f the project; andconsumable
office  supplies, communications, fuel, travel andper diem allowances). InternalADF staff,
administration, and finance procedures are governed by ADF's Regulations (Administrative and Financial
Manual), whichwill be at all times satisfactory to IDA. Operatingcosts will be funded on a declining
basis over the life o fthe project.




                                                      - 5 -

  Capacity Building                                                 1.10          4.5         0.90        6.0
  Project Implementation Support                               I    1.90   I      7.9   1     1.10   1    7.3 [
  Project Preparation Facility                                      0.50          2.1         0.50        3.3
                                            Total Project Costs    24.20       100.0        15.00       100.0
                                    Total FinancingRewired         24.20       100.0        15.OO       100.0

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
 Governance-ADF Board Currently the ADF Board is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and
                               -
includes representatives from six ministries as well as one representative each from the communes and
NGOs. The Institutional andManagerial Review recommended revisingthe composition ofthe Boardto
achieve a better balance betweenthe NationalGovernment and representatives from the local level.
These recommendations were discussed and approved indiscussions with other donors and with the
DeputyPrime Minister. ADF hastherefore draftedarevisedCharter underwhich the Boardwill include
representatives o fno more than four ministries (Economy, Local Government and Decentralization,
Finance, and European Integration) and a majority o f representatives from the association o f mayors, the
association o f chiefs o f communes, as well as representatives from qarks. The Boardwill continue to be
chaired bythe Deputy Prime Minister. Approval o f this revised statutewill be a condition o f
effectiveness o f the credit.
Community Involvement ADF has demonstrated an ability to work effectively with local governments.
                             -
Incontrast, despite the demand-drivennature ofits activities, ADF's ability to work effectively with
villages and community groups has been an area o f relative weakness. Therefore, under the CWP 11,
ADF will needto strengthenits capacity bothto work with communities andto facilitate dialogue
between localgovernments andlocalassociations. To this end, ADF plans to increase the numbero f
"Social Inspectors" (Le., community development specialists) on its staff, hiringpeople with a
backgroundincommunity development, NGOs, or applied social sciences. It also plans to provide
community development training to other ADF staff. Furthermore, ADF's operational manual i s being
revisedto strengthen community involvement, notably byrequiring participatory feasibility studies.
Finally, the Local Government and Community Capacity BuildingProgram will include local level
training to buildcapacity for participatory approaches to local development.
Monitoring andEvaluation ADF has operatedwith relatively weak monitoringand evaluation systems.
                                -
Inthepast this was dueto the lack ofanintegrated managementinformation system(MIS) to track
sub-project identification, appraisal, implementation and financial flows. While ADF has had an
operational MISsince the beginning o f 2002, there is still scope for strengthening monitoringand
evaluation. To this endthe CWP IIwill support monitoring and evaluationintwo ways:

0   First,ADF will synchronize the MIS system with the new operational manual currently being
    finalized. As it reviews project monitoring forms, it will include indicators o f how the social
    dynamics ofthe community change where ADF is active.

0   Second, through the ParticipatoryMonitoring and Evaluation pilot (under the Capacity Building
    component), ADF will explore ways to involve communities more fully intracking how ADF
    activities fit into local development plans.



                                                    - 6 -

Inaddition, as part ofproject supervision, the WorldBank (incollaborationwiththe Albanian Statistical
Institute) will conduct a quantitative impact assessmentbased on household and community data. In
connection with the LSMS survey program, inJune 2002 the Albanian government collected data from
3600households in450 enumeration areas. Becauseof ADF's broadnational coverage, ADF has
completed projects inroughly 100o f those sampledvillages. Thus, with no additional data collection
costs, one can compare household and community indicators for villages where ADF was active against
matchedcommunities where it was not. Usingex-post impact evaluation basedon propensity score
matching, the Bank andADF expect to gain valuable insightsinto project impact. Further, LSMS will
revisit halfo f the households from this initial sample in2003 and 2004. This panel information will
allow other worthwhile opportunities to examine ADF's impact over time and innewly active
communities, includingproviding input into the project's mid-termreview. It i s further expected that
subsequent such surveys will be able to provide additional information throughout the project's life.

Donor Coordination Lack o fcoordinationamong ADF's main donors causedsignificant problems
                       -
duringimplementation ofthe CWP I, at least two respects. First,conflictingprocedures, particularly
                                        in
with respect to contracting, resulted inconfusion and procedural errors. Secondly, ADF has hadto put
up with a large number of audits, whichwas highlydisruptivewithout providinga clear overallpicture o f
ADF's finances. Hence ADF and its key donors share the view that there is a needfor better
coordination andharmonization of the activities o f various donors. Already steps have been taken inthis
direction through the decision to consolidate the financial audits of ADF. The development o f a common
operational manual to be sharedby as many donors as possible will be a further step inthis direction.
Progresshas also beenachieved inharmonizingprocurement procedures, although complete
harmonizationis not feasible at this time (because some elements o f the European Commission's
Practical Guide are not acceptable to the Bank). ADF is also working on better coordination, and where
possible, consolidation o fplanning, monitoring, and reporting activities.


3. Benefitsandtarget population:
Benefits. The project will benefit the Albanian populationby:
   0    improvingcommune I municipality social andeconomic infrastructure;
   0    increasing access to basic social and economic services and improvingthe quality o f the services;
   0    buildingthe capacity o fcommunities andcommunalauthoritiesto plan, implement, operate, and
        maintain development sub-projects;
   0    increasing productivityandincome over the medium- and long-term, as economic investmentsin
        infrastructure such as roads and water supply improve businesses profitability.
Targetpopulation. The project will be implementedcountry-wide. However, as discussedinsection
B3, the project will assure that proportionally more funds are transferred to poor communities through
theuseof poverty indicators. As notedabove, anation-wide impact evaluationis also plannedpriorto
the mid-termreview and again prior to project completion.


4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
The project is to be implementedover aperiodo f four and 112 years.
The primary implementinginstitution will be the Albanian Development Fund(ADF).As notedabove,
ADF is a social fundwith a decadeofexperience infinancing infrastructurerehabilitationandother
developmental activities throughout Albania. ADF is an institutionwith financial and legal autonomy
established by Special Decree o f the Council o f Ministers. ADF's performance hasbeengenerally quite
good. Nonetheless,the proposed project will effect a number o f significant changes inADF operations



                                                    - 7 -

and management, with a view to strengthening and enhancing the developmental impact o f sub-projects.
Policy guidance will continue to beprovidedbyADF's Board. As indicatedabove, the ADF Boardi s
currently beingrevisedto give a majority to representatives from local governments. ADF reports solely
to its Board.
ADF-financed infrastructure sub-projects are carriedout by private enterprises contracted, under the
guidance o fADF, by communes andmunicipalities. Implementationo fthe community social services
activities will be sub-contracted to localNGOs and CBOs.
All financial management activitieswill be carriedout bythe ADF.
Flow of Funds
Project hnds will flow from: (i)the Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished
on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; or (ii)
the Government, via the Treasury at the Ministryo f Finance (MOF) on the basis of payment requests
approved by the Treasury Department o f the MOF directly to the local supplier for VAT and other taxes.
The beneficiariescontribute 10%ofthe total cost ofthe sub-projects. This contribution is also managed
byADF. The system appliedto secure proper commitment of the beneficiaries andtransparent
procurement has worked very well inthe previous projects. The flow of funds have beenan integrated
part of the project cycle as described inthe Operational Manualrevisedand basedon the experience of
implementingsub-projects. The new project will putmore emphasison securingthe operation and
maintenance o f sub-projects after projects are finished.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The CWP 11is conceived as continuationofand improvementon the CWP Iandits Supplemental Credit.
Several alternatives were considered:
         One was to not have any follow-up project at all. After all, after a decadeof successful
         experience, ADF couldlogically be seen as ready to stand on its own. However, it was
         concludedthat continuedBank support would still be desirable, for a number o freasons. First,
         ADF's governancecould stilluse some improvement, andBank involvement is the most likely
         way o f effecting such improvement. Second, improvement i s still neededincommunity
         involvement, andthe Bank can facilitate this process. Third, there i s a need for better
         coordinationbetweenthe ADF programs financedby different donors and again the Bank i s best
         placedto do that. Finally, ADF continues to be one o f the most effective institutions promoting
         development inAlbania, and i s well-tuned with the Bank's development goals inAlbania.
         Another alternative could have been to simply replicate the previous project. This approach was
         also deemedundesirable for the same reasons listed above.
         A thirdoptionwas to radically change the nature o fADF, devolving muchmore responsibility to
         communities and makingADF muchmore autonomous from the Government. While this option
         appearsquite attractive, inthe Albanian context it was deemedinappropriate, for several reasons.
         First,at atime whenAlbania is strengthening localgovernments as part ofthe decentralization
         program, it was felt that the linkages between communities and local governments shouldbe
         strengthenedand communities shouldnot be strengthened inisolation from localgovernments.
         Second, such an approach would riskweakening the linkages betweencommunity level
         development and national policy, when these shouldbe strengthened. Third, radically changing
         the nature ofADF wouldnot builduponADF's strengths. Fourth, this approach wouldhave
        meant drivinga wedge betweenthe more traditional donor programs at ADF and the new project,



                                                    - 8 -

        rather than strengthening the coordinationbetweendonors. And finally, a more gradual
        approach is more likely to be accepted, and therefore implemented, byADF
Ultimately it was decided to take a course o f action somewherebetweenthe secondandthird alternatives
above, moving inthe direction o f givinggreater responsibility to communities and local governments,
notablyby strengthening ADF's ability to work at the community level, while buildinguponADF's
strong ability to work with local governments, and changing the composition o f ADF's Boardto give
greater weight to localinterests. The proposed project will therefore effect significant changes inADF's
programs, particularly inareas o fweakness, without jeopardizing ADF's areas o f strength.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies(completed,
ongoingandplanned).
                                                                                  Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                             Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                              (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                             Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                Progress(IP)    Objective(DO)
                                         Community Works Project I                 S               S
                                         Social Services Delivery                  S               S
                                         Project
                                         RuralPoverty Alleviation                 HS              HS
                                         Project
                                         RuralDevelopment Credit                   S               S
                                         UrbanWorks Project                        S               S
                                         IrrigationRehabilitation                 HS               S
                                         Rural Roads                               S               S
                                         UrbanLandManagement                       S               S
                                         Emergency RoadRepairs                     S               S
                                        Project
                                        Water Supply Urgent                        S               S
                                        Rehabilitation Project
                                        RoadMaintenance Project                    S               S
                                        MunicipalWater and                         S               S
                                        Wastewater project
 Ither development agencies
 ZuropeanUnion                          PHARE, CARDS
 (fw                                                        Fund
 2ouncil o f Europe Development Bank    -SocialInvestment
 'slamic Development Bank               Northeast Development Project

                                        Rural InfrastructureProject
                                                                             HighlyUnsatisfactory)



Despite the clear success o fthe CWP I,some lessonshave been identified that shouldbe reflected inthe
project design o f CWP II.What follows i s a short description o f the main lessons learned (note that ADF
has agreedto implement measures to address these lessons):




                                                   - 9 -

Infrastructure works: The rehabilitation o f infrastructure has creatednoticeable benefits. However, in
many cases, sub-projects appear incomplete due either to some inappropriateness inthe design (e.g., an
asphalt roadthat does not reach the whole community insteado f a longer gravel road) or becauseo fthe
limits imposedby financial ceilings (e.g., the repair o f a mainwater supply pipe but not o f the secondary
pipesthat distributewater to the beneficiaries). Both issuesshouldbe addressedbybetterattentionto the
relative costs andbenefits o fthe various technical solutions appropriate for each sub-project and by
formally requestingclearance to exceedthe financial ceiling where required.
The supervision o f works i s another areawhere improvement i s needed, both to ensure highquality
results and to strengthen ADF's image. Currently there are no precise TOR for design or supervision, and
there is aninsufficient definitiono f the requiredintensity o fthe supervisor's presenceon site. Moreover,
there are typically no technical tests on site, or lab proofs o f the quality o f materials. Also, while some
technical audits have been fieldedbyvarious donors including the World Bank, they usually remain quite
general and have not focused on compliance with contract specifications. Otherwise there are no
external technical audits to verify compliance o fworks within the foreseen quantities and dimensions.
To address these concerns, ADF has agreedto betterdefine the TOR attached to designerhpervisors'
contracts. Part o fthese provisions will be standardized (per type o f work) and completed with other
detailed provisions to be drafted specifically for each particular sub-project. These TOR would require a
detailed supervisionprogram for each site. Furthermore, formal scheduleso f site visits and site
supervision reports will also be preparedand would be required for each sub-project, basedon standards
recommendations and sub-project specific recommendations. These will be requirednot only from the
sub-project designer/supervisor, but also from the commune/municipality, ADF Technical and Social
Inspectors, and ADF's Regional Inspector. Inaddition ADF has agreedto contract independenttechnical
audits to regularly review a sample o f sub-projects.
Social services delivery: The experience o fADF with Social Services Delivery has beenmixedand
generally there is roomfor improvement, particularly inthe area o fphysical works. Despite a less than
perfect experience, improvements have already been noticed duringthe last phases o f the first CWP and
beneficiaries have given a very positive assessment o fthis component. The CWP Ihas demonstrated that
the sustainability o fsocial sub-projects depends on a very careful assessment o fcommunity needsand
involvement. Whencommunity priorities are respectedand reliable local partners are identified,
sustainability i s likely andbeneficiaries satisfaction is high. Moreover, this component has helpedADF
reach out to local communities. Underthe CWP I1social services delivery will no longer be treated as a
separate component. Rather ADF will experiment ina small way with promoting service delivery linked
to the rehabilitationof infrastructure, notably o f communal community centers.
Localgovernment and community capacity building: HistoricallyADF has found it easier to build
long-termrelations with local governments than with localcommunities. However, there has been
significant progress to correct this over the last two years as the Social Inspectors have been introduced
and have developedtheir work. Despite this there are still some discrepancies betweenthe objectives in
ADF's Charter andthe situation onthe ground. While ADF shouldbe encouraged to continueworking
with local communities, the Institutional and ManagerialReview suggestsrevising ADF's Charter to
clarify that ADF is an executingagency at the service o f communal and municipal authorities to facilitate
the development of economic andsocial infrastructure. This would bemore intune with the on-going
decentralization process. Also, giventhe current empowerment process o f localgovernments and the
socio-cultural context, it i s also appropriate for ADF to focus on buildinglocal government capacity in
CWP II, by community participation, rather than visa versa, and to facilitate development
         supported
dialogue betweenlocal communities and local government, thereby fostering community participation in
local development. This wouldbe a significant development o f the process started underthe first CWP,
which was less successfulthan envisaged, because o f the problems outlinedabove.



                                                     -10-

Governance: As notedabove, there i s a needto bringthe ADF Board closer to the local level. Infact,
while a ministerial Board ensures highvisibility, it also representsanunnecessaryburden. The current
Boardi s not inline with the on-going decentralization process and roomneedsto be made for
representatives o f communes/municipalities and qarks, as well as for local communities. An agreement
inprincipleonBoardcompositionhasbeenreachedwithADF andthe Government ofAlbania and
ADF's Charter i s currently beingrevisedto reflect this agreement(see section C2). Furthermore, the
project's mid-termreviewwill reviewthe effectiveness o fthe new Board composition inpreventing
politicizationo fADF's activities (other topics for examinationduring the review include the question o f
whether the level o fbeneficiaryparticipation is appropriate and the experience o fthe Participation Pilot).
Donor coordination: ADF is a multidonor implementing agency and one o fits biggest challenges i s to
coordinate all the different donors' activities. Conflictingprocedures (particularly with respect to
contracting andprocurement) have inthe past causedconfusion among ADF staff, bidders, and
beneficiaries. Additionally, ADF has been burdened by a large number o f audits, which have been highly
disruptive ofregular operations. Since 2001 this situationhas partly improved, as it was agreedthat a
consolidated financial audit o fADF would be carried out yearly. As described insection C2, preparation
of the CWP I1i s being carriedout inclose collaboration with ADF's principaldonors.


4. Indicationsof borrower commitment andownership:
The Government ofAlbania has expressedits desire that the World Bank continue to support ADF on
many occasions. Followingthe disastrous floods that hit Albania duringthe Fall o f 2002, the
Government formally requested that the World Bank accelerate project preparation. A PPF advance was
also requestedbythe Government inorder to have continuity between the CWP Iand the CWP 11.The
implementing agency, ADF, has also shown continuing support and collaboration.

5. Value added of Banksupportinthis project:
ADF was foundedadecadeago with WorldBankfinancing. Although the Bank isno longer ADF's
largest donor, it has continued to play a key catalytic role inhelpingADF develop as an effective
institution for improving the livingconditions o f the poor inAlbania. Most o fADF's donors follow the
Bank's lead with respect to programs and procedures. None o fADF's donors provide the same
qualitative level o f supervision as the World Bank. It follows that no other donor is as well placed or
capable o f assisting ADF inaffecting the changes necessaryto strengthen its governance and
effectiveness.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis(Detailed assessments are inthe project file, seeAnnex 8)

A
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
   Costbenefit          NPV=USS million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
P  Other (specify)
Micro-projects to be financedunder the project are expected to yieldhigheconomic returns, since ADF
will finance simple but cost-effective social and economic infrastructure. Annual beneficiary
assessments carriedout since 1998indicate a highlevel o f overall satisfaction concerning the selection o f
projects and the quality o f works, citing increases intrade, economic activity, agricultural production,
and access to employment as the most significant benefits. Other reportedbenefits include
improvements inthe quality o frural life and restoring a sense o fvillage community.
As is often the case with social funds, evaluatingADF's cost-effectiveness is difficult becauseADF is
mainly rehabilitating infrastructure while most other available cost data refer to either new construction


                                                    - 11-

costs or larger-size works (as opposedto the small size o fADF-funded sub-projects), makingany
comparisons questionable. Nonetheless the limitedavailable data suggest that ADF's costs are lower
thanthoseunder other government programs inAlbania. ADF's annual overheadexpensesas a share of
total program costs o f 6.5% compare very favorably with other social funds (see Annex 4).
Inorderto improveowabilitytoanalyzeADF's effectiveness inthefuture, fourmeasuresareenvisaged.
First, feasibility studies will be carried out for eachsub-project. Second, acost databasewill be
established and includedinthe MIS. Third, annual beneficiary impact assessmentswill ascertain the
impact o f sub-projects on communities. And finally, as described insection C3 above, the World Bank
plans to carry out a systematic ex-post evaluations o fproject impact basedon LSMS survey data.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financing of Operating Costs. Underthe first CWP IDA financed 100%o f incremental operating costs
associatedwith the IDA financing. This will no longer be possible, bothbecausethe Bank now requires
such costs to be financed on a declining percentage and becauseo f concern about the future financial
viability and sustainability o f ADF.
CostRecovery. Cost recovery (broadly defined) is important as a means of assuring the sustainability of
ADF sub-projects. A beneficiary contribution of 10% is currently requiredfor all ADF-financed
investmentsandthis will be continued. Insome sectors user fees are expectedto be a key element of
sustainability. This i s particularly the case for water supply systems, where the national strategy
currently beingfinalized suggests the introduction o fmeteringas a means o f limitingwastage and
encouraging responsible use. Users fees are also expected to be collectedfor social services sub-projects.
Financial Controls andAccountability. As mentionedabove, donor coordinationhas recently made
noticeable progress with the carrying out o fthe first consolidated audit report, covering all ADF
activities --financed by all donors -- thereby presenting a comprehensive financial picture o f ADF. An
Internal Audit Department has also beenrecently established under the Executive Director. This Unitis
currently operating as a monitoring unit (checking files, trouble shooting problematic sub-projects, etc.).
Itwouldbe advisable that this Unitwould graduallybecome a technical andfinancial audit unit, staffed
with at least a trained auditor. The new law onInternalAudit for the government and the procedures,
checklists, training developed as part o fthe implementation o fthe law shouldbe utilized inthese
improvements o fthe internal audit. ADF's regulations will be revisedto indicate that the Unitreports to
the Board as well as to the Executive Director.


FiscalImpact:
The project will finance localpublic infrastructure; therefore, the project will not aimto fully recover the
capital cost o f infrastructure sub-projects from beneficiaries. The Project will require US$0.5 million o f
statebudget contribution over the four andone halfyear implementationperiod(not includingVAT`
reimbursements), or about US$lOO,OOO per year. Localcommunities are expectedto contribute an
additionalUS$1.5 million inupfront sub-project contribution (10 percent o f sub-project costs). By
alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks and stimulating local economic activity, the project i s expected to
contribute to higher tax revenues for the Government inthe mediumand longterm. Inaddition, the
project will strengthenthe capacity o f local governments and communities to take responsibility for local
economic development, thereby alleviating over time the dependency on central government transfers.
Sub-project operations andmaintenance costs will be paidmainlyby local governments and localusers
of infrastructure (rural roads, water supplies), and insome cases by line ministries (schools, health
centers). Inthe latter case, line ministries will be requiredto sign off on the sub-projects that concern



                                                     -12-

them. Careful attention will be givento ensuring the financial sustainability o f all sub-projects.
Participating local governments/communities will be required to submit a detailedoperational and
maintenance plan that includes: (a) estimate of the operations and maintenance cost; and (b) financial
responsibility of users and local governments, including direct labor contribution. Inaddition, ADF staff
will continue to monitorthe status of sub-project operations and maintenance after sub-project
completion and communes that have not adequately maintainedsub-projects would not be eligible for
future sub-projects.
The project is expectedto finance about US$I.5 million inVAT incurredon sub-project contracts (20
percent VAT). VAT expenditures will be reimbursedbythe Government inaccordancewith Council o f
Minister DecisionNo. 509, datedAugust 12, 1996; Presidential DecreeNo. 1582, datedAugust 15,
1996; and Ministryof FinanceRegulationNo. 7/1, dated October 3, 1996.

3. Technical:
TechnicalDesign is often good; however, some frequent weaknesses include insufficient problem
analysis, weak integration o f the needs expressedby the beneficiaries, too little attentionto operations
and maintenance, and insufficient final checking of sub-project design on-site before works execution.
Furthermore, there i s no formally expressedtechnical strategy o f ADF per type o fwork. Some
standardization o f some technical and costs standardswould also be useful. Underthe CWP 11,
sub-project designwill be improvedby:
   0    requiringmore effective supervision of designfrom the commune/municipality, ;
   0    introducing a `preliminary design' step before undertakmgthe detailed design;
   0    establishing standard technical guidelines and costs standardsfor each type o f work, inline with
        the gradually emerging national standards and sector strategies;
   0    keeping records of design quality and design supervision effectiveness for each sub-project; and
   0    gradually reducingthe role o f technical assistanceindesign supervision.
As far as the MIS utilization is concerned, the following improvements have been agreed: to set-up data
control systems; to improve the exploitation o fthe available data (to produce for instance: management
dashboards, financial forecasts, technical and operational forecasts, analysis o fpast actions, evaluationo f
contractors and designers, o fcommune/municipality performance; unit costs, evolution o faverage costs,
budget preparation; tasks planning, staff management, etc); to install a GIS-Geographic Information
System; to complete the set of available data; to adapt the MIS to CWP IIfeatures including the proposed
new sub-project scoring, ranking and selection process.

4. Institutional:

4.1 Executing agencies:
ADF hasa proventrack recordas executing agency. Forthe past ten years, ADF has beena quite
successfulmultidonor implementing agency for community-based projects. Issuesthat require
improvement relate to human resourcesmanagementand financial management, and are being addressed
though PPF resources (see below).

4.2 Project management:
ADF is organizedinsevengeographical areas. Ithas a staff o f around seventy employees, o fwhich
twenty are district engineers, seven are regional inspectors and one is the Department Director. ADF i s
assistedbytwo long-termtechnical assistants overlookingtechnical and management issuesas well as by
short-term consultants. It was agreedthat a number o f activities will be undertaken through PPF
resources, such as:



                                                    - 13-

   0     Updating the TOR andjob descriptiono fADF staff, particularly the Social inspectors;
   0     Devising a training programfor ADF and local government/ communities staff;
   0     Formalizingthe yearly staff evaluationprocessandrevisingthe salary structure;
   0     Producingunit costs for the most frequent types o f infrastructure projects, as well as clear
         overhead and operating costs;
   0     Upgradingthe accounting software system.
These activities are currently under way. Inorder to improve quality control, it was also agreed, as i s
done for certifying the financial managemento fthe ADF projects, to undertake some periodic
independent external technical audit o fworks samples. Such audits will be done by independent
consultants / companies, according to terms o freference similar to those proposedabove for an ADF
internal quality control. The levelo fworks supervision and final quality will also be formally evaluated
for each sub-project, and recorded inthe MISand taken into consideration as a specific criterion inthe
commune / municipalitysection infuture sub-project scoring and ranking system.

4.3 Procurement issues:
ADF has a longexperience ofimplementingdemand-driven projects andhas the necessarycapacity and
capability for implementingprocurement under the proposed project. Nevertheless, there i s room to
improve ADF's procedures and practices to increase its effectiveness. While there should be only few
goods and consultant services contracts, the mainthrust o fthis project will be community-driven
development inwhich communes and municipalities will receive funds for their sub-projects and will be
responsible for implementing them, including conductingprocurement. This means that inaddition to
improvements inADF's procedures andpractices, it will be necessaryto have a strong capacity building
element inthis project. To this end ADF has agreedto the implementation o fthe actionplan contained
inthe Procurement Capacity Assessment carriedout as part ofproject appraisal (see the ProjectFile and
Annex 6).
Inaddition, inanattempt to harmonizethe Bank's procurement requirements (which are also usedby
ADF for most ofthe activities fimdedby other donors) with those ofthe EuropeanCommission(EC),
ADF hasdrafted ajoint NCBbiddingdocument that hasbeenreviewedandapprovedbythe World
Bank. While the harmonizationis not total (notably the EC does not allow NCB for contracts less than
300,000 euros), this goes a longway towards having a common procurement processfor all ADF
contractingofworks.

4.4 Financial managementissues:
The financial managementarrangementso f the project are acceptable to the Bank.
As of the date o fthis report, the borrower is incompliance with its audit covenants o fexisting
Bank-financedprojects. ADF's previous and current project financial statementsand auditing
arrangementsare acceptable andit has been agreedthat these arrangements will be replicated for CWP II
although with a strengthenedfinancial management systemand an improved financial reporting. The
annual audited project financial statementswill be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f
each fiscal year.
The latest Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) confirms that improvement i s required
inthe managementofpublic expenditures, includingcashmanagement inTreasury andbetter internal
control throughout the public sector. Internal audit is currently being developed to improve the
government's internal control environment. ADF has developed policies and procedures that operate in
addition to those ofthe current public expenditure management framework to minimize project financial
managementrisks.



                                                   -  14-

 The banking sector inAlbania is relatively weak andthe BankofAlbania where the Special Account
will be opened does not provide normal commercial banking services. However, ADF will open all of its
projects' second-tier BankAccounts ina commercial bank acceptableto the Bank whose financial status
and statements are reviewedon an ongoingbasis by the Bank. As these arrangementshave been
satisfactory inrespect of the previous Bank projects, they will remain inplace duringCWP 11project
implementation.
All financial managementactivities will be carriedout bythe ADF.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: F (Financial IntermediaryAssessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultationand disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No major environmental issues are anticipated inthe project due to small size and rehabilitationnature of
the sub-projects. Some o fthe infrastructure sub-projects (particularly roads, foot bridges, water supply,
and sewerage) could have minor environmental impact and/or cause environmental health hazards. Given
that specific activities are only to be identified inthe course ofproject implementation, a mechanism for
screening and assessing negative environmental impacts as well as developing mitigationplans was
developed and implementedunder CWP I;          this hasbeenreviewed and further strengthenedas part of
CWP I1project preparation. Details o f the procedures to be followed for environmental assessments and
mitigationplans are available inthe Operational Manual.
Key stakeholders include (but are not necessarily limitedto): community members at the project site, the
municipalities, sub-project designers, ADF -- through its district engineers, and the responsible
government bodies, that is, Ministryo f Environment, RegionalEnvironmental Agencies, Public Health
Directorates, UrbanPlanningDepartments, and Public Enterprises.

5.2 What are the mainfeatures o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The Operational Manual details the mechanism for environmental screening and assessment o f
sub-projects and sites. EMPs may be developed for particular sub-projects and sites ifnecessary.

5.3 For Category A and Bprojects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date of receipt o f final draft:
N / A

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment managementplan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
At the pre-feasibility stage o feach sub-project, the commune/municipality will prepare anEAto identify
the potentialenvironmental impacts o fthe sub-projects. The EA will be basedon information provided
by the beneficiaries andthus, the commune/municipality will consult the beneficiaries extensively. As
part o fthe feasibility study, ADF inconjunctionwith the commune/municipality, will undertake a more
detailed study o f the potential environmental impacts inand around the sub-project area, andwill also
suggest possible mitigation measuresto be considered by the sub-project designer andthe
commune/municipality.
5.5 What mechanismshave been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Duringboththe construction andoperational phasesofeach sub-project, the commune/municipality will
carry out routine monitoring to ensure that the requirements o f the EMP are beingcomplied with.



                                                     -15-

Furthermore, ADF will contract a fir"G0         to conduct an annual review o f a sample o f sub-projects to
ensure that negative environmental impacts, ifany, are beingaddressedby adequatemitigatory measures.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project development objective o fthe CWP IIwill be that communities express demand for anduse
micro-projects for appropriate productivepurposes. The increasedvoice and participation o f
beneficiaries inthe project, as well as increased transparency and accountability o f institutions that serve
them, are expected to produce quality social andeconomic infrastructureand social services andpromote
institutional development at the local level. Thus, one o f the expected social development outcomes o f
the project will be empowerment o f the beneficiaries.
An additional feature inthe design ofthe project is the participatory monitoring and evaluationexercise
that is to be pilotedina few qarks. This is expectedto reinforce the implicit attempt inthe project to
ensurethe access of diverse individuals and groups (e.g., women, youth) to development opportunities,
thereby addressing the separateneeds o f differentconstituencies. By buildinginfeedback mechanisms
through which beneficiaries will contribute to monitoring and evaluationwith respect to their own
empowerment (e.g., their ability to make decisions; theirjudgments regardingthe social impact of
sub-projects; to what degree intendedbeneficiaries have benefitedetc.), the development outcome
pertaining to inclusion shouldbe firther strengthened.
A potential riskthat may arise is that ofelite capture or the exclusion of minorities or other vulnerable
groups. This possibilitywill be mitigated by strengtheningADF's capacity to work effectively with
communities and through the implementationo f a participatory monitoring and evaluation system.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating inthe project?
Local communities will prioritize their infrastructure needsandprepare prefeasibility studies for selected
sub-projects. The prefeasibility study will be an innovation introducedunder the CWP IIto as a vehicle
to strengthen the quality o f sub-projects and to ensurethe participation o f stakeholders. To this end it
will cover the following subjects:
   0     How beneficiaries have participatedinthe sub-project selection at the villageheighborhood
         level;
   0     What local associations exist inthe comune/municipality and to which extent they will be
         consulted inthe sub-project decision-making process;
   0     How beneficiaries and local associations will be associated at each step o fthe sub-project;
   0     Howbeneficiaries will participate insub-project operationandmaintenance andwhether they
         would assume any formal responsibility inthe process; and
   0     How the sub-project will affect vulnerable groups (women, elderly, youth, Roma and other
         minorities, etc.).
Inaddition, socialmonitoringactivitieswill bebuiltintotheproject, inthe formofregular beneficiary
assessmentsand through the program o fparticipatory monitoringandevaluation. These activities will
provide a meanso fmonitoring that there i s appropriate andeffective stakeholder participation.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Inadditiontotheabove, NGOsandCBOswillcollaborate intheprovisionofservice inthosecases
where social service delivery is combined with the rehabilitationof, say, a community center. For
example, at such sites a localNGOcould be contracted to cany out educational and recreational




                                                    -16-

activities for youth.

6.4 What institutionalarrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As discussed above, the composition ofthe ADF Boardis to be changedto give greater weight to the
local level. Furthermore, the Operational Manual has been redraftedto redefin the way beneficiaries and
local communities will be involved inthe sub-project decisionmakingprocess. Additional measures that
should serve to strengthen empowerment and inclusion are described inthe sections on "key policy and
institutional reforms'' and ''lessons learned". With respect to accountability, the project will both
strengthen procurementprocedres and facilitate monitoring through the institution o f annual tecnical
audits to review all aspectsof the project cycle for a sample o f sub-projects.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The project Monitoringand InformationSystemwill monitor project performance, as a whole and by
individual sub-project. Inaddition, as noted above, a system o fparticipatory monitoring and evaluationi s
to be pilotedand eventually expandedunder the CWP 11.Furthermore, ADF will continue to contract out
the implementation of annual beneficiary assessments to monitor the various stakeholders' levels of
satisfaction with the project. Finally, the quantitative impact assessment described insection C2 above
will provide a basis for assessing the project's impact on social development outcomes.


7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
EnvironmentalAssessment: See above.
NaturalHabitats:The Natural Habitats safeguardis not expected to apply. However, given the project
environmental rating o f FI, provisionhas beenmade inthe operational manual for screening o f proposed
sub-projects for potential habitat issues.
CulturalProperty:The project is unlikelyto interfere with physical cultural resources.Nonetheless,
giventhat adverseimpacts and chance finds are possible, appropriate measuresto address such issues
have been introducedinto the environmental screening mechanism described inthe Operational Manual.
InvoluntaryResettlement:Civil works carried out inthisproject will focus onrehabilitation o fexisting
structures and inpublic landwherever feasible. Any private land acquiredfor the work would be less



                                                    - 17-

than 10%ofeach landowner's holdingandas under the first CWP, the mode ofcompensationwill
mainlybe land-for-land. All compensation issuesrelated to loss o f land will be resolvedbefore the start
o f civil works andwill be legally binding. A policy framework has been developed to addressminor land
acquisition issues. Details of the policy framework matrix are available inthe Operational Manual. The
matrix identifies potential adverse physical or social impacts inthe scope o f work within each itemo f
work that will needto be undertaken inthe various types o f sub-projects. Mitigationmeasures for each
o fthe potential adverse impacts have been recommended accordingly.
ADF will carefully document landacquisitionprocessesandundertake supervision periodically. In
addition, the World Bank's task team will supervise the processtwice a year duringthe first two years
and annually thereafter.

Secondary claims on the Right o f Way (e.g., fences, kiosks) will not be removedforcefully to complete
civil works. The commune/municipality will provide sufficient advance legal notice to the residents to
remove any secondary claims on the Right o fWay. Ifstructures continue to exist despite advance notice,
the sub-project will not be includedfor rehabilitation.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability is potentially a concern at two levels: that o f ADF itself and that o f the projects
implementedthrough ADF. The long-term sustainability o fADF is less of a concern. Although ADF
was not intendedto be a permanent institution, it has been active for a decade and will continue to
operate as long as funding is available, either through donors or from clients willing to pay for services.
The project will contribute to the medium-termsustainability o fADF by investingincapacity building
and institutional development and bybeginningto withdraw Bank financing for operating costs (as a
means o f buildingup Government ownership).
Incontrast, the sustainability ofthe projects implementedthroughADF is a criticalconcern ofADF
management, which has carried out a systematic review o f the degradation o f all previous ADF-funded
projects. This review found that one quarter o f all projects showed degradation estimated at more than
15 percent. Consequently ADF has, over the last two years, attempted to seriously address this issue,
notably by requiring adequatemaintenance before considering any new projects at any particular location
and by intensifying work with communities to encouragebetter maintenance. A recent review found that
there i s a growing awarenesso f commune/municipality staff for maintenance needs and requirements
coupled with strongly growing acceptanceamong beneficiaries o f the need to pay for services through
local taxes or user fees. Nonetheless, under the CWP 11, these measureswould be further enhancedby
considering the requirements for operations and maintenance throughout the sub-project cycle, starting
with identification, and by working with communities and local governments to develop credible O&M
plans. Those institutions that would needto provide funds for operations andmaintenance (e.g.,
municipalities, line ministries) would be required to sign offon sub-projects prior to implementation. It
should be notedthat, while sustainability o f sub-projects i s a serious concem, this is a country-wide issue
inall sectorsand, indeed, ADF is well placedto makeprogress onthis issue.




                                                    -18-

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                          Risk Rating                 Risk MitigationMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
Sub-projects will not be designedand                  M          Prefeasibility and feasibility studies shall detail
implementedwith adequate attention to                            both quality criteria and sustainability plans.
quality and sustainability.

Capacity buildingwill not respondto the               M          Capacity buildingwill be concerted ina
needsand interests o fbeneficiaries.                              participatoryway with beneficiaries.

Political influence will misdirect                     S         ADF Boardwill berestructured to give greater
investments and erode local ownership                             weight to local representatives and ADF's
                                                                 procedureswill be strengthenedto enhance
                                                                 transparency
From Componentsto Outputs
Local communities cannot be organized                 M          Local communities that cannot organize
to decide on priorities and participate                          themselves and participate actively through the
meaningfully in sub-project                                      sub-project life will not be considered.
identification, design, implementation,
operation, and maintenance.

Local governments fail to cooperate and               N          Local governments that fail to cooperate will
support project objectives.                                      not be considered for future sub-projects.

ADF will have inadequate capacity to                  N          The project would include training for ADF
cany out sub-projects.                                           staff.
OverallRisk Rating                                    M
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRis
           -                                  M (ModestRisk), Ni legligible or Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversialAspects:
NIA

G. Main Credit Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

   0    Execution o fthe Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into betweenthe Government o fAlbania
        and the Albanian Development Fundmaking the proceeds o fthe credit available to ADF.
   0    Approval by the Councilo f Ministers o f the amended Charter o fthe Albanian Development
        Fund(amendment o fthe Government DecisionNo. 207 dated April 28, 1999)inform and
        substancesatisfactory to the Association.




                                                    - 19-

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used inthe LegalAgreements.]
   e     Project Implementation: Approval byADF's Board o f Trustees o f ADF's revisedOperational
         Manual (Le., its Regulations and Operational Guidelines) inform and substancesatisfactory to
         the Association would be a condition o fdisbursements for sub-projects under the Community
         Sub-Projects component.

    Financial Covenants.
ADF will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The project financial
statements, SOEs and Special Account will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and on terms o f reference acceptableto the Bank. The annual audited statements and audit report will be
provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year. The audit will comprise all ADF's
activities.
The auditors should be members o f a professional accounting body that i s a member o f the International
Federation o f Accountants (IFAC). In addition, the audits will need to be conducted in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as issuedby the P A C and on terms o f reference acceptable to
the Bank. The auditor will be appointed inthe beginning o f the financial year, preferably for more than
one year.
ADF will maintain acceptable financial managementwith accounting standards according to
International Accounting Standards (IASs) and InternationalFinancial Reporting Standards(IFRSs) as
promulgatedby the InternationalAccounting Standards Board(IASB) for the purposes o f the financial
statements required to reflect their operations andfinancial condition.

H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1.a)   The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the

3 1.b)   start o fproject implementation.
         Not applicable.

32.Theprocurement         documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
a3.TheProject
       project implementation.
                    ImplementationPlanhas been appraised and foundto be realistic and o f satisfactory

34.    quality.
       The following items are lackingand are discussedunder loanconditions (Section G):

Finalization o fADF's revised Operational Manual.

1. Compliancewith Bank Policies
3 1.This
a2.        project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
      The following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommended for approval. The project complies
       with all other applicable Bankpolicies.
                                                        I




MarkC. Woodward                          Alexandre Marc
Team Leader                              Sector Manager


                                                    - 20 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                                  ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project


Sector-relatedCAS Goal:            iectorIndicators:
Improve governance and             itakeholderperceptions
strengthen institutions -
support community-based                                           ionitoring                      effective than top-down
activities that build institution5
from the bottomup (para. 38)
Improve the business               !egional development           ational Strategy for           benefits o frural and
environment promote rural
              -                    idicators
development (para. 46) and                                        ionitoring                     be sharedwith some
improve infrastructure (para.
49)


Project Development                btcome I Impact
Objective:                         idicators:
To alleviate local bottlenecks     atisfactory technical audits   nnual independent            Local efforts will be usedto
hinderingdevelopment               ndbeneficiary assessments      isessments o f a sample o f   support community-based
(including infrastructure and      % rated S or HS)               ib-projects
services) through processes o f                                                                 Quality works will respond
participatory local
development.
To be achieved as a result of:

1.Improving access to quality       Technical quality o f          InstitutionalAssessmentto
social and economic                 completed sub-projects (%      be carried out for Mid-Term
infrastructure and social           rated S or HS)                 Review
services                            Adequacy of maintenance        Annual independent
                                    and/or service delivery (YO    assessmentso fa sample o f
                                    rated S or HS)                 sub-projects
                                    Beneficiary satisfaction with  Annualbeneficiary
                                    completed sub-projects (%      assessments
                                    rated S or HS)                 District and Social
                                    No. o fbeneficiaries o f       Inspectors' evaluations as
                                    sub-projects                  recorded inthe MIS
2. Promotinginstitutional           Quality o fmaintenance        ADF's evaluations as
development at the local level      plans (YOrated S or HS)       recorded inthe MIS
                                    Quality o f local
                                    development plans (%rated
                                    S or HS)




                                                             -21 -

                                                               DataCollection Strategy

P
Outputfrom each                 htput Indicators:              roject reports:              'romOutputsto Objective)-
Component:
1. Sub-projects to rehabilitate 40. o f sub-projects completed  ADF quarterly progress      ub-projects will be designed
social and economic                                             reports                     nd implemented with
infrastructure and provide                                      MIS                         dequate attention to quality
community-based social                                                                      nd sustainability
services
2. Programs to build local      io. o flocal government units   ADF quarterlyprogress       :apacitybuilding will respond
government and community        ndofcommunal technical          reports                       the needs and interests of
capacity                        taff trained                    MIS                         eneficiaries
3. Implementation of the CWP    'SRratings                      Supervision mission reports olitical influence will not
I1                                                                                          iisdirect investments or erode
                                                                                            )cal ownership




ProjectComponentsI              iputs: (budgetfor each         roject reports:              'rom Componentsto
Sub-components:                 omponent)                                                   kitputs)
1.Community Sub-projects        14.9 million                   .DFquarterly progress and     Local communities canbe
                                                               isbursementreports            organized to decide on
                                                                                             priorities and participate
                                                                                             meaningfully in sub-project
                                                                                              identification, design,
                                                                                             implementation, operation,
                                                                                              and maintenance
2. Capacity Building            1.2 million                    DFquarterly progress and      Local governmentswill
                                                               isbursementreports             cooperate and support
                                                                                             project objectives
3. Project Implementation       1.6 million                    DFquarterly progress and       ADFwill have adequate
support                                                        isbursementreports             capacity to carry out
                                                                                              sub-projects
                                                                                              Security situation will
                                                                                             permit project
                                                                                              implementation




                                                          -22-

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                            ALBANIA Second CommunityWorks Project

By Component:

Project Component1 US$20.70 million
                       -
CommunitySub-projects
 This component will finance approximately 200 sub-projectsaimedat improvinglocalcommunities'
 infrastructure. Sub-projects will cover bothrural areas (about 120) and suburbanareas (about 80).
 Eligible sub-projects, which will be basedon the priorities o f communities, will include rural and
 suburban roads, water supply, sewerage, lighting, pedestrian and ruralbridges, market-places, buildings
 (e.g., health centers, schools, day care facilities, cultural centers), and parks. Local governments @e.,
 communes and municipalities) will contract the implementationo fworks to local construction
 contractors. The maximum size o f sub-projects will be 100,000 USD for rural and 150,000 USD
 suburban areas. Sub-projects could include consultant services for social services, particularly inculture
 or community centers incommunes. Social service activities will be carried out inpartnership with
 local NGOs and CBOs.
The Community Sub-projects component will be essentially a continuation o f the work program under
the CWP I, with some significant modifications inapproach and procedures. Among the changesto
             but
be introducedare the following:
Poverty-Targeting: The adoption o f a sub-project scoring and ranking systemwill terminate the de-facto
`one sub-project per commune' rule implemented under the CWP I.Poverty targeting under the CWP 11
will take place at the regional level. The distribution o ffunding byqark will be determined basedon
poverty coefficients and population. ADF had already developed a targeting mechanismbased on
available arable land(for ruralareas) and the unemployment rate (for urbanareas), which is beingused
to target ADF's investments in2003. However, a better indicator will be available shortly: poverty
(headcount) indices obtained by applying econometric techniques to combine data from the 2002 Living
Standards Measurement Survey and the 2001populationcensus. This work, beingcarried out by
INSTAT incollaboration with the World Bank's researchdepartment, will result inpoverty indices for
all qarks and municipalities, and possibly communes as well. For ADF investments startingin2004, the
distribution o fresources will be determined by substituting a headcount index for the indicators currently
beingused.
Community Participation: Within the CWP I,          community participation shouldhave beenassuredby
requiring that every sub-project establish a Users' Committee. This provision didnot prove to be very
effective, as Users' Committees often were not very representative and at times didn't function at all.
Therefore a different approach i s envisaged under the CWP II,      startingwith increasedparticipation in
sub-project identification and the commencement o f a process to ensure consultation o f and monitoring
bythe beneficiaries. To this enda variety o fchangesare envisaged, includingthe following:
First,ADF's capacity to promoteparticipationwill be strengthenedby increasingthe numbero fADF's
"social inspectors" and byprovidingtraining to ADF staff. While this i s expected to strengthen
participatory processesthroughout ADF's areas o fintervention, inaddition ADF will pilot an approach
to work more intensively with communities inthe areas o f local development planning and participatory
monitoring and evaluation. These activities are described below under the Local Government and
Community Capacity BuildingComponent.
Second, the process o f identifyingsub-projects will be revisedto strengthen bothparticipation andthe
social impact o f sub-projects. This will be a gradual process since ADF has already identifiedpriorities



                                                      - 23 -

throughout the country. However, as new activities are identified(because priorities change or because
they have already been addressed) the processwill be strengthenedso that inthe latterpart o f
implementation ADF's work programs will have a much stronger basis incommunity participation. This
process i s describedunder "Procedures for Sub-project Implementation" below.
Third, communities will be askedto constitute a Consultationand MonitoringGroup (CMG) composed
o f at least three elected community representatives. The CMG will play a liaisonor interface function
between the community and bothlocalgovernment and ADF. This group will differ from the Users'
Committee inbeing smaller and more intune with the decentralization policy. Thus, for example, rather
than assuming responsibility for maintenance, the CMG will be in position to intervene and advocate if
it saw that the communewas not adequately addressingthe needs for maintenance.
And fourth, each community will be requiredto prepare apre-feasibility study or identificationreport,
which will also serve as a vehicle for strengthening andmeasuring community participation. Itwill
explain:

0        The process usedfor sub-project selection at community level, including the appointment of
         community representatives.
0        What local associations exist inthe commune/municipalityand the extent to which they were
         consulted inthe sub-project selection process at both the community and the
         commune/municipality level.
0        How the beneficiaries, including any local associations involved, expect to be associatedwith
         each step o f the sub-project, including the environmental assessment as well as the procedures
         that will be adopted to ensure this.
0        How beneficiarieswill participate in sub-project operation and maintenance, including what
         formal responsibilities they will take-on, ifany.
0        How the sub-project will affect vulnerable groups (e.g., women, ethnic minorities).
0        What benefits are expected, including type, quantity or extent, and time.
More Formal Responsibility of Local Governmentsin Sub-project Design and Implementation: Local
governments will have more responsibility in sub-project implementation, from sub-project selection
onwards. The Designer will be selected and contracted by the commune/municipality itself, using
ADF-approved standard contract models and with support and advise from ADF. The design will be
prepared by the Designer under the direct supervision o f the commune/municipality and include the
environmental assessment and productiono fthe environmentalmonitoringand mitigationplan (EMMP).
While this i s likely to prove to be difficult inthe many communes that lack the necessarytechnical staff,
ADF will be able to help the communesto get technical support, either directly or byarranging for
support from other governmental institutions.
More Integrated Local Planning (Local Development Plans LDP): Under the CWP I,
                                                               -                            each
sub-project was selected on its own merits ina relatively isolatedmanner, with little or no attention to
either integrated local development or to long-termperspectives. Inorder to stimulate integrated
planningand sub-project selection, under the CWPI1eachcommune will be encouragedto prioritize
sub-projects accordingto agreedcriteria and as a pre-cursor o fthe development o f an outline LDP. The
preparation o flocal development plans will be encouraged by allowingadditional resourcesto be
providedto communes that prepare such plans. ADF will organize capacity buildingand training to help
buildcapacity for local development planning(see the discussion o fthe LocalGovernment and
Community Capacity BuildingComponent below).




                                                     - 24 -

WorksSupervision and Quality-Control While the quality o fworks fundedbyADF has beengenerally
quite good, nonetheless works supervision is a key area for improvement. To this endthe following
measureswill be implemented:

0       More effective designer/supervisor presence on site duringworks implementation-- inthose
         cases where the designedsupervisor is from Tirana, the designer will be requiredto have a local
        representative for routine supervision duties;
0       A better definitiono fworks supervision requirements and standards-- a detailedsupervision
        program for each site will be drafted, including frequency o f visits, and apermanent presence
        duringthe most importantphases ofthe works will berequired;
0       Random supervision control visits and materials quality checking by ADF inspectors will be
        undertaken more frequently; annual independent extemal technical audits o fworks samples will
        also be carried out;
0       Active participation o fthe CMG inmonitoring the design and supervision;
0       More technical tests, especially on-site andor laboratoryproofs on the quality o f materials;
0       The frequency o fworks supervision and quality will be evaluated and recorded inthe MIS for
        each sub-project;
0       A longer periodbeforethe final hand-over ofthe sub-project; and
0       Monitoringo fpost-construction operations and maintenance and environmental impacts during
        and after construction.
Sub-project Design: The introduction o f a `preliminary design' step for each sub-project, formally
approved by all stakeholders, will further reduce mistakes and difficulties. Formal comments andor
approval o f design will be requiredat each successivestep by the communeimunicipality, with support
from ADF staff. The design will include provisions and detailedterms o freference for the design o f the
works, environmentalinputs, supervision and management o f operations and maintenance. The level o f
design supervision quality will be evaluated against agreed terms o f reference for each sub-project and
recorded inthe MIS; effective design supervision quality will also be evaluated and recordedfor each
sub-project as part o f the evaluation o f ADF inspectors' performance.
Environment and Other Safeguard Issues: Under the CWP I1the mechanisms to evaluate the
environmental andsafeguards (notably Cultural Property and Involuntary Resettlement) impact o f
sub-projects will be strengthened. To this end detailedinstructions for environmental assessments,
environmental mitigation andmonitoring plans have beenprepared and disseminated incountry as has a
policy framework matrix to address potential minor impacts related to land acquisition.
Preparation and Useof the WorkProgram: ADF will annually update the list o f the current priorities
for each commune/municipality inits "priorities" book and database, basedon the same objective criteria
suggestedfor prioritizing sub-projects at commune/municipality level. This indicative list will provide
the grounds onwhich each communelmunicipality will be requested to confirm or modify its first priority
before the preparation o fthe relative sub-project work plan, and include the possibility to have social
services inaddition to the traditional civil works sub-projects.
GlobalStrategyfor Operation and Maintenance: O&M provisions will be improvedinboththeir
operational and theirfinancial aspects. As far as the operational aspects are concemed, the general
strategy will consist of integrating the global concept o f O&M at each stage ofthe project preparation
and execution process:

0       identification at the village level: definitiono f the principles o f operation and o f financial
        sustainability;
0       decision at the commune level :including the definition o fthe extent o fthe commune's role in
        the future O&M plan;


                                                     - 25 -

0        feasibility: including an estimate o fmaintenancerequirements, costs, and cost-recovery schemes;
0        design: specifically taking into account o f O&M and environmental requirements; elaboration o f
         a detailed O&M plan and environmental impact mitigation andmonitoring plans; and
0        execution: advice to the local community and commune staff about the technical, organizational,
         and managerial elements o f O&M tasks, including financial management.
ADF will help the communes andmunicipalities elaborateplans for operations andmaintenance within
their effective financial possibilities. ADF will also help the commune/municipality monitor
implementation. Such O&M plans will focus on, but not be limitedto, new ADF-funded sub-projects.
Maintenance o f ADF-funded sub-projects will be integrated into maintenance plans for all
commune/municipality infrastructure.
As far as thefinancial aspectsare concerned, aprioritywill be to identifymorepreciselythe futureusers
and beneficiaries o f the sub-project, as well as their possible contributions to operations and
maintenance, either via user charges, manual contributions to low s h l l tasks, etc. Such identification
shouldbe undertaken from the first steps o f sub-project identification andselection and should be
regularly reviewedduringthe design stages.
StrengthenedLinkage to SectoralStrategies: The above activities will be conceived while keeping in
mindthe national sectoral strategies. For instance,roads sub-projects will be coordinated with the
current roadmaintenance strategy; water supply sub-projects with the water supply strategy; and social
services activities with the policy beingdevelopedunder the Social Services Delivery Project. To this
endADF regularly consults with its counterparts inthe sectoral ministries (normally the department
responsible for works).
SocialServices Sub-projects: Under the Supplemental Credit o f the first CWP, ADF experimented with
financing a small numbero f social service delivery sub-projects (mostly after school programs for
youth). Beneficiary assessments showed these programs to be quite popular. Underthe CWP I1this
program will not continue as a separate component. However, ADF will allow the financing o f service
activities associatedwith the sites rehabilitatedwith ADF hnding. To this endADF plans to experiment
with approximately six such programs associatedwith community centers that ADF will rehabilitate in
communalcenters. As a pilot activity these will be inaddition to priorities that have already been
identifiedbyADF andwill be selectedonthe basis ofcommunity interest. Programs at such centers,
which couldinclude inter alia activities for youth or the elderly, will be contracted out to service NGOs
following the procedures already developed underthe social services delivery component o fthe first
CWP. Ifthese pilot activities prove to be equally popular, such projects will be added to the menuo f
activities that communities could select as priorities for intervention.
It shouldbe noted that suchactivities will be complementary to the social service delivery sub-projects
financed under the IDA-financed Social Services DeliveryProject (SSDP). They will be indifferent
geographical areas and ADF will maintain close contact with the management o fthe SSDP. In
particular, as noted above, ADF will ensure that such activities remain well synchronized with the social
services delivery policy currently under development under the SSDP.


Procedurefor Sub-project Implementationunder the CWPI1

A. Procedurefor those sub-projectsalready identifiedat projecteffectiveness:
     The objective o f this procedure i s to ensure community participation in each sub-project from the
     earliest opportunity, to identify criteria that may be usedinPM&E and to ensure mitigation o f
     environmental impacts.



                                                     - 26 -

    Unless mentioned otherwise the work i s to be supervisedmanagedby eachcommune, monitored and
    assistedby ADF.

1. Conduct awareness activities relevant to CWP IIat qark and commune-level, includingahalf-day
   workshop to introduce the concept o f development planning and its role inprioritising sub-projects,
   andthe increased responsibilities o f localgovernment for sub-project design, implementationand
   prioritisation. (ADF)
2. Ineach community:

   a) Conduct awarenessactivities about the CWP II,     changedprocedures, PM&E and provide an
       introductionto local development planning. (ADF,assisted by Commune)

   b) Discuss and agree uponcommunity andcommune planningand responsibilitiesfor the
       sustainable O&M o f the sub-project.

   c) Identifythe benefits expected from the sub-project and their timeframe for realization, for use in
       PM&E.
   d) Describe the role ofthe ConsultationandMonitoringGroup (CMG) andarrange the selection of
       the members.

   e)  Collect the environmental data requiredand conduct a feasibility stage environmental assessment
       (EA),with the CMG, andprepare anEnvironmentalMonitoringandMitigationPlan(EMMP) in
       conjunction with the sub-project designer, for implementationby the construction supervisor (at
       no extra cost to the client or ADF).
3. Ensure immediate implementationo f any outstanding formal agreementsthat will normally be
   requiredprior to commencement o f sub-project design underthe CWP 11and implementationofthe
   community participationprocedures. Halt design untilthese agreementsare achieved and the
   procedures are inplace.
B. Procedure for those sub-projects not already identified at project effectiveness:
    Inadditionto the objectives definedunder (A) above, the objective ofthisprocedure is to introduce
   the concept o fprioritizingsub-projects at the qark level according to some agreed objective criteria,
   preferably inaccordancewith local development objectives, without substantially affecting the
   Work Plan.
   Unless mentionedotherwise the work i s to be supervisedmanaged by each commune, monitored and
   assistedbyADF.

1. As required, conduct the awarenessactivities detailedinA.1. (ADF)
2. Confirmthat the priority sub-project ineachcommune remains as defined and isjustified under the
   revisedcriteria. The reason(s) for thejustification shouldbe stated formally. Any sub-project that i s
   no longer the priority sub-project for a commune or cannot bejustified accordingto the new criteria
   should be removedfrom the work program.
3. Providedat least o fthe two o fthe three sub-projects suggestedto ADF by the Qark Council as
   suitable for implementationremain suitable for inclusion inthe work program, go immediately to (5),
   otherwise go to B.4.
4. Preparea revisedlist o fone priority sub-project per commune for considerationbythe Qark Council.
   Eachcommune that hada sub-project removed from the list duringB.2 should replace it by a suitable
   one selectedfrom the ADF workbook.



                                                 -27-

5. Usingthe revised list o f sub-projects and the agreedprioritization criteria for the CWP 11,the Qark
   Council should select three new sub-projects that it considers suitable for implementation. The
   choices shouldbejustified according to the agreedcriteria, or as otherwise agreedwith the
   communes andADF. (qark, assisted by communes andADF)
6. For the first of the two or three suggestedagreed sub-projects:
       Conduct awarenessactivities about the CWP 11, changedprocedures, andPM&E, andprovide an
       introductionto local development planning. (ADF, assisted by the commune)
       Confirm that the sub-project remains the community's priority. Ifit is not go to the next selected
       sub-project and start at (a) again (or go to B.7 ifthis is the last o f the suggestedagreed
       sub-projects), otherwise go to (c).
       (to be repeatedas appropriate instages (c)   - (e) and acted on accordingly).
       Discuss community and commune planning and responsibilities for the sustainable O&M o f the
       sub-project.
       Identifythe benefits expectedfrom the sub-project andtheir timeframe for realization, for use in
      justifying the sub-project and inpost-completionPM&E.
       Describe the role o f the CMG and arrange the selection o f the members.
       Collect the environmental data requiredat the identification stage and arrange for the feasibility
       stage environmentaldata collection and assessment.
       Provided that the sub-project remains the community's priority and i s environmentally
       acceptable, enter the sub-project inthe work program and ensure that the formal agreements
       requiredare inplace prior commencing design. Ifnot, go to the next suggestedsub-project and
       start at B.6 (a) again.
7. Ifthe suggestedagreed sub-projects are no longer the priority intheir respective communities or are
   unacceptable according to other agreedcriteria, remove themfrom the retumto B.5.
8. Put the selected sub-project into the work programandprepare the TORfor the design, the EA and
   preparationo fthe EMMP, etc.
C. Suggestedprocedurefor preparing future WorkPlans:
   Inadditionto the objectives definedunder(A)and (B)above, the objective ofthis procedure is
   introduce the concept o f bottom-up identification o f sub-projects, prioritisingthem at both the
   commune and qark levels according to some agreed objective criteria, preferably inaccordance with
   local development objectives.
   Unless mentionedotherwise the work i s to be supervisedmanaged by each commune, monitored and
   assistedbyADF.

1. Visit those sub-projects confirmedas priority sub-projects (one per commune) that were not visited
  under (B):

   a) Conduct awarenessactivities about the CWP 11,changed procedures, andPM&E and provide an
       introduction to local development planning. (ADF, assisted by the commune)

  b) Confirmthat the sub-project remains the community's priority. Ifit is not go C.2, otherwise go to
       (c>-
       (to be repeatedas appropriate instages (c) - (e) and acted on accordingly).


                                                   - 28 -

    c) Discuss community and commune planning and responsibilities for the sustainable O&M o f the
        priority sub-project.

    d) Identify the benefits expected from the sub-project, to usetojustify andprioritizethe sub-project
        at the commune and qark levels, and to use inpost-completion PM&E.

    e)  Describe the role o f the CMG and arrange the selection o f the members.
    f ) Collect the environmental data requiredat the identification stage and arrange for the feasibility
        stage environmental data collection and assessment.

    g) Provided that the sub-project remains the community's priorityand is environmentally
        acceptable, prepare it for consideration at the qark level. Also arrange for the formal agreements
        required prior to commencement o f sub-project design. Otherwise go to C.2 below.
2. Ineach commune that has a sub-project inthe work program for the current year and incommunes
    where the priority sub-project has changedor i s environmentally unacceptable (see C.1):

    a) Ineach community inthe commune that already has a sub-project inthe ADF workbook follow
        the procedure described inC.1above. Prepare sufficient information to allow it to be
        selectedprioritized at the commune level.

    b) Where a new sub-project has to be identified,assistthe community to select possible
        sub-projects and evaluate each o f themaccording to community demand, especially by
        consideringthe benefits expected, the overall environmental impacts, etc. Help community
        members to select their priority sub-project and tojustify the selection.

    c) Ask each commune to select its priority sub-project by evaluating each o f the proposed
        sub-projects against the overall development objectives and other agreedcriteria. Present the
        chosen sub-project to the Qark Council for prioritization alongside the sub-projects selectedfrom
        other communes (see C.l),   andjustify the selection to both the Qark Council andthe
        communities inthe commune, according to the agreedcriteria.
3. Ask the Qark Council to select the three sub-projects it considers shouldbe investigatedfor
    implementation. The choices shouldbe suitablyjustified accordingto the agreed criteria (see also
    B.5).
4. According to the results o fthe investigation, put the selected sub-project into the work program and
    prepare the TORfor the design, the EA and preparationo fthe EMMP, etc.


Project Component2 US$l.iO million
                      -
Capacity Building
The Capacity Buildingcomponent will finance training and technical assistance to strengthen the
capacity o f local government, communities, and ADF staff. With respect to local government and
communities, the objective will be to promote processeso fparticipatory planning, which will be
expected to bothimprove the developmental impact o fADF-financed sub-projects and support the
government's on-going decentralization process. With respect to ADF staff, the objective will be to
strengthen ADF's capacity to support local government and community capacity buildingas well as to
improve the quality of ADF's interventions.
Reviews o fADF's past performance projects have identifiedseveral areas where the capacity o f local
government, communities, andADF staff shouldbe improved. Broadly they comprise:
    (i)Capacitybuildingforlocalgovernment(LG)technicaldepartments,localserviceproviders,and
        contractors to enable themto better monitor and manage sub-project implementation, supervision


                                                  -29-

         and maintenance, procurement issues, etc.;
    (ii) Institutionaland humancapacity buildingfor local governments inorder to strengthen local
         participatory planning and resourcemanagementcapacities;
    (iii)Capacity buildingfor communities inorder to strengthen community empowerment through an
         improvedprocess o f civic engagement, community mobilization aiming at providingtools for
         formulatingvillage level actionplans through aprocess o fneedsand priorities identification,
         ideas formulation, incentives buildingand discussions o fneededresources; and
    (iv)Technical training for ADF staffto improvetheir capacity insuchareas as: techniques o f
         community development, the supervision o f tenders, new construction techniques, quality
         enhancement, sub-project supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and the delivery o f training.
To address these needsthis component will include three programs: (i) buildingfor ADF staff;
                                                                            capacity
(ii) governmentandcommunitycapacitybuilding,and(iii)
    local                                                           aparticipationpilot program. The
capacity buildingactivities will emphasizehands-on, "on-the-job" training. Oftenthis training will be
informal, provided, inthe case o f local governments and communities by ADF staff or contractors
(NGOs andor consultants) intheir on-going contacts with stakeholders, and, inthe case o fADF, by
ADF's technical assistants. At other times training will be more formal, carriedout through (e.g.,)
workshops. However formal training will be expected to be closely linked to involvement inADF's
sub-project cycle, so that it will immediatelybe put to practical use.
Capacity Buildingfor ADF Staff. The programto strengthen ADF's capacity will focus largely on
ADF's Inspectors and those involved inmonitoringand evaluation. The Social Inspectors will benefit
from additional training to buildtheir capacity to effectively work with communities, monitor the work
done at the village and commune levels, and supervise and evaluate progress o fthe pilot PM&E exercise
inselectedqarks. The general programofcapacity buildingfor ADF staff will include the following:

    Technical Training to Improve Sub-project Effectiveness. Much o f this training will focus on
    buildingunderstanding o fthe newproceduresinADF's revisedoperational manual. Thiswill
    include the procedures relatedto environmental assessment and land acquisition. Training will also
    be provided to strengthen technical knowledge inthe areas o f ADF intervention. Such training will
    be linkedto sectoral strategieswhere these exist or when they are developed.

    Monitoring and Evaluation. Training will cover the structure and content o fthe MIS, with a view
    to facilitating more effective use o f this tool and standardization o fthe internal procedures for data
    processing andreporting.
    Procurement. ADF staff will be givenknowledge o f the improvedprocurement procedures to be
    adopted under the CWP II.Inaddition, ADF's Regional Inspectors andtwo procurement staff will
    be trained to be able to provide training inprocurement to staffo flocal communes and municipalities
    and contractors.
    Dissemination. ADF staffwill be taught means o f effectively disseminating informationabout the
    project through different media (newspaper, TV, radio, brochures).

    Outreach and Community Mobilization Methods. The staffo f ADF's infrastructure department
    will receive basic training intechniques o f community development. Inaddition, ADF's Social
    Inspectors will benefit from more intensive training inthe following areas to buildtheir capacity for
    their support and monitoringrole and to enable them to serve as "trainers" of local NGOs, CBOs, and
    local communes: (i)  communication techniques: focusing on community outreach andinteraction
    (group discussion, teambuildingtechniques, etc.) and preparation and dissemination o f information
   material (including report preparation, publications, computer programs for presentations, etc.); (ii)


                                                     - 30 -

      monitoring and evaluation: focusing onthe promotion o fparticipatory approachesto M&E; (iii)
      basics of appliedsocial analysis: designo fbeneficiary, needs, and impact assessments and
      qualitative methods o fdata collection (e.g., focus groups andrapidrural appraisal techniques); and
      (iv) partnership and cooperation techniques: including the facilitation of interactionwithin
      communities andbetween communities and local government.

      Local Development Planning. ADF staff will be introducedto the basics o f local development
      planning and territorial spatial planningtechniques, including criteria for identification o fpriorities
      andmeans o fpromotingparticipatory approachesto planning.
      Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation. ADF staff will be introducedto the principles o f PM&E.
Technical assistants will play a keyrole insupporting the program for buildingADF's capacity. Inthe
past ADF has made extensive use o ftechnical assistance, but their role has rarely been one o fbuilding
capacity. Indeed, far two often their role has beenexecutive, substitutingfor ADF capacity. Under the
CWP 11this will change, as a result o f changes bothintheir terms o f reference and inthe time frames in
which they are employed. All internationaltechnical assistance financed underthe CWP I1will be
employed for very limitedperiods o f time or, inthose cases where longer assistancei s desirable, the
employment will be intermittent. Technical assistants will be expected to train counterparts; repeat visits
will be for the purpose ofverifyingthat the counterparts are performing adequately and providingthem
with additional mentoring.
It i s envisaged that ADF will contract four internationally recruited technical assistants, as follows:

      Social Development Specialist. A social development specialist with experience incommunity
      development, CDD, decentralization will assist ADF on a periodic basis over aperiodo f seven
      months inthe first three years (6 months duringthe first year and the rest spreadover the subsequent
      two years, as needed). The TA shouldhave experience incommunity development and local
      development planning. S/He will assist ADF inbuildingup its capacity for the overall coordination
      o f activities pertaining to sub-project identification, participatory monitoring and evaluation, local
      development planning, reporting. The TA will also help ensure that all activities and monitoring
      carried out bythe social inspectors and the M&Edepartment are adequately harmonized andmatched
      with the work o f Technical and RegionalInspectors.
      Project TechnicalAdviser. A civil engineer with experience incommunity development will be
      hiredfor no more than 11(non-consecutive) months to buildthe capacity o f ADF's Infrastructure
      Department insuch areas as sub-project supervision, new constructiontechniques, and quality
      enhancement.
      Finance Specialist. A technical assistantwill be hiredfor 4 months to support the production of
      FinancialManagement Reports.
      Local DevelopmentPlanningSpecialist. Technical assistancefor capacity buildingfor local
      development planning and participatory monitoring and evaluation will be provided duringthe
      launch o fthe pilot exercise and periodically thereafter for an estimated total o f 5 months. This TA
      will monitor the overall launching ofthe pilot PM&E process and trainADF field staff. S/He will
      also follow up the training o ftrainers to be carried out under the pilot. Hidhercontract should start
      inconjunctionwiththe Social Development Specialist inorder to guaranteefollow-up of the local
      planningactivities once this short termTA is completed. More specifically, the consultant will (i)
      assist the overall capacity buildingexercise linkedto development o f local plans and PM&E carried
      out by localNGOsunder the pilot program; (ii)       develop, inconjunction with ADF, specific TOR for
      the localNGO responsible for launching the pilot program, and (iii)     be responsible for carrying out a
     training needs assessment and explore possible synergies with the existingsimilar capacity programs



                                                        -31 -

      currently beingcarriedout by differentdonors.
LocalGovernmentand CommunityCapacityBuilding. A largepart o fthe Capacity Building
component will address the needso fboth localgovernments (communes, municipalities, and qarks) and
communities, with the objectives o fimprovingtheir planning skills, by initiatingan institutional and
humancapacity buildingprocess. This process should strengthen the capacity for participatory planning
and resource management, support stakeholder and community empowerment, and strengthen o f local
government-community relationships. As such it will contribute to the Government's strategy o f
decentralization. Some o f this training will be providedinformallyas ADF's Inspectors work with local
governments. But local or regional workshops will also be envisaged, linked to ADF's sub-project cycle.
Such more formal training could beprovidedby ADF staffor subcontracted to appropriate NGOs or
consulting firms. The participationpilot described below will also contribute to these objectives; as it i s
scaledup it will be essentially mergedwith the local government and community capacity building
program.
Training at the level o f local government will include (butnot necessarily be limitedto) the following:

0     Basics o f Parrticipatory LocalDevelopment Planning. Such training will be deliveredto technical
      staff (head o f departments) o f local governments and could be attended by elected officials as well.
      Specific training areas will include: (a) basics of applied social analysis for data collection and
      analysis; (b) participatory methods planningand monitoring and evaluation (which should include a
      focus on gender issues); (c) managemento fhumanresources, including sector coordination and
      human resources coordination (including with localNGOs and local consultants, etc.); and (d)
      planning for sustainability, including fundraising techniques and resources coordination.
0     Procurement and contract administration. Technical staff will receive in-depthtraining, while
      elected members will receive training designed to improve general knowledge and information about
      the subject, especially with respect to businessefficiency andpublic accountability.
Training to local communities will be routinely providedbyADF technical staffeachtime a community
i s visited. Members of Consultationand Monitoring Groups (CMG) could also be groupedto attend
regional workshops andor could be invitedto attend training at the level o f local government. Training
will be focused on needs relatedto the various phases o fthe sub-projects, especially implementation,
supervision, maintenance as well as participatory techniques for community empowerment.
ParticipationPilotProgram: While ADF's activities have always beendemand-driven, ADF has
nonethelessconcluded that its effectiveness would be enhanced ifbeneficiary participation could be
strengthenedand ifthe sub-projects it funds could be integral parts o f accepted local development plans
(LDPs). To this end, under the CWP 11,ADF intendsto develop a methodology for promoting
participatory local development planning and monitoringand evaluation at the village and commune
levels. The vehicle for developingthis methodology will be the Participation Pilot Program.
The ParticipationPilot Programwill take place in3 to 6 sites in3 qarks. Specific sites will be identified
basedon village and commune interest as well as usingcriteria described inAnnex 12on Participatory
MonitoringandEvaluation. The pilot will develop a methodology for an inclusive participatory process
that mobilizes communities -includingwomen, youth andminority groups -and local government.
Once the pilot i s completed, results are analyzed, and it i s considered a valuable tool by communities and
ADF, it is expectedthat this methodologywill berolledout to other communities as standard practicein
the thirdyear o fthe CWP IIimplementation.
The ParticipationPilot Programwill be implemented by an experienced NGOthat will develop a
methodology, test it ina first site and train and supervise qark level NGOpartners (see Annex 12). The
leadNGOwill have experience inworking ina grassroots manner with communities to develop local
development plans as well as have experience buildingthe capacity o f local partners. This will allow


                                                     - 32 -

ADF to extendits reachat the community levelwithout overburdening its existing organizational
structure. The methodology adopted by the NGOs will be tailored to leaming about inclusive
participatory planningand also balancingthe needfor a streamlined process which could later be adopted
on a wider-scale by ADF.
The processo flocal development planningwill involve arange o f stakeholders (e.g., local government,
civic organizations, commune or qark level researchorganizations, citizens, media, etc.). It will include
participatory monitoring andevaluation thereby allowing villages and communes to track their progress
toward their own objectives. Itwill also allow villages and communes to share among themselves their
experience with LDPs as well as ways to achieve specific development outcomes. The process o f local
development planningcan be expected to take between 5-15 days ineach site over a periodo f 6-12
months per commune. Flexibility shouldbe maintained about the timeframe to allow for considerable
consultation at the village level and a negotiated process at the commune level. A reasonable timeframe
i s also important to allow for appropriate training and facilitation o f the process.
The Participation Pilot Program will provide an orientationto localdevelopment planningto Qark-level,
Commune-level and village leaders. Inits work at the community level, it will adopt a leamingby doing
approach so that the training will result intrained local community facilitators and the initial steps of a
LDP. NGOs will remain involvedthroughout the process to provide directiodsupervision, assist in
facilitation, and to monitor and document the process and the progress toward objectives. Eachvillage
will be encouraged to include commune level representatives inthe discussions o f village level plans to
buildsupport prior to submission at the commune level. Eachparticipatingvillage will present and
represent their plans to the commune level and these plans will be usedas the basis for a negotiated
commune level LDP. The process o f negotiationand synthesis still needsto be determined and it is
feasible that each commune will propose its own. However, the pilot will insist on representation of
villages inthese discussions to encouragetransparency inthe process. Negotiation and compromise will
also be encouraged to avoid communal LDPs becomingsimply compilations o f village level plans.
Training will also be provided at this stage to facilitate the process. Qark representatives will be
consulted throughout the process andwill be kept informed about the overall local level capacity building
process. Regional focal points andNGO networks already involvedinthe ongoing NSSEDprocess will
be part o f a consultative process.
The pilot will begin with a site inthe central zone o fthe country bythe leadNGO. This site will beused
as a training site where the methodologywill be tested and piloted duringa training for qark level NGOs.
Based on their learning o fparticipatory planningtechniques (including gender awareness, facilitation,
data collection, reporting, etc.), qark levelNGOswill work inselected communities under the
supervision and guidance o f the leadNGO. Thus the pilot i s sequencedto allow learning from a first site
and continued capacity buildingo fregional NGOs throughout the pilot. Local governments will receive
training intopics that they identifythrough the LDP process- i.e., public management topics from
resource allocation or infrastructure operations andmaintenance to land registration. The village and
commune level government will be encouragedto use the LDP process to plan for all their resources, not
only those they expect to receive from ADF and other donors.
The pilot will conclude inthe thirdyear o fCWP 11implementationwith a workshop bringingtogether all
stakeholdersto share their experience andprovide feedback about the process andthe value o f LDPs.
The results will bewritten upand disseminated throughthe media andto local governments to foster
interest inthe activities.




                                                    - 33 -

ProjectComponent3 US$1.90 million
                        -
Project ImplementationSupport
This component will support the implementation of the CWP Ilby ADF by financing a portion o f ADF's
operating costs (maintenance and operation o f equipment procuredor usedunder the project; salaries
paid to ADF staff, other than civil servants' salaries, hired for purposes o f the project; and consumable
office supplies, communications, fuel, travel and per diem allowances). Internal ADF staff,
administration, and finance procedures are governed byADF's Regulations (Administrative and Financial
Manual), which will be at all times satisfactory to IDA. Operatingcosts will be funded on a declining
basis over the life o f the project. A significant change from the similar component under the first CWP
will be to increase the number o f Social Inspectors to strengthenADF's capacity to intervene effectively
at the community level. Another key difference i s that technical assistance will be designed so that the
executive role o f TA will decrease virtually immediately, particularly in the fields o f sub-project design
and works supervision, to be replacedby increasedtechnical advice, training, and advice on drafting
andor coordinating with strategies inother sectors.




                                                     - 34 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated ProjectCosts
                                  ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project



                                                                                                                                               19.20
Capacity Building                                                                                  0.60                  0.40                   1.oo
Project Implementation Support                                                                      1.70                 0.10                   1.80
Project Preparation Facility                                                                       0.26                  0.24                   0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                                                               21.76                  0.74                 22.50
PhysicalContingencies                                                                               1.66                 0.04                   1.70
Price Contingencies                                                                                0.00                  0.00                   0.00
                                         Total Project Costs1                                     23.42       I          0.78                 24.20
                                   Total Financing Required                                       23.42                  0.78                 24.20

  1
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.5 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 21.7 (US$m). Therefore. the projcct cost sharing ratio is 69.12
  % of total projcct cost net o f taxcs.




                                                                  - 35 -

                           Annex 4: Cost EffectivenessAnalysis Summary
                           ALBANIA Second CommunityWorks Project


 Summaryof benefits and costs:
 Cost-effectiveness of ADF
Micro-projects to be financedunder the project are expected to yield higheconomic returns, since ADF
will finance simple but cost-effective social and economic infrastructure. Annual beneficiary
assessmentscarried out since 1998 indicate a highlevel o f overall satisfaction o fbeneficiaries
concerning selection o fprojects and quality o fwork, and cite increasesintrade, economic activity,
agricultural production, and access to employment as the most significant benefits. Other reported
benefits include improvements inthe quality o f rural life and restoringa sense o fvillage community.
Historically, roads have constituted over half o f ADF's sub-projects. Roads are popular both because
they tend to have large numbers ofbeneficiaries andbecauseaccess tends to be apreconditionfor other
development activities. The benefits cited above clearly apply to roads sub-projects. A recently
constructed rural roadvisited duringproject appraisal i s illustrative. Although only some 10 km. from a
large town, prior to rehabilitation o f the road the village was only accessibleby foot or animal. Since the
road was rehabilitated a year and a half ago, the commune has rehabilitatedthe school, villagers have
rehabilitatedtheir houses, public transport now serves the village regularly, and several businesses have
been established inthe village center. None o f this would have been possible without the road.
Water supply projects have beenthe secondmost popular area o f intervention, constituting about one
fifthofADF's sub-projects. Suchprojects have significant impact interms ofhealthandtime-saving.
Withrespectto health, substantial effects are foundparticularly when switching from surface waters to
wells or pipedwater. These effects can be reinforced through education about possible water borne
diseases and how to prevent them, etc. As for time-savings, water projects get water sources closer to
users, which notably benefits women and girls who are traditionally responsible for fetching water.
Considerable effort has been put over the last few years into evaluatingADF's cost effectiveness. Not
surprisingly,this hasprovendifficult. A World Bankstudyundertakenin2001 (the first study to
conduct a systematic, cross-country impact analysis o f social funds) found that comparative analysis o f
cost-efficiency i s rife with difficulties. For example, when social funds are the only major source o f
community-level investments ina given sector, findingvalid comparisons may not be possible. Inthe
case o fAlbania, ADF i s mainly rehabilitating infrastructure while most other available cost data refer to
either new construction costs or larger-size works (as opposed to the small size o f ADF-funded
sub-projects), making any comparisons questionable.
The ImplementationCompletion Report for the first CWP stated that:
        The average subproject cost per capita is reportedto be US$21. Operatingcosts (estimated at
         11%at appraisal) have dropped from 9 percent in 1997to 6.5 percent in2001. ADF pridesitself
        on the relatively low cost o f its operations. This feeling is generally sharedby all local
        stakeholders. However, ADF has never producedtypical unit costs for the most frequent o f its
        subprojects. This was partly due to the incomplete functioning o fthe MIS throughout most o f
        the project's life. With the MIS finally up andrunning,ADF shouldbe able to develop a full set
        o funit costs for future projects.
Despite the outlined shortcomings, we have attempted a comparisono f cost-effectiveness between the
ADF delivery mechanismandGovernment implementation. Giventhe methodological problems
involved, this comparison should only be treated as indicative.



                                                     - 36 -

The table below outlines unit prices for different types o fworks implemented by ADF throughout
Albania under different donors during the period 1999-2001 (ADFm i n gcosts and TA costs are not
included inthese figures).
         I.                              Nbin                    Total Average UnitCost Unitcost
                                  Unit sample     Total Cost     size    Size       (leks)    US$
          Rural roads asphalt      km         7    66,436,832       14      2.05 4,629,744     32,151
          Rural roads gravel       km        55    53,082,431    20.18      0.37 2,608,473     18,114
          Urbanroads               km         15  384,662,978     29.1      1.94 13,218,659    91,796
          Sewer                    km         13  204,162,524       30      2.31 6,798,619     47,213
          Buildingrehabilitation   m2         14  118,265,685     5507   393.36       21,475      149
          Water supply             km        24   242,217,399 106.86        4.45 2,267,953     15,750
          Irrigation               km         3    25,419,942       5.9     1.97 4,301,175     29,869
          Footbridge               m          3    14,634,811      170     55.67      87,628      609
          Brid es                  m          8   126,363,967      188     23.50    672,149     4,668
Cost comparators are only available for two types o f investments. The Ministry o f Public Works and
Tourism estimates inits "Infrastructure Design Manual and Cost Work Book" as a unit cost for asphalted
roads 3.5 mwide (similar to ADF rural roads) a cost o f 7.2 million leks per km. This i s 55% higher than
ADF'scost of4.6 million leks indicatedinthe above table, indicatingthat ADF deliversasphalted roads
more cost effectively than the line Ministry.
With respect to buildingrehabilitation, ADF's works may be comparedto the cost of constructionof
buildings fundedbythe National Housing Agency. NHA's average cost per squaremeter is 29,448 leks.
This is 37% higher than ADF's cost of21,475 leks.
Inadditiontotheunitcostcomparison, itcanbeexpectedthatADF'sprojectshaverelativelyhigher
benefits because they are basedon the priorities expressedby the local people. Since the key selection
criterion ineach commune has often been the `number o fbeneficiaries', it can also be assumedthat
ADF's projects' benefits are widely distributedinthe communities. Moreover, apart from any
consideration about unit costs, no other agency inAlbania has the capacity to cany out such work ina
demand-driven fashion (except on a much smaller scale).
Inthe future, although a full-scale economic analysis wouldnot becarriedout ex-ante, anumberofsteps
will betakento improve the screening of sub-projects with regardto their economic benefits ando f
ADF's cost effectiveness.
First,feasibility studies will be carriedout for eachproposed micro-project. Inaddition to the site
surveys and technicaVenvironmenta1reviews o fthe proposed infrastructure, technical, social, economic,
and financial criteria will be applied to eachtype o f infrastructure to assess the overall economic viability
o f the project. Inthat sense, a particular importance i s given by ADF to the number o fbeneficiaries in
each sub-project to ensure that economic benefits are widely spread.
Second, a cost database will be established and includedinthe MIS. The data base will recordthe actual
total costs andcost components o fcompleted micro-projects as well as different unit cost comparators.
These unitcosts can than be used as benchmark cost comparators to assess the estimated
cost-effectiveness o fmicro-projects inthe pipeline and to monitorthe development o fcost over time and
acrossregions, ensuringcost effectiveness o f individualmicro-projects.
Third, beneficiary impact assessmentsthroughout the life o fthe project will ascertain the impact o f
micro-projects on communities, and will enable ADF to gain a better understanding about who interms
o f gender, age, socioeconomic group, andvulnerable status i s actually benefiting.
Furthermore, as described in section C3, the World Bank plans to carry out a systematic ex-post



                                                    - 37 -

              I  Albania        Armenia         Bolivia      Honduras       Nicaragua      Peru

                  6.5%       I     10%      I     12%       1  13%       I    10%      I   7%    I

Inaddition, ADFnowhasregionalofficesthatenhanceitsabilitytoreachthetargetgroupsandassess
the needs o f groups that are not yet benefitingfrom ADF action

MainAssumptions:


Cost-effectivenessindicators:
Cost-effectiveness monitoring will include the following indicators:
    Average cost per each type o fmicro-project; and
    Unitcost indicators, examples ofwhichare listedbelow:

Micro-Projects                           Indicators
Roads                                    Cost per beneficiary, Cost per kilometer
Water and Sanitation                     Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unito fpipe length
Buildings                                Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unitarea




                                                   - 38 -

                               Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                        ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project



                                               IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                        I Year1  [ Year2   I  Year3  IYear4   I Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts           0.50      7.40       7.30    7.10      0.20    0.00   0.00
 RecurrentCosts             0.20      0.50       0.40    0.40      0.30    0.00   0.00
Total Project Costs         0.70      7.90       7.70    7.50      0.50    0.00   0.00


Total Financing             0.70      7.90       7.70    7.50      0.50    0.00   0.00    1
Financing
  IBRDllDA                  0.60      5.00       4.80    4.50      0.20   0.00    0.00
  Government                0.02      0.80       0.90    1.oo      0.20   0.00    0.00
      Central               0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00
      Provincial            0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00
  Co-financiers             0.02      0.70       0.60    0.60      0.01   0.00    0.00
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.00      0.70       0.70    0.70      0.00   0.00    0.00
Other                       0.00      0.80       0.80    0.70      0.02   0.00    0.00

Total Project Financing     0.64      8.00       7.80    7.50      0.39   0.43    0.00




                                          - 39*

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                         ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project

Procurement


All Bank-financed procurement will be conducted inaccordancewith the World BankGuidelines.
Procurement o f goods and works will follow the procedures o f the Bank Guidelines for Procurement
underIBRDLoans andIDACredits (January 1995as revisedinJanuary and August 1996, September
1997 andJanuary 1999). Procurement o f consulting services will follow the Bank guidelines for
Selectionand Employment o f Consultants byWorld Bank Borrowers (January 1997, as revisedin
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). A Generalprocurement notice (GPN) will be published
inDevelopment BusinessinJuly 2003. The GPNwill beupdatedannually for outstanding procurement.
A procurement planhas beenpreparedandwill beupdated every six months duringimplementation
Procurement Responsibility
The primary implementing agency will be the Albanian Development Fund(ADF). While ADF is
directly responsible for the procurement of technical assistance,the project beneficiaries, which are
municipalities and communes, will be responsible for conductingprocurement under sub-projects
(including goods, works, and social services).
Capacity of the ADF as ImplementingAgency
ADF was the implementing agency for the first Community Works Project (including its Supplemental
Credit). It has the requiredknowledge andexperience inWorld Bankprocurement procedures. ADF
staff dealing with procurement have been trained inWorld Bank procedures. The proposed project
represents a continuation o fpast support, buildingupon ADF's strengths and seehng to improve inthose
areas o f relative weakness. Inview o f the above, ADF i s expected to carry out the requiredprocurement
without any difficulty. Despite this, the overall procurement risk assessment for the project is rated"high
risk" because o f the overall risky environment for procurement inthe country.

Procurement arrangements:
The procurement methods and arrangementsapplicable to the various expenditure categories under the
project are summarized below and will be described inmore detail inADF's Operational Manual.
Sub-projects
The project consists of sub-projects which encompass infrastructure rehabilitation works (works
contracts are estimated to cost from US$lO,OOO    - $150,000with a sub-project ceilingof $100,000 for
rural works and $150,000 for urban works). Sub-projects may also include social services and goods.
The overall procurement will be conducted bythe sub-project beneficiaries, which are municipalities and
communes, under the close supervision o f the ADF. Given that this part o f the project will be
demand-driven, no specific contracts/packages are envisaged (see the Procurement Plan). Civil works
contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 will be procuredthrough National Competitive Bidding
(NCB), usingthe NCB documents which are a harmonization o f the European Commission's Practical
Guidewith the NCB documents o fthe World Bank.
Conditions for NCB: The following procedureswill be followed:
(i) invitationtobidshallbeadvertisedlocallyinregionalnewspapersandinatleasttwonational
newspaperswith wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission o fbids;
(ii) foreignbiddersshallnotbeprecludedfrombiddingandnopreferenceofanykindshallbegiven
to national bidders inthe biddingprocess. Government-owned enterprises inAlbania shall be permitted


                                                    -40-

to bidonly ifthey are legally and financially autonomous and operate under commercial law o fthe
Borrower;
(iii) biddingshallnotberestrictedtopre-registeredfirms;
(iv)     procuringentities shouldusethe biddingdocuments approved bythe Association prior to their
issue to bidders;
(v)      bids shall be openedinpublic inone location, immediatelyafter the deadline for submissiono f
bids inthe presence ofthe representativeso fbidders;
(vi)     bids shall not be rejected merely onthe basis o f comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence o fthe Association;
(vii)    a single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission o fbids;
(viii)   incaseoflessthan threeresponsivebids, allbidsmayberejected andnewbidsmaybe solicited
without prior concurrence o f the Association;
(ix)     post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated bidder; no bid shall be
rejectedat the time o fbidopening on qualification grounds;
(x)      bidders who contract as ajoint venture shall be heldjointly and severally liable;
(xi)     bidders maybe requiredto submit bidsecurities inan amount appropriate to the estimated value
o f the contract and ina form acceptable to ADF;
(xii)    before rejectingall bids and soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence o f the Association shall be
obtained;
(xiii)   contracts shall be awardedto the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive bidder who is
determined to be qualified to performinaccordance with pre-definedand pre-disclosed evaluation
criteria;
(xiv)    post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
and
(xv)     contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain appropriate price adjustment
provisions.

MinorWorks: Contracts estimated at less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract maybe procured
under lump-sum, fixedprice contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from at least three (3)
qualified domestic contractors inresponseto a written invitation. The invitationshall include a detailed
descriptiono fthe works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f
agreementacceptable to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the requiredwork, and
who has the experience and recoursesto complete the contract successfully.

Goods
International Shopping (IS), basedon comparingquotations obtained from at least three suppliers from
two eligible countries, will be used for contracts estimated less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.
For contracts estimated to cost lessthan US$50,000, National Shopping procedures, basedon comparing
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries, will be usedfor the
procurement o f office equipmentandcomputers.
Incompilinglistsofbidderswhowillbeinvitedtosubmitquotations forinformationtechnology
equipment under Internationalor National Shopping, the Borrower will shortlist only those firms which
have been listed as eligible to participate inProcurement o f Off-the-shelf InformationTechnology,
according to the relevant website maintainedbythe Bank (www.worldbank.org/htmI/opr/shop-IT).

ConsultingServices
Consultant services will be selected through I C (Individual Consultants) andConsultant's Qualifications
(CQ). Individual consultants will be selected basedon Part V o fthe Consultants Guidelines.




                                                   -41 -

Training
Training under the project will be implementedinaccordance with a training program that ADF will
prepare every six months and submit to the Bank for its acceptance before the program i s implemented.
Prior Review Thresholds:

1.        FirstNCB contract from eachbeneficiary.
ii. AllcontractswithconsultingfirmsestimatedtocostUS$lOO,OOO ormorepercontract(Partial
Review).
iii. AllconsultantcontractswithindividualsestimatedtocostUS$25,000ormorepercontract.
Post review ratio: Contracts which are not subject to prior review, will be subject to post review on a
selective basis. The ratio o f the ex-post review will be one in five contracts for goods, works, and
consulting services. The ex-post review will be conducted once a year and will be the responsibility of
the Procurement Specialist assigned to the project.

 Procurement methods (Table A)


                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)




I/Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f contracted
  staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
  to (i)managing the project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 42 -

                       Table AI: ConsultantSelectionArrangements(optional)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)




' Includingcontingencies

           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                 Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and Prior Review'




 1. Works                    Less than US$ 150,000 per
                                       contract
2. Goods                      Less than US$50,000 per                  N S
                                       contract                                        I
3. Services
 Firms                           From less than US$           CQ (Partial Review)
                                       100,000


 Individual                    More than US$25,000                     Ind.

                 Total value of contractssubject to prior review:
                          Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment:            High
     Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every six months
                                                                        (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                        for post-review/audits)

"Thresholds generallydiffer by countryandproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement" andcontactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                   -43-

Section1: Capacityof the ImplementingAgency inProcurement andTechnicalAssistance requirements
0  ADF shouldrevise the operational manual to incorporate the recommendations ofthe Institutionaland
   Management Review Report as well as the previous Ex-post Procurement Review recommendations. The
   World Bank shall review this manual carefully to ensure that it includes the necessaryimprovements inorde:
   to increase the transparency and efficiency and effectiveness o fthe system.

0  ADF hasagreedto take the necessarymeasuresto improve nationalcompetitive bidding(NCB) competition.
   Itwas agreedthat NCB tender notices will bepublishedintheregional newspapersas well, inadditionto
   two national newspapers. ADF will hold seminars for contractors on a regular basis to familiarize themwith
   the NCB requirements and to encouragethem to participate inNCB contracts inthe regions other than their
   O W .

e ADF shouldinclude inits training programunder the CWP I1training inprocurement for its procurement
   staff, includingthe Regional and District Inspectors. ADF should use the Regional Inspectors (it is
  proposed to change their title to RegionalADF Representative) for capacity building,includingprocurement
   training o f the staff of local communes and municipalities and contractors. For this purpose a
   train-the-trainer program for the Regional Inspectors and two procurement staff o f the ADF should be
   includedinthe training program.
e On the contract administrationside, it was agreedthat at the commune and municipalitylevel the
  responsibility of the heado f communelmunicipality shouldbe strengthened. All invoices shouldbe signed
   and submittedto the ADF District Inspector by the Heado f Commune within a givennumber o f days and no
  just bythe designer ofthe sub-project who also servesas the supervisor. Furthermore, the DistrictInspector
  who, upon receipt o f the invoice, inspects civil works and certifies completion o f works, should approve or
  reject such invoices within a prescribed number o f days.

0  This shouldalso apply to the ADF staff responsible for final approval o fthe invoice for payment as well as
   for the accountant. These prescribedtime standards shouldbe monitored and action taken ifthey are not
  respected.

0 The terms ofreference o fthe RegionalInspectors are vague andneeda complete revisionto strengthentheir
  current supervisory role andto reflect their new role o f capacity builder, etc.

0 ADF's reporting systemhasroomfor improvement also. For example, the Regional Inspectorsmake
  monthlyoral reports to ADF's Executive Committee. Inaddition to a written table showing the status o f the
   sub-projects and issues, it is recommendedthat ADF shouldprepare a reporting format for a briefwritten
  report explaining the current status o f implementationo fprojects, issues, and recommendations for resolvinl
  these issues.

0 Inadditionto theinternalqualitycontrolandinspectionsofsub-projects, anindependentengineeringfirm
  shouldbe hiredto periodically conduct technical audits o f a random sample o f completed sub-projects (fror
  all sources o fADF funding) to ensure that contractors have performedaccordingly to the contract
  specifications and that ADF supervision hasbeen satisfactory.

Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: CPAR was prepared
for this country inJanuary 2001
Are the biddingdocuments for the procurement actions o f the first year ready by board approval?
Yes X N o




                                                -44-

Section 2: Training, InformationandDevelopmenton Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: July 2003
Estimated date of publication o f General Procurement Notice: May 2003
Indicate ifthere is procurement subject to mandatory SPN inDevelopment Business: No
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes             Domestic Preference for Works: NIA
Retroactive financing: No                      Advance procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored
through progress reports and supervision missions. At least one supervision missionper year will include a
procurement specialist (PS) who will be responsible for updatingthe procurement plan, and conducting ex-post
reviews. The PS's findingswill be included inthe PSRs for monitoring implementation.
Co-financing: Co-financing (2 million euros) i s expected from the Government o f Italy. Since the Italian finds
will be inthe form o fa Bank-administered Trust Fund,the Bank's Procurement Guidelines shall apply to the
expenditure o f those funds. Inthe future, other donors may also contribute co-financing.
Section3: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name o f Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part o f Task Team responsible for the procurement inthe
project: Elmas Arisoy, Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32699
Explainbriefly the expected role o f the Field Office inprocurement:
A Project Officer and the Procurement Assistantinthe FieldOffice will be part o fthe task team responsible for
supervising project implementationandproviding procurement support.




                                                -45-

              Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                             ALBANIA Second CommunityWorks Project

FinancialManaeement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
Country Issues.
The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) from May 2002 confirms that
improvement i s required inthe managemento fpublic expenditures, including cashmanagement in
Treasury andbetter intemal control throughout the public sector. Internal audit i s currently being
developed to improve the government's intemal control environment. ADF has developed policies and
procedures that operate inaddition to those o fthe current public expenditure management framework to
minimizeproject financial management risks.

Strengths and Weaknesses.
The significant strengths that provide abasis ofreliance onthe project financial management system
include: (i) experience o f ADF and its Finance and Administration Department o f implementing
             the
Bank-financed projects and satisfyingBank financial managementrequirements; and (ii) audit reports
                                                                                            the
and management letters issuedbyADF's auditors, including the fact that the audit report comprises all
activities and projects o fADF.
There are no significant weaknesses ofthe project financial managementsystem.

Implementing Entity.
ADF was established inthe aftermath ofthe collapse o fAlbanian communismin 1990-91. In1993ADF
implementedthe first World Bank financedproject and it has a successful track record inits
implementation o f four Bank-financed project: Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, Rural
DevelopmentProject, UrbanWorks Pilot Project, and Community Works Project, includinga
supplemental credit and a trust fund arrangement. The ADF reports solely to its Board.
 All financial managementactivitieswill be carriedout bythe ADF.

Funds Flow.
Project funds will flow from: (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished
                                   the
on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; or (ii)
the Government, via the Treasury at the Ministryo fFinance (MOF) on the basis ofpayment requests
approved by the Treasury Department o fthe MOFdirectly to the local supplier for VAT and other taxes.
The beneficiaries contribute 10% ofthe total cost o fthe sub-projects. This contribution is also managed
byADF. The systemapplied to secureproper commitment o fthe beneficiariesandtransparent
procurement has worked very well inthe previousprojects. The flow of funds have been an integrated
part o f the project cycle as described inthe Operational Manualrevised andbasedon the experience o f
implementing sub-projects. The new project will put more emphasis on securing the operation and
maintenance o f sub-projects after projects are finished.

Stafflng.
ADF staffing includes four financial officers anda Director o fFinance andAdministration. One o fthe
accountants i s specifically assignedto handle the CWPII. The accountant has considerable experience o f
implementingBank-financed projects. Terms ofReference for the ADF financial staff with detailed
descriptions o f dutiesand staffing i s inplace. The ADF has demonstrated that it is fully capable o f
fulfilling the accounting and reporting needso fthe projects ithasbeen implementingearlier.



                                                    -46-

Accounting Policies and Procedures.
The accountingbooks and records has so far beenmaintained on a cashbasis and project financial
statementspresentedinUnitedStates dollars andthe local currency. Accrual basedaccounting basedon
International Accounting Standards (IAS) is beingdeveloped as part o fthe MIS. ADF has instituteda set
of appropriate accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization andsegregation o f
duties.
The policies andprocedures are further elaborated inthe Financial ProceduresManual.

Reporting and Monitoring.
ADF will produceall financial reports and SOEs for the Bank through the MIS developed for the
institution. ADF has finalized the formats o f the reports enabling satisfactorily reporting on project
expenditures on accrual basis.
Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be usedfor project monitoring
and supervision and the formats of these will be includedinthe ADF ProceduresManual. ADF will
produce a full set o f FMRs every three months throughout the life o f the project.

I nforin ation Systems.
The accounting systemfor the CWPII has been fully computerized, adopting a tailor-made software that
will be able to produce the reports requiredby the Bank (FMRs). The systemi s part o fthe overall MIS
and has been tailored to the ADF activities with the assistanceo f a consulting firm.

SupervisionPlan.
Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervisethe ADF's financial management arrangements
intwo mainways: (i) the project's quarterly financial managementreports as well as the project's
                       review
and ADF's annual audited financial statementsand auditor's managementletter; and (ii)        duringthe
Bank's supervision missions, review the project's financial managementand disbursement arrangements
(including a review o f a sample o f SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensurecompliance
with the Bank's minimumrequirements. As required, a Bank-accredited FinancialManagement Specialist
will assist inthe supervision process.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit.
ADF has established an internal audit function staffedwith one finance person andone technicalperson.
The internal audit reports to the ADF Executive Committee. A regulation for the internal audit function
was approved inMay 2001. Improvedefficiency includinguse o f International Standards on Internal
Audit will be obtainedbyutilizingrelevantpart o fthe guidelines and checklists etc. developed bythe
Albanian Government's recent achievements inthis field. The internal audit unitwill participate inthe
plannedtraining o f government internal auditors.

External Audit.
Although the audit for 2001 was issued with three qualifications anda list o f items to be improvedupon
included inthe managementletter, no significant issues have arisen inthe audits o fprevious
Bank-financed projects implementedbyADF. A number o fthe recommendations are relatedto the
implementationo fthe computerized financial management systemthat is part o fthe Management
Information System(MIS) o fthe ADF. The ADF accounts will be prepared inaccordance with
consistently applied InternationalAccounting Standards. The accounting and reporting will be made on
accrual basis.




                                                    - 4 7 -

Since the audit o f the year 2001the audit requirementso f all donors supporting ADF activities have been
met by issuingone common (joint) audit report andone management letter basedon a agreed Terms o f
Reference. The audits are conducted inaccordancewith International Standards onAuditing. This
arrangement i s satisfactory to the Bank and it has thus been agreedthat similar audit arrangementswill
be adopted for the CWPII, to include the CWPII's project financial statements, SOEs and Special
Account. The auditor will be appointed bythe ADF basedon tender process according to WB
procurement rules. New Bank Guidelineson audit effective July 1,2003 will provide possibility of
simplifyingthe Terms ofReference.
The annual cost o fthe audits will becoveredbyADF.
The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be requiredto be submittedbythe project
implementation agency together with the due date for submission.


                   Audit Report                                        Due Date
ADF                                                   Within six months of the end of each fiscal
                                                      year
Project                                              Within six months of the end o f each fiscal
                                                     year
SOE                                                  Within six months of the end of each fiscal
                                                     year
Special Account                                      Within six months of the end of each fiscal
                                                     year

Inadditionthecountry's supremeaudit institution,performsadhocexternal audits oftheADF.

3. DisbursementArrangements
Bank funds will be disbursedunder the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completionreports and certificates, will be
retained by the Borrower andmade available to the Bankduringproject supervision. Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating
to those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic disbursements.
As soonas the project becomeseffective the ADF will open andmanagea Special Account specifically
for this project, inthe Bank o fAlbania to which the IDA funds will be transferred. Since the Bank o f
Albania does not execute commercialtransactions with thirdparties, the ADF will transfer the funds
from the Special Account to a second-level account openedby the project ina commercial bank
acceptableto the Bank from which it pays eligible expensesrelatedto the project. Counterpart funds are
transferred, inLek, to a specific bank account. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments o fthe SA
will be sent to the Bank at least every three months, or when the balance o f the SA i s equal to about half
o f the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.
Action Plan,IfRequired (Agreed with Borrower).
No actionplan i s required.




                                                      - 48 -

 Allocation of credit proceeds(Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds




 Goods                                                 0.10            100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% o f
                                                                       local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                         85% o f local expenditures for other
                                                                               items procured locally
 Consultants' Services                                 0.60                             85%
 Training                                              0.20                             100%
 Incremental Operating Costs                           1.oo              80% untilDecember 31,2004,60%
                                                                        untilDecember 31,2005, 40% until
                                                                      December 31,2006, and 20% thereafter
 RefundingofProject Preparation                        0.50               Amount due pursuant to Section
                                                                                2.202(c) o f the DCA
 Unallocated                                           0.50

 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing               15.00

Total                                                  15.00


 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Reimbursement o f expenditures made from the Special Account may be made on the basis o f Statements
o f Expenditures (SOEs) certified bythe Director o f the Albanian Development Fundfor the following
items:
    Works: contracts not exceeding $150,000 equivalent
    Goods: contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent
    Consulting services
    Consulting services individuals: contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent
                         -- firms:contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent

    Studies, training, andincremental operating costs: under such terms and conditions as the
    Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower
The required supporting documents will be retainedbyADF for at least one year after receipt by the
Bank o fthe audit report for the year inwhich the last disbursement was made. This documentation will
be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staffuponrequest.




Special account:

To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate a Special
Account (SA) inUS dollars ina bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The
authorized allocation o fthe Special Account will be US$l.5 millionrepresenting approximately four
months o f eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, the borrower may withdraw an amount o f
US$750,000, representing 50% o fthe authorized allocation. When the funds withdrawn from the Credit


                                                  -49-

Account amount to SDR 2 million, the borrower may withdraw the remaining amount o fUS$750,000 by
submittingthe relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications shouldbe submittedat
least every three months and must include reconciledbank statementsas well as other appropriate
supportingdocuments.




                                               - 50 -

                             Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                       ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project




                                                I
First Bank mission(identification)                      11/01/2002                      11I0412002
Appraisal missiondeparture                              07/01/2003                      05/10/2003
Negotiations                                            08/08/2003                      05/12/2003
PlannedDateof Effectiveness                             1211512003                      09/30/2003


Prepared by:
Albanian Development Fund


Preparation assistance:
Preparation benefittedfrom overlap with the first Community Works Project.

Bank staff who worked on the projec ncluded:
        Name                                           Snecialitv
Bribosia, Olivier                      Institutional Assessment, Consultant
Chase, Robert                           Senior Social Development Economist (Impact Evaluation)
Christensen, Olav                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Dade, Drita                            Projects Officer
Dean, Paul                             Civil Engineer, Consultant
Funahashi, Junk0                       Senior Counsel
Galliano, Elena                        Social Scientist (Community Development), Consultant
Gomart, Elizabeth                      Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation, Consultant
Hackaj,Ibrahim                         Operations Officer
Khan, Naushad                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Korreshi, Belita                       Team Assistant (Procurement)
Marc, Alexandre                        Sector Manager, Social Development
Mehta, Rohit                           Senior Finance Officer
Owen, Dan                              Peer Reviewer, Senior Social Development Specialist
Poggi, Patrizia                        Social Development Specialist
Rana, Sheetal                          Social Scientist (Safeguards), Consultant
Srinivasan, Radhika                    Senior Social Scientist
Tadesse, Hiwote                        ProgramAssistant
Warren, David                          PeerReviewer, Senior Social Protection Specialist
Wellens, Francis                       Civil Engineer, Consultant
Woodward, Mark                         Task Team Leader, Senior Social Development Specialist




                                                  -51 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                          ALBANIA Second Community Works Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan



B. Bank Staff Assessments
Implementation Completion Report, Community Works Project, December 2002
Procurement Capacity Assessment, March 2003
Financial Management Capacity Assessment, April 2003

C. Other
Institutional and Managerial Review, TRANSTEC, September 2002
An Evaluation o f the Infrastructure Component, Paul Dean, June 2002
ConsolidatedAudit Report, Deloitte & Touche, June 2002
Procurement, Technical and Procedural Audit, TRANSTEC, April 2001
Beneficiary Assessment, Urban Institute, June 2002
"Including electronic files




                                                - 52 -

                                       Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                                     ALBANIA: Second Community Works Project
                                                        21-Maw2003
                                                                                                            Differencebetweenexpected
~




                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                             OriginalAmountin US$ Millions                        disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                               IBRD        IDA                     Cancel. Undisb,      Orig   FrmRev'd
PO41442      2003 MUN WATEWWW                               0.00      15.00                     0.00   15.66        0.11       0.00
PO66260      2002 ROAD M I N T                              0.00      17.00                     0.00   17.57        0.51       0.00
PO69479      2002 FISHERY DEVT                              0.00       5.60                     0.00     5.11       0.10       0.00
PO57818      2002 FSAC                                      0.00      15.00                     0.00     7.94      -7.94       0.00
PO74905      2002 PWR SECT REHABIRESTRCTG                   0.00      29.90                     0.00   31.51        0.00       0.00
PO70078      2001 TRADE a TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR             0.00       8.10                     0.00     4.30       3.92       0.00
PO54736      2001 AG SERVICES                               0.00       9.90                     0.00     9.32        1.05      0.00
PO55383      2001 SOC SERV DEVT                             0.00      10.00                     0.00   10.17       -0.60       0.00
PO66491      2000 WS URG REHAB                              0.00      10.00                     0.00     2.83       2.95      -1.14
PO68853      2000 EMG ROAD REPAIR                           0.00      13.65                     0.00     1.12       1.43       1.35
PO69079      2000 FIN SEC IBTA                              0.00       6.50                     0.00     3.14       2.09       0.00
PO69120      2000 EDUCREF                                   0.00      12.00                     0.00   10.38        4.69       0.00
PO57182      2000 LEGiJUD REF                               0.00       9.00                     0.00     6.97       3.36       0.00
PO69939      2000 PUB ADM REF                               0.00       8.50                     0.00     7.41       6.61       0.00
PO51310      1999 MICROCREDIT                               0.00      12.00                     0.00     0.60       -3.11      0.00
PO43178      1999 IRRIG a DRAIN II                          0.00      24.00                     0.00     3.00       -1.96      0.00
PO45312      1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                           0.00      17.00                     0.00   12.18       12.24       0.00
PO40818      1998 DURRES PORT                               0.00      16.99                     0.00     2.60        2.74      2.01
PO40975      1998 LANDDEVT                                  0.00      10.00                     0.00     5.69       5.43       0.00
PO36060      1996 NATL ROADS                                0.00      25.00                     0.00     0.04        1.64      0.00
PO08271      1996 FORESTRY                                  0.00       8.00                     0.00     0.85        1.46      0.13

                                                 Total:    0.00      283.14                     0.00   158.37      36.72       2.36




                                                           - 53 -

                                         ALBANIA
                                     STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        JW 30 - 2002
                                      InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                        Disbursed
                                                     IFC                              IFC
FYApproval     Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998           AAP                             0.00    28.50     0.00     0.00  0.00    9.54    0.00  0.00
2000           NCBank                          0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    2.00    0.00  0.00
1999           SEF Eurotech                    0.80     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.80    0.00    0.00  0.00
1999           SEF FEFADBank                   0.00     0.98     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.98    0.00  0.00
2001           Seament                  -     15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
                     Total Portfolio:         15.80    31.48      0.00    0.00    0.80  12.52    0.00  0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                            Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998          PatosMarinza                       30.00       0.00     0.00     50.00
2001          Patos MarinzaIn                    10.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          SavingsBank                         0.00       0.00     15.00    0.00
2002          INSIG                               0.00       0.00      8.00    0.00

              Total PendingCommitment:           40.00       0.00     23.00    50.00




                                             - 54 -

                                                      Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                                     ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project
                                                                             Europe 8    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                            Central   middle-
                                                                  Albania       Asia    income             1Developmentdiamond'
zoo1
Population,mid-year (millions)                                        3.4        475       2,164                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  1,230       1,960      1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                      4.2        930       2.677           ~




Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                        0.9         0.1            1.0
Laborforce (%)                                                        1.3         0.6            I.2        GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                                           ~


                                                                                                                   i---
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                   'iper                           +primary
                                                                                                            capita                            enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population ("A of totalpopulation)                              43          63             46
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                       72          69             69
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                21          20             33
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                             14                         11              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source Is',of population)                             90             80
liliteracy I"/.ofpopulation age 15+)                                  15            3            15
Gross primary enrollment Is/, of school-agepopulation) I/                        102            107           **-    Albania
    Male                                                              95         103            107                  Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                            97         101            107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                          1981      1991        2000       2001             Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                                    1.1         3.8           4.1                                                     I
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                                                    18.6       19.4
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                                                 18.9       19.2                              Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                                       -2.9           -3.0                            -
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                                        11.6       13.8                                ,
Current account balance/GDP                                                      -7.2           -6.3
Interestpayments/GDP                                                              0.2           0.3         Domestic                   -+     Investment
Total debtiGDP                                                                   21.6       20.4            savings

Total debt servicelexports                                                        2.2           2.5
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                                         12.9
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                     38.5
                                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                         1981-91 1991-01            2000        2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)                                                                                         -
GDP                                           -0.5         5.4        7.8         6.5           6.5                   Albania
GDP per capita                                -2.4         4.6        7.2         5.3           6.1
                                                                        ~                                             Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and sewices                      ..       11.3        5.0        14.1           5.5
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                               32.4      39.3         35.9       34.2            20-
Industry                                                  43.0      42.7         22.7       23.4            10
   Manufacturing                                             ..     36.5         13.2       13.2
Services                                                  24.6      18.0         41.4       42.4            0

Privateconsumption                                        54.9      90.9         92.0       92.1           -10
General governmentconsumption                              8.5      22.1         10.9       10.9
lmpotts of goods and services                                                                                        -GDi              -O-GDP

                                                                                                        1:;
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                1.0        6.1         4.0           1.4
Industry                                                  -0.5        5 0        11.4       10.7           40-
   Manufacturing                                             ..      -0.8         5.0
Services                                                  -3.0        5.1        133        1::;

Private consumption                                                  5.4          2.8           6.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                 ....    2.8          7.4
Gross domestic investment                                 -1.0      20.1         17.9       10.9                   -Exports           -O-Imports
Imports of goods and services                                ..     10.3          6.5
_____~
Note: 2001 dataare preliminaryestimates.
*The diamondsshow four key indicators inthe country (inbold)comparedwithits incombgroupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                           - 55 -

                                                                                                              Albania
~~




  PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1981  1991     2000  2001      Inflation (%)
  Domestic prices
  (% change)                                                             45 T                                         I
  Consumer prices                                49.4     0.1    3.1
  Implicit GDP deflator                   -2.2   34.5    -1.2    2.8

  Governmentfinance
  (% of GDP, includes current grants)
  Current revenue                                34.3    22.4  23.0
  Current budget balance                        -21.7    -2.7   -1.7    1         -GDPdeflator         -0-CPI         I
  Overall surplus/deficit                       -27.8    -9.1   -8.5

  TRADE
                                          1981  1991     2000  2001
  (US$millions)                                                          Export and import levels (US$mill.)

  Total exports (fob)                     419     73     255    305      1,500-
   Agriculture and food                           14       28    28
   Energy/mineraland electricity                  19        7      6
   Manufactures                                     3     175   215
  Total imports (ci9                       384   280    1,076  1,332
   Food                                           49      238   256
   Fuel and energy                                10      147   184
   Capital goods                                  25     463    602
                                                                                      96           96         00    01
  Export price index (1995=100)                                                  95          97          99

  Importprice index (1995=100)                                                            Exports      IImports
  Terms of trade (1995=100)

  BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1981  1991     2000  2001     1
  (US$mi//;ons)                                                          Currant account balanceto GDP("A)            I
  Exportsof goods and services            431     82      705   840
  Importsof goods and services            403    314    1,520  1,791
  Resource balance                          28  -232     -815  -951

  Net income                                11   -22      106    149
  Net currenttransfers                              8    439    543

  Current account balance                  45   -246     -270  -259

  Financingitems (net)                     -19    24      381   390
  Changes in net reserves                  -26   221     ..I -131
                                                           11

  Memo:
  Reserves includinggold (us$mi//iOnS)                   608    737
  Conversionrate (DEC,/ocal/US$)                 14.4   143.7  143.5

  EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1981  1991     2000  2001
  (US$millions)                                                          Composition of ZOO1 debt (US$mill.)
  Total debt outstandingand disbursed            512      812   838
    IBRD                                            0       0      0                         G: 31
    IDA                                             0     346   366  I                F 32

  Total debt service                                4      27    38
    IBRD                                            0       0      0
    IDA                                             0       2      3

  Compositionof net resourceflows
    Officialgrants                               320      161    119
    Officialcreditors                             20      112    88
    Privatecreditors                              28        0      0
    Foreigndirect investment                       0      143   204
    Portfolioequity                                0        0      0                             c:83
  World Bank program
    Commitments                                     0      54    20      A IBRD
                                                                           -                               E Bilateral
    Disbursements                                  0       64    34      B IDA
                                                                             -       D Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                            --
                                                                                                            .Short-tem
                                                                             ~           ~


    Principalrepayments                            0        0      0     C IMF                             G
    Netflows                                       0       64    34
    Interestpayments                               0        2      3
    Net transfers                                  0       62    32




                                                     - 5 6 -

                      Additional Annex 11: LocalGovernment in Albania
                          ALBANIA Second CommunityWorks Project

A. Local Government Units

1.      Communesand municipalities comprisethefirst level of local government.

   a. A commune i s an administrative-territorialentity and the community o f residents usually ina rural
      areabut in special cases also inurban areas. The territory, name and the center o f eachcommune
      i s identified in the Law on Territorial Boundaries. Villages are sub-divisions o f communes, as
      defined by the Commune Council.

   b.A municipality is an administrative-territorialentity and the community ofresidents usually inan
      urban area but inrural areas. The territory and name o f each municipality i s set forth inthe Law
      on Territorial Boundaries. Sub-divisions of municipality are called quarters (lagie), as definedby
      the Municipal Council.

   c. A village can not have less than 200 hundredinhabitants.

   d. A city i s an urban area that has beencalled so by law.

2.      Regions comprise the second level of localgovernment.

   a. A region is an administrative-territorial entity that is comprisedo f several communes and
      municipalities that have traditional, economic and social ties andjoint interests. The boundaries
      of each region shall be coterminous with the boundaries o f its constituent communes and
      municipalities.

   b. The seat o feachregion shall be located inone o fmunicipalitiesunderitsjurisdiction. The Law on
      Territorial Boundaries defines the territory, the name and the center o fregion.

   c. Communes andmunicipalities are not subordinate to regions, and shall operate inrelationto
      regions inthe manner set forth inthis Law.

B. Organs of LocalGovernments

1. The government o f each commune, municipality and region shall consist o f a representative body and
executive organ.

2. The representative body o fcommunes and municipalities shall be the Commune Council and the
Municipal Council, respectively.

3. The head o f the executive organ shall be the Chairman o f the commune, for communes, and the
Mayor for municipalities.

4. The representative organ o fregion shall be the Regional Council.

5. The executive authority o f the region i s vested on the Chairman and Presidency o f the Regional
Council.



                                                    - 57 -

6. Members o f Communal Councils and Municipal Councils andthe Mayors o fmunicipalities shallbe
elected directly by free, equal and secret election inthe manner set forth ina special law on local
elections.

7. The members o fRegionalCouncils shall be selectedfrom the councils o fthe municipalities and
communes that comprise the region. The methodbywhich they are selected shall conform to the
Constitution and Chapter IXo fthis Law.

8. The Chairman and Presidency o f the each RegionalCouncil shall be elected by the memberso f its
Regional Council.

C. Rights and Powers O f Local Governments

 Exercise of Powersfor the Generul Welfclre

1. Eachlocal government shall have full discretionto exercise initiative for the general welfare of its
residents with regardto any matter which i s not excluded by law from the authority o f local governments.

2. Eachcommune, municipality and regionmay exercise its powers and rightsby issuingdirectives,
orders and decisions as it deems appropriate within the authority granted by this Law and as it deems
appropriate for the health, safety and benefit of its residents.

 Rights of Local Governnrents

Each commune, municipality and region shall have the following rights:

I. Rightofgovernance

  a.    Take any necessarymeasuresfor carrying out their responsibilities.
  b. Basedonthe Constitution they can issuedirectives, orders and ordinances.
   C.   Localgovernments can create economic units and institutions.
  d.    Eachlocalgovernment may create any executive organs it deems appropriate for carrying out its
        responsibilities under this Law.
  e.    Eachlocalgovernment may create committees, boards, commissions and other bodies as it deems
        necessaryfor exercisingspecific functions underthis Law.
  f. Eachlocalgovernmentmaycreateanyadministrative-territorial sub-divisionthat itdeems
        necessary or convenient to performits functions.
  g.    Local governments may adopt a seal and emblem.

II. Propertyrights

  a.    Localgovernments may exercise property rights, includingthe rightto purchase, sell or rent its
        movable and immovableproperty or use its property as guarantee or collateral.

  b.    Localgovemments may exercise the right o f eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring any
        movable and immovable property for the public interest inaccordance with the procedures set
        forth ina special law on this subject.

C.      The property rights o flocal government maynot be delegated to a non-governmental entity.


                                                    - 58 -

III. Righttofiscalautonomy

    a. Local government unitshave the right to set taxes and fees incompliance with the interest o fthe
        community.

    b. Local governments have the rightto adopt and executeabudget without interference from
        central government for matters within thejurisdiction of local governments.

Iv.     Economic development right

    a. Local governments have the right to undertake any initiative for economic development in
        interest o f their residents, provided that these activities do not contradict the economic policies o f
        the central government.

    b. Income from economic activities of local governments shall be usedto support the execution o f
        public functions.

    C. The economic activity o f the localgovernment units i s regulated by the general legislation on
        economic activities.

V.      Right o f collaboration

    a. Two or more units o f local government mayjointly exercise any power that i s granted mutually
        to themby executing ajoint powers agreement or by a contract that delegates a specified powers
        and responsibilities to one o fthe local governments or to a thirdparty.

    b. Localgovernments maycollaborate with similar unitso flocal government inother countries and
        with internationalorganizations oflocalgovernments, inaccordance with special legislation on
        this subject.

    C.  Localgovernment unitshave the rightto be organized inassociations inconformity with
        respective legislation for associations.

VI.     Rightsas ajuridical person

Local governments arejuridical persons and may exercise all the rights set forth inthe Civil Code and
other legislation forjuridical persons.

VII.    Other rights

    a. Localgovernment may grant honorary titles and moral and material stimulus,

    b. Eachlocalgovernment may determine the denominations of territories, object and institutions
       underitsjurisdictioninaccordance with the criteria set forth inthe Law on Territorial
       Boundaries.

    C. Functions and Competencies o fLocalGovernments




                                                     - 59 -

 Typesof Functions
Communes, municipalities and regions perform "exclusive functions," "shared functions" and "delegated
functions."

 ExclusiveFunctions of Communesand Municipalities
The Communes and municipalities exercise their functions incompliance with the regional and national
policies. The central govemment may issuenational standards inrelation to exclusive functions for the
sole purpose of achieving a clear and specific national interest, such as minimumstandards o fhealth or
safety, provide that the national standard does not limit localgovernments' discretion inareas o f clear
local interest. Inthose cases where a local govemment does not have adequateresources to meet a
national standard, the central government shall provide the necessarysupport to enable the local
government to achieve the national standard.

Inaccordance with the Law onLocalGovernment, coimnunes andmunicipalities shall assume
responsibilities for the following exclusive functions o f local government:

I. Infrastructureandpublicservices
    a. Water supply
    b. Sewage and drainage
    C.   Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance o f local roads, sidewalks and squares
    d. Public lighting
    e. Public transport
    f. Cemeteries andfuneral services
    g.   Cityhillage decoration
    h. Parksandpublic spaces
    i. Wastemanagement
    j.   Urbanplanning, land managementand housing

II. Socialculturalandrecreationalfunctions
    a. Saving andpromoting the local cultural andhistoric values, organizationof activities and
        management o frelevant institutions
    b. Organizationo frecreational activities andmanagementofrelevant institutions
    C.   Social services including orphanage, day cares, elderlyhomes etc

III. LocalEconomicdevelopments
Local economic development, including small and mediumbusiness development, agriculture and
agro-industry, trade and services and the management and protection o fnatural resources and the
environment; provide that:

    (i)Localgovernmentauthorityinthisfunctionshallbesubjecttogeneralnationalandregional                 :`
        policies.

    (ii)Responsibility for local economic development shall reside primarily with communes and
        municipalities, but regions shall initiate or coordinate local economic activities where the
        impacts of a particular activity extends beyondan individual commune or municipality.




                                                    - 60 -

AdditionalAnnex 12: ParticipatoryMonitoring& EvaluationPilotfor InstitutionalLearning
                           ALBANIA: Second CommunityWorks Project

 1. A PM&E pilot will be fundedunder the capacity buildingcomponent o fthe CWPII. This pilot aims
 to test participatory methods designedto be adopted byADF on a broader scale. PM&E i s one
 component o f a broader effort to increaseparticipation inADF's sub-projects through out the sub-project
 cycle andbuildthe capacity o f local partners. This component addresses issues raisedinthe Institutional
 and Managerial Review (Transtec, 2002), inparticular the needto increaseparticipationto improve
 operation and maintenance (O&M) o f sub-projects.
 A.       Background
 2. Keyprinciples: The key principles of PM&E are: (1) localpeople are active participants -notjust
 sources o f information; (2) the stakeholders chose indicators, collect data, analyze and make
 recommendations; (3) the process is facilitated by outsiders;(4) a focus on buildingstakeholder capacity
 for analysis and problem-solving; (5) the process builds commitment to implementingany recommended
 corrective actions.
 3. Differences between PM&E and traditionalM&E: PM&E differs from traditional monitoringand
 evaluation. Traditional M&Etends to be linear, predeterminedand extractive to fulfill financial and
 management accountability needs. PM&E however, is conducted bybeneficiaries who collect
 information, analyze it and make recommendations, assistedby an outside facilitator, who helps guide
 the process and brings other perspectives. The topics for study are determinedduring the process by the
 beneficiariesthemselves. Also, PM&E usually includes assessment o fthe sub-project, the participatory
 process andthe sub-project outcomes.
 4. Intraditional monitoring, M&Eis usually conducted as an ongoing activity throughout the life o f a
 project, whereas evaluations are undertaken at certain times -at key milestones or upon completion o f
 the project. InPM&E, the distinction between monitoring and evaluationcan become less distinct
 becausethe participatory feedback processesare built into the project designas a regular component of
 the work rather than one-time events. Also, most PM&E is conducted alongside more conventional
 M&Eto crosscheck the findingsandfoster alocallevelofcommitment to sub-projects.
 5. Benefits of PM&E: PM&E i s one component o f an effort to achieve increased participation
 throughout the sub-project cycle. Increasedparticipation and capacity buildingfrom the sub-project
 identification stage and throughout the sub-project cycle will increase beneficiaries' sense o f ownership
 andtherefore their performance inoperations and maintenance. PM&E will also increase the
 accountability o f decision-makers (local officials, implementingagency, contractors, andbeneficiaries
 themselves), by increasing the information available to beneficiariesthrough data collection and analysis.
 PM&E also offers opportunities to identifysocial problems, early on, track their resolution and leam
 from the experience.




                                                     -61 -

B.       OverallDescriptionof ProposedPM&E:
6. Project Context: The proposed PM&E activities intersect with other activities that will support
increased participation and capacity building-including project identification at the community level,
identification o fproject selection criteria at Commune and Qark levels and localdevelopment planning
(LDP) at the village and Commune levels. Beneficiaries will develop a PM&E plan(Le., they will chose
indicators, assign responsibilitiesand initiate data collection activities) intwo contexts: (1) at sub-project
identification and (2) within the local development planning process. At the project level, pilot PM&E
sites will be among those villages which have not submitted priorities to ADF or who have decided to
change their priorities. Ineachpilot site where LDP is beingtested, an action planning exercise
(including training inPM&E and development o f a PM&E plan) will result inthe delineation o f a LDP
including a list o f priorities, indicators and responsibilities for PM&E. Results from villages within a
Commune will thenbe integrated into a Commune level development plan. The village-level Project
Consultative and MonitoringGroup composed o fbeneficiaries selectedby the community will be
responsible for PM&E.
7. Timefrmze: The process o f developing o f identifying priorities and then developing a local
development plan at the village level can be expected to take approximately 5 worlung days over a
period o f 2 months. This will allow time for communities to disseminate information, mobilize, gather
information necessaryto prepare for planning meetings, and attend facilitated village-level workshops or
focus groups.
8. Incentives for participating in the LDP process include the capacity building(training, etc) which will
be offered at the village and Commune level, thereby raising slulls and awarenesso f beneficiaries and
local government withinthese communities. Additional incentives such as office equipment will be
considered ifit i s found that more incentives are needed. To maximize the impact o f activities to improve
decentralization and governance, the project will support incentives that will encourage local
governments to planthe use o f their funds inan open, transparent fashion. Local support for sub-projects
should be maximizedby encouraging localbeneficiaries to match local government contributions (rather
than 100%o fthe contribution coming from localgovernment funds).
9. Implementation: ADF will select a Tirana-based umbrella NGO with experience inparticipatory
social mobilization and local development planningto oversee three regional (Qark)NGOs to implement
these activities at the village level. This arrangement will allow ADF to extend its reach into the villages
and expand its capacity for adopting participatory processeswithout overly burdeningits current
organizational structure. The central NGOwill develop and test the methodology for participatory LDP
at the village level including project identification and PM&E inthe first pilot site. This site will serve
the dual purpose o ftesting an initial methodology and training o fthe Qark-level NGOs. Thus the pilots
will be sequencedto allow for learning from the initial site andgradually buildthe capacity o f Qark level
NGOs. To fillthe need for committed and skilled labor, an agreementbetweenADF andthe School o f
Social Work inTirana (andother regional universities) may be necessaryto ensure that NGOshave
access to qualified staff inthe field.
10. InclusiveParticipation: The methodology developed by the NGOwill be inclusive, covering all the
population resident inthe site. Special attentionwill be given to ensureinclusion o fhard-to-reach groups
such as youth, women, ethnic minorities andthe poor. The centralNGO will rely on a two-pronged
inclusive methodology: (a) collaborating with NGOs or CBOs specializing inworking with youth,
women and other hard-to-reach groups, who inturn can identify leaders andappropriate ways o f reaching
the population groups; and (b) identifying,training andotherwise supportingwell-connected and
respected `champions' who are willing to give these groups `a seat at the table' for decision-making at
the village andCommune levels. These champions will needto beidentifiedineachpilotvillage and
Commune bythe NGO prior to initiatingthe LDP or project identification process. This will ensure that


                                                     - 62 -

participation is inclusive from the very start o fthe planningprocess..
 11. Criteriafor selection of Umbrella NGO: The central NGOwill be selectedona competitivebasis.
The winner will be chosenbasedon experience and capacity to work collaboratively with localNGOs.
Organizational criteria for the central NGOinclude:
        A mainoffice located inTirana andwithin a one-hour drivingfrom the first pilot training site;
        Official  registration and formal organizational structures, allowing for a highlevel o fprogram
        and financial accountability    - includingfinancial division o f responsibilities, transparency and
        institutionalizedmonitoring o fprogrammatic activities;
        A well-developed network inthe region, and experience with partnerships with CBOs or NGOs,
        inparticular with women or youthNGOs;
        Effective working relationships with local and regional government counterparts;
        Positive references demonstrating respect and appreciation by (i)     other donors; (ii) partners
                                                                                                 other
        and peers in civil society and government, and (iii)   beneficiaries;

        Focus o f activities on community development rather than advocacy, education or research;

        Experience o f working with communities, preferably at the grassroots, and especially in
        participatory local development planning;
        Demonstrated capacity to work with local govemment;
        A commitment to buildingcapacity oflocal partners as well as a capacity to provide formal and
        on-the-spot training to localpartners;
        An ability to identify its mainachievementsand its mainfailures as well as a demonstrated
        ability to act on the lessons learned ina timely fashion, through management changes,
        willingness to report themto donors, etc;
        A demonstrated awarenessof social-economic issues andpoliticalempowerment               -- including
        community dynamics such as socio-economic status, age and gender -andan ability to operate
        inaninclusiveparticipatory fashion;
        Adequate access to the information necessaryto support its activities;
        Access to relevant professional skills and ability to identify andrectify lacking skills;
        Demonstratedleadership capacity -through collaboration andnegotiation with other civil
        society partners to meet common goals, agenda settingwith local officials, etc.; and
        No identified conflicts o finterest (including political alliances which may endangerthe success
        of the pilot) inimplementing the pilot.
12. Inaddition to organizational and experience criteria, the proposal will bejudged basedon the
following six main considerations:

    a) Organizational Capacity:Primary gages o f capacity are: previous experience, organization
        structures and systems such as monitoring andevaluation andfinancial management systems. To
        fulfill its supervisory role, the central NGOwill needsubstantial analytical capacity (e.g.
        educational levels andprofessional training o fproject management staff, appropriate
        organizational structures and demonstrated responsiveness of management systems) to draw
        lessons from experience, adapt methodologyand develop capacity o f localpartners.

    b) Access toResources:Inaddition to the capacity o fits staffto provide supervision andformal


                                                     - 63 -

        training, the NGOwill need to ensure access to qualified human resources, through formal
        partnerships with universities, for example. Sourceso f skilledstaff inthe regions will needto be
        documented. The project will needto show how it will access information on social issues
        relevant to the program.
        Inclusiveness: The proposal needsto clearly articulate an inclusive participatory methodology
        which aims to effectively give voice to all sub-groups within villages -including the poor or less
        well-off, youth, women, and ethnic minorities -while keepingcommunity input manageable
        within the LDPprocess and the sub-project cycle. A collaboration with NGOsor CBOs
        specializing inworking with hard-to-reach groups will be essential. The NGOwill also needto
        demonstrate how it will identifywell-connected `champions' for hardto reach groups (women,
        ethnic minorities, poor, etc.) as well as leaders among these groups ineachpilot site and an
        awareness o fhow to support andmake the best use o f these keypersons.
        Cost and Time-Ef3ciency: To maximize the chances o fADF adopting the methodologyon a
        wider scale the proposal needs to optimize the use o f existingresources.
        Managerial Flexibility: Giventhat the NGO will be responsible for testing a pilot and generating
        learning between stakeholders at these sites, including local government, the NGOneeds to
        describe how it will continuously seek to learn from the experience at these pilot sites, coordinate
        learning and exchangesbetween local level stakeholders and analyze results to make
        recommendations for changes. The NGO's own willingnessto learn and make changesi s
        essential.
        Coordination andpartnership: The NGO needs to demonstrate a history and capacity to
        coordinate its activities with other NGOs, internationalorganizations and local government
        working inthe same sectors, act as a catalyst for learning, andbuildon resourcesand experiences
        o f others.
13. Criteriafor Regional Level NGOs: The Qark-level NGOswill be selected among the more than 800
NGOsworking inthe country. The roleo fthese regionalNGOsis to implementthe methodology
devisedby the central NGOat the training site and adapt it to the realities o ftheir respective Qarks.
These NGOswill also draw on their existingnetwork of decisionmakers and connections with
beneficiaries. Itcan be expected, however, that the localNGOswill have little experience working to
buildcommunity development capacity. Financialand other management issueswill be addressedearly
on intraining and supervision by the umbrella central NGO.
14. Similarlyto the organizational criteria listed above for the centralNGO, regional NGOswill be
selected according to the following criteria. The NGOwill needto have:

    a) A main office locatedinthe region where the pilot site i s located;
    b) Officially registeredandhasformal organizational structures allowing for a highlevelof
        programmatic and financial accountability;

    c) A well-developed network inthe region and experience with partnerships with CSOs or NGOs,
        inparticularwithNGOsworkingwithwomen, youth, thepoor, ethnic minorities or other
        vulnerable groups;
    d) Effective working relationships with localandregional government counterparts;
    e)  Positivereferences demonstrating respect and appreciation by (i) donors; (ii) partners
                                                                           other              other
        and peers incivil society and government, and (iii) beneficiaries.

    f, Focusedits past activities on community development at the grassroots;



                                                    - 64 -

     g) An ability to identify itsmainachievements and its mainfailures as well as a demonstrated
         ability to act on the lessons learned ina timely fashion through management changes, etc;

    h) A demonstrated awarenessofsocial-economic issues andpolitical empowerment, including
         community dynamics involving age and gender, to operateinan inclusive participatory fashion;

     i)Accesstorelevantprofessionalskillswithintheorganizationorthroughidentifiedsources;
    j) Demonstrateditsleadershipcapacity intheregionsothat itmaybenefitfromadequate
         credibility inimplementingthese activities;

    k) Noidentifiedconflicts ofinterest inimplementingthe pilot, including any political alliances
         which may endanger the success o fthe project.
15. ADF Structure: Within ADF, the role o f the Social Inspectors will be to (1) monitor these NGOs; (2)
monitor that learning is occurring between the NGOs and communities and (3) ensure learning and
monitoring o f NGO activities are beingtracked within ADF. A mediumtermTA will be responsible for
coordinating and integratingLDP and PM&E activities within ADF and inthe field. This position is
essential inorder to ensure that management level buy-inand learning from the pilots. Also, the TA will
create an organizational linkbetween the Social Inspectors sittinginthe regional inspector teams and the
M&ESpecialist. This will allow for management-level learning, feedback opportunitiesbetweentwo
related functions and result ingreater overall coherence and quality o f M&E activities.
16. The success o f this processrequires greater sensitization o f all field ADF staff to participatory
processes,attitudes and behaviors. Above all, Regionaland District or Technical Inspectors need to
receive training to ensure their activities support participatory activities carried out byNGOs as well as
ADF Social Inspectors. For example, regional inspectors will be involvedintraining so that they will
understandthe benefits o fparticipation (and ways to achieve it) throughout the project cycle including
gender awareness. Local government will participate insimilar sensitization activities inthe context o f
the local development planning.
17. Pilot Sites: The PM&E will be piloted in3 Qarks- one ineacho f the three zones identified by
INSTAT-inthe north, south andcenter. As noted above, the first site will be located inthe central zone
and implementedbythe umbrella NGOas a first pilot and training site. Inthe northern and southern
regions, activities will beginsites that are readily accessible byNGOswith their existing capacity. A
preliminarysite selection for the pilot sites will be conducted byADF basedonthe following criteria:
         Sites will be ruralvillages and Communes (rather than municipalities) to keep the scale o f the
        LDP activities manageablewithin the timeframe o f the pilot. Another reason i s coordination:
        other donors are focusing their capacity buildingactivities for local development planning on
        municipalities.
        The site i s `representative' o fthe broader region (North, South, Center);
        Local stakeholders are interested inthe pilot and local `champions' have beenidentified;
        Villages that have not yet identifiedpriorities for ADF sub-projects or have decided to alter their
        priorities;
        The first site (e.g. incenter) i s within reasonable distance (i.e. within 1hour drive from Tirana)
        for the central NGO. The centralNGOwill involve regional-level NGOs inthe experience in
        this first site to test the methodology andtrain potentialpartners.
        Finally, southern and northern sites will be selected to maximize chances o f success. Therefore,
        regionalNGOswill be encouraged to work insites where they have resources and are well
        networked, that are easily accessible, etc.


                                                     - 65 -

 18. Analysis and Scale-Up: After the pilot phase-once experience hasbeen analyzed and lessons
learned integrated into a revisedmethodology     -- theprocess i s designedto be rolledout to the other
Communes where ADF i s working. At this stage the methodology will be tested inurbanareas. A
workshop will be held at the endo f the pilot to disseminate results, and generate interest inadopting
these methods inother Communes o f Albania. The experience will be written up as a case study and
lessonswill be disseminated to all the Communes o fAlbania.

C.       Implementation:
 19. There will be four mainphases inthe implementationo f the pilot: establishing commitment to the
PM&E, definingterms o freference o f PM&E, data collection and analysis, and finally, analysis and
scale up.
20. Phase I:Establish commitment to PM&E: The decision to participateneeds to be taken at two
levels: at the project-wide level (government, managemento f ADF, centralNGO) and at the local level
(project field-level staff, users, local government). Duringthe pilot phase and inthe mediumterm, one o f
the maincriteria's for site selection is beneficiary interest inPM&E and LDP. A preliminary site
selection will be conducted by ADF incollaboration with the selected centralNGO which will needto
ensure adequate capacity for operation inthe site. (Preliminary site selection criteria are listedabove.)
21. Training will be provided to all stakeholders froin the villagers to the senior management regarding:
concepts, methods, and behaviors and attitudes. Inthe village, the training i s provided inthe context of
producing key outputs: LDP, priorityranking and PM&E plans. Training for regional NGOs will be
providedby the central NGO and supervised by the T A or a professional with experience inparticipatory
local development planning. The training will emphasizefacilitation skills and participatory rapid
appraisal methods such as wealth ranking andtracking o f impact on the poor; cost-benefit analysis;
priority ranking; causeand effect chains, etc. It is expected that the local level NGOs may not have
experience with participatory processesUNDP, 2002, "UNDP Civil Society PartnershipAssessment," UNDP
Albania, CoordinatedbyEtlavaVertopi., SO the training may needto be intensive rather than a quick
orientation to the LDP and PM&E methodology.
22. Inparallel, capacity buildingactivities will support improved local governance through the
development o f open, transparent, inclusive and flexible institutions at the village and Commune levels.
ADF structure needsto be adaptedto become increasinglyreceptive to learningfrom the field. This will
include training of regional and district inspectors as well as Social Inspectors to better assimilate
participatory methods. Social inspectors will need to achieve an equal footing within the regional
inspector teams so that the participatory process is seen as an integral part o f a sound technical output.
Local governments also need support inlearning from experiences inworking with ADF.
23. Phase 2: Defining terms of reference: Underthe guidance o fthe abovementioned TA, the terms o f
reference for the PM&E takes place at two levels: (1) At the sub-project or village level, regional NGO
staff and community representatives will prepare a PM&E plan; and (2) at the central level, to ensure
complementarity of traditional M&E(e.g. ADF's MIS and beneficiary assessments) with PM&E. Careful
attention to definingroles and responsibilities is crucial at this time. TOR will include specifying and
selecting key topics, data collection methods, timing, and analysis and feedback channels to ADF and
between pilot projects. These activities include a review o fthe existingdata collection tools usedby the
field level staffto improve data quality, andreduce the quantity o f data collected.




                                                    - 66 -

24. Phase 3: Data collection and Analvsis: Working ina total o f 3-6 pilot sites, the central NGOwill
test methodology andleam from experience ingenerating data, analyzing it andmaking
recommendations for other pilot sites andto ADF. The PM&E plan will be defined during the project
identification or LDPprocesses but remain flexible enough for local users to add indicators or questions
as the project progresses, to reflect changing circumstances or learning. The PM&E function will be a
responsibility of the Sub-project Consultative and Monitoring Group. Women, youth andother hardto
reach groups will participate indata collection and analysis, e.g. through parallel consultative processes
that will enrich the current decision-making process.
25. The M&E system o f ADF will be responsible for keepingtrack centrally o fthe indicators used inthe
sites as well as the results o f the PM&E. These indicators as well as up to date data will be collected by
the NGOs.
26. Analysis stakeholder workshops will be held at the village, Commune and Qark levels to review the
findings of the monitoring and evaluation exercises, to make recoinmendations for corrective actions and
to exchange informationperiodically. These workshops can focus on (1) horizontal leaming, when
bringingtogether local level stakeholders for shared leamingfrom project experience and (2) vertical
leaming when bringing together representatives at each level, for feedback to decision-makers.
27. Phase 4: Dissemination and Scale zip: An extended timeframe (36 months) will be adopted to allow
for learning and adoption o f new institutional attitudes and capacity buildingo f the regional NGOs,
which i s expected to take 2-3 years. Also, whilst CWP I1will ask each community to determine the
benefits it expect from its sub-project from Year 1 it will not be untilYear 2 that sub-projects will be
identified and prioritizedusing the new procedure. Therefore the earliest time when benefits ofthe social
mobilizationfor the whole o f the process can be evaluated i s likely to be late inYear 3. Inthe thirdyear,
a stakeholder workshop at the national level will be held to disseminate findings and generate interest in
PM&E. The experience inthese 3-6 sites will be written up as a case study for disseminationthroughout
the country and ECA region. An urban site will be selected and piloted inthe thirdyear after lessons are
learned from the rural sites.
28. The scale up phase will focus on institutionalization o f practices, and developing micro-macro
linkages: Commune to Commune and Commune to ADF. Roll out o f PM&E needs to be careful about
timingand criteria. For example, participatory processes will avoid startingupprior to national or local
elections, which may result ina widespread change of local decision-makers and therefore result ina lack
o f support of the newly elected officials.




                                                    - 67 -


MAP SECTION


