E757
May 2003
ALBANIA COMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT II
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
(ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND LAND ACQUISITION)
1



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Environmental Assessment
A.              Albania Environmental Legislation and Procedures
B.              Potential Environmental Impacts of Sub-projects
C.              Institutional arrangements
Annexes and Appendices for Environmental Assessment
Annex 1:        Environmental Assessment at the various Sub-project Stages
Annex 2:        Environmental Management Format
A.   Mitigation Plan
B.   Monitoring Plan
Appendix 1      Feasibility Environmental Assessment: Desk Study Checklist
Appendix 2:     Feasibility Environmental Assessment: Field Study Checklist
Appendix 3.1    Check List: Water Supply
Appendix 3 2    Check List: Rural and Suburban Roads
Appendix 3.3:   Check List: Small Road Bridges and Footbridges
Appendix 3.4:   Check List: Wastewater, Drainage and Sewerage
Appendix 3.5:   Check List: Small-Scale Irrigation
Appendix 3.6:   Check List Education Facilities/Community Centers/Markets/Parks
Appendix 3.7:   Check List: Health Facilities
Land Acquisition
A.             Policy Framework to Address Potential Minor Land Acquisition Issues
Annex 3:       Policy Framework Matrix to Address Potential Minor Impact Related to Land Acquisition
A     Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Water Supply Projects and
Mitigating Measures
B.    Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Sewerage/Drainage Network
Projects and Mitigating  Measures
C.    Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Road Projects and Mitigating
Measures
D.    Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Food Bridge and Road Bridge
Projects and Mitigating Measures
2



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
The coverage and depth of the Environment Assessment (EA) process depend on the nature,
scale and potential impact of a proposed sub-project. It is anticipated that ADF-funded
community sub-projects, as a rule, will not trigger a full-scale environmental impact assessment
(EIA) process. The EA is broad in scope and takes into account,the natural environment as well
as human health and socio-cultural aspects, focusing on those issues and potential impacts that
are determined as critical for a community based project's environmental soundness and
sustainability. The EA runs in parallel with the process of identifying a potential community
based sub-project, designing.it, and implementing it.
Key considerations to be taken into account during the EA process include:
*  Compliance with existing environmental regulations in Albania;
* Linkages with social assessment;
* Analysis of altematives;
* Public participation and consultation with affected people and organizations; and
* Disclosure of information.
A.    Albania Environmental Legislation and Procedures
Activities carried out under the project will conform to current laws in Albania and sound
environmental principles. In general sub-projects will not contribute to the degradation of the
physical and human environment.
Environmental legislation in Albania is governed by the new Law on Environment Protection
No. 8934, dated September 5, 2002. It establishes national and local policies on environmental
protection, requirements for the preparation of environmental impact assessments and strategic
environmental assessments, requirements for permitting the activities that affect the
environment, prevention and reduction of environmental pollution, environmental monitoring
and control, duties of the state bodies in relation to environmental issues, role of the public and
sanctions imposed on law violators.
According to the new Law on Environmental protection, the Ministry of Environment is the
competent authority for reviewing the request and EIA documentation prepared by independent
experts hired by the project developer. The law provides that the Ministry will prepare and
approve a list of experts to provide such services, but this will be defined in a separate by-act, to
be approved by the Council of Ministers
A new draft Law on Environmental Impact Assessment has also been developed based on EU
Directives and international practice. In 2001 an EIA and Information Directorate was
established in the MoE. Restructuring of the MoE, in 2002 to improve its environmental
management system. This has resulted in the establishment of an Environment Inspectorate at
central level, and Regional Environmental Agencies (REAs) in each of the 12 Qarks.
The REAs are responsible for the enforcement of environmental legislation at the local level,
through local inspectors. This includes the review of proposed construction projects, to
3



determine their compliance, and monitoring during construction. Without the approval of the
respective REA construction projects may not commence. Similarly, the local inspectors have
the authority to take action should there be a breach of regulations, including halting work.
Other bodies at Qark/district level with environmental interests comprise:
*   Public Health Directorates (PHD): responsible for monitoring drinking water quality.
*   Urban Planning Department:    for ensuring legal and controlled development that
does not harm the environment and landscape.
*   Public Enterprises:           Water supply services - for connecting the public
water supply;
Sanitation services - for connecting the public
sewerage network.
These bodies are also required to review and approve construction projects prior to the
commencement of construction.
B.    Potential Environmental Impacts of Sub-Proiects:
The sub-projects include rural roads, water supply, sewerage, lighting, small bridges, small
irfigation systems, schools and kindergartens, health centers, community centers, markets, etc.
Mitigating measures that may be adopted for each impact are detailed in the annexes for each of
the sub-project types and summarized below. However, as the degree and scope of the impacts
will vary according to their type and scope, the mitigating measures may vary too.
Construction and General Impacts
In general the environmental considerations for the construction of each sub-project will include
one or more environmental hazards such as health and safety hazards for the construction
workers and the public; noise; dust - leading to adverse air quality; soil and/or water pollution
from fuel and oil, waste materials, surface run-off, etc; excavation of materials and disposal of
surplus soil/earth and other materials, risks to environmentally sensitive areas, flora and fauna,
etc. Some sub-projects may also encounter items of cultural value.
As the duration of each sub-project is expected to be no more than 12 months, and the works
may not take place in each area at the same time, the beneficiaries may only feel some of the
impacts for a short time. However, some short-term impacts may also be long-term, e.g. visual
impacts, noise, impacts to environmentally sensitive areas, etc. These effects/risks will be
mitigated through measures specific to each sub-project, as suggested below and in the relevant
appendices.
Water Supply
Impacts associated with the rehabilitation and construction of water supply systems involve
managing the resource in a sustainable manner, to avoid over-utilization and negative impacts
on the associated environment, and avoiding contamination of the supply post-treatment. There
may also be impacts from the noise of pumps and the disposal of wastewater. Appendix 3.1
summarizes the most typical impacts and measures that may be used to mitigate them.
4



Rural and Suburban Roads
Impacts associated with the rehabilitation and construction of roads generally include noise, air
quality and other such nuisances, vehicle and pedestrian safety, provision of improved drainage
and other supporting infrastructure such as retaining walls, etc., and changes in drainage and
traffic patterns. Appendix 3.2 summarizes the most typical impacts and measures that may be
used to mitigate them.
Small Bridges and Footbridges
In addition to the effects associated with roads, for the bridge approaches, but on a smaller scale,
the impacts associated with the rehabilitation and construction of small bridges and footbridges
generally center on changes to the river regime and the riverbanks and on aquatic habitats and
water quality around the bridge structures and downstream. Appendix 3.3 summarizes the most
typical impacts and measures that may be used to mitigate them.
Wastewater, Drainage and Sewerage
Impacts associated with the rehabilitation and construction of sewerage systems will generally
focus on any treatment facility that may be provided, notably issues of smell, and the
outfall/disposal ppint. The latter may include effects to the river regime, as described under
Bridges (above) environment as well as the effects of pollution by the effluent, especially if
inadequately treated. Appendix 3.4 summarizes the most typical impacts and measures that may
be used to mitigate them.
Small-Scale Irrigation
Impacts associated with the rehabilitation and construction of irrigation systems will generally
be associated with effects on the water resources (see Water Supply, above), water logging of
the soil, discharge of the wastewater, especially if to a local watercourse, etc. Appendix 3.5
summarizes the most typical impacts and measures that may be used to mitigate them.
Minor buildings: Health Facilities, Education Facilities, Cultural Centers, Markets, Parks
Impacts associated with the rehabilitation and construction of minor buildings will also be
minor, and apart from any sanitation services provided and the disposal of any other wastes
generated, they will also be relatively local. In this respect it is particularly important that wastes
generated at markets and at health facilities are addressed during sub-project design and
monitored during operation. Appendices 3.6-3.7 summarize the most typical impacts and
measures that may be used to mitigate them.
5



C.    Institutional Arran2ements
Community Works Project II has been assigned category Fl (Financial Intermediary) since it
involves on-lending or granting of funds for sub-projects, which will be selected after the IDA
credit has been approved. For a FT category project, the Bank requires that prior to sub-project
approval, the approving authority should verify that the sub-project is in compliance with
relevant national and local environmental laws and regulations and is consistent with Bank
policy and procedures on environmental assessment, as described in the OP/BP/GP 4.01. In
addition, general approval for the procedures and guidelines for environmental compliance,
detailed below, will also be sought from the MoE and other concerned authorities.
As in the case of economic, financial, institutional and engineering analysis, EA is a part of
project preparation and therefore is the project proponent's responsibility. The actors involved in
the EA are the communities, the municipalities, the sub-project designers, ADF - through its
district engineers, and the responsible government bodies. As the owners and operators of the
completed sub-projects the primary responsibility will lie with the communes and
municipalities.
Based on information provided by the beneficiaries each commune/municipality will prepare an
EA at the identification (pre-feasibility) stage of each sub-project. The EA will be based on the
environmental guidelines provided in the Annexes to this document, and will identify the
potential environmental impacts for the sub-project, both positive and negative.
In conjunction with the commune/municipality, as part of the feasibility study for the
sub-project, ADF will then carry out a more detailed study. It will further detail the potential
impacts on the physical, biological and social environment in and around the sub-project area,
and will also suggest possible mitigation measures to be considered by the sub-project designer
and the commune/municipality, based on the likely scope, duration and scale of the impacts
expected. This document will be given to the designer as part of his/her Terms of Reference, to
assist him/her in the design of the sub-project.
As part of the design process the sub-project designer will be required to mitigate any negative
environmental impacts arising from the subproject, and to obtain the approval of the
commune/municipality and.the necessary legal authorities (see Section A). The documents
produced will include preparation of an Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
(EMMP) in the format specified in Annex 2. ADF staff will be responsible for monitoring the
process to ensure that it complies with the procedures as set out in this manual and, as necessary,
will also assist the designer and the commune/municipality in the process.
During both the construction and operational phases of each sub-project the
commune/municipality will carry out routine monitoring to ensure that the requirements of the
EMMP and any other environmental requirements specified in the legal permits are complied
with. It will be assisted by ADF. At each stage there will be particular attention to evaluating the
operation and maintenance of the environmental elements of the sub-project, as this will be an
important condition for financing further sub-projects in each commune/municipality.
To ensure compliance with procedures and to advise on any further measures required to
mitigate impacts as much as possible, ADF will contract a qualified firm or NGO to conduct an
annual reviews of a sample of sub-projects and make recommendations accordingly.
6



ANNEX -1: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMlENT AT THE STAGES OF
SUB-PROJECT IDENTIFICATION (PRE-FEASIBILITY), FEASIBILITY
AND DESIGN COMPLETION
The goals of the environmental assessment (EA) for each sub-project are to:
* Collect evidence that the proposed community based sub-project will not violate
existing environmental regulations, except where approved by the appropriate
environmental authority;
* Evaluate potential adverse environmental impacts;
* Highlight the need for specific prevention and/or mitigation measures;
* Make recommendations on the type and level of environmental activities at further
stages of the sub-project, especially monitoring and mitigating negative impacts.
The steps to be taken are:
* Identification (Pre-feasibility) stage: The beneficiary community and
commune/municipality will prepare a preliminary assessment of potential impacts
using guidelines provided by ADF.
* Feasibility stage: ADF is responsible for ensuring that the following activities are
carried out:
o A desk study using documentation provided during sub-project identification and
supported by other available data.
This will result in a brief report describing the various impacts expected from the
sub-project for use during the field assessment. The report will identify any further
information to be obtained, information that needs to be confirmed during the field
study, investigated in more detail, etc.
o Visit the sub-project site to carry out a field EA to confirm the information already
provided and collect any other information required to carryout the steps detailed
below.
This will result in a Feasibility EA along the lines detailed under Results, below. It
may include suggestions of possible technical solutions that the designer may adopt
to minimize any expected negative impacts and should also determine the need to
engage a specialist environmental consultant to carry out a more detailed EA (see
Section A and below). Depending on the circumstances this Feasibility EA may be
prepared by ADF, the commune/municipality, or a third party. However, in all
cases ADF has the responsibility to ensure that the Feasibility EA is of appropriate
quality.
* Final design (Design Report) stage: Based on the Feasibility EA the sub-project
designer or specialist enviromnental consultant will prepare his/her own assessment
(Design EA), prepare the design of the sub-project or advise the designer as
appropriate, and prepare the environmental monitoring and mitigation plan (EMMP).
Where appropriate, the latter should be prepared in conjunction with the sub-project
designer.



Based on the information provided in the Feasibility EA the contracted sub-project designer or
specialist environmental consultant will:
* Make his/her own assessment of the affected environment.
* Investigate any restrictions on the use of land and resources for the sub-project.
* Ensure that the design of the sub-project will minimize negative environmental
impacts.
* Check that the sub-project proposal complies with other environmental laws and
regulations.
* Estimate the range, scope and scale of the potential environmental impacts.
* Determine the result of the EA as detailed below.
* Make recommendations on the need for specific prevention and/or mitigation
measures, through the preparation of an EMMP (see below).
* Prepare the required EMMP.
* Ensure that the sub-project receives the necessary environmental approvals, prior to the
commencement of construction.
* As the construction supervisor, ensure that the works are constructed as per the
requirements of the EMMP.
The Result of this final EA (Design EA) will be summarized in the designer's Design Report
for the sub-project, or, if prepared by a specialist consultant, will be annexed to it. Possible
statements are:
* Positive environmental impacts are anticipated.
* No significant adverse environmental impacts are anticipated.
* Possible significant adverse environmental impacts are anticipated.
* The proposed sub-project will violate existing environmental regulations.
The Design EA will be complemented by report and recommenrdations based on the assessment,
including:
* A brief description of the affected environment;
* A brief description of potential impacts;
* Recommendations on:
o Whether the sub-project should be implemented or not (based on environmental
grounds).
o What specific prevention and/or mitigation measures should be taken during sub-
project implementation, if any, including different technical solution(s)
construction methods, etc., for design and/or construction, supported by the
EMMP.
o Any further EA and/or public involvement required at other stages of the sub-
project.
o  The need for specialist environmental input(s), to prepare a more environmentally
appropriate sub-project, and EMMP.
The Commune/Municipality will satisfy itself as to the accuracy and appropriateness of the
Design EA, assisted by ADF, and will take action to ensure implementation of the EMMP
dunng the construction/rehabilitation and operation phases of the sub-project.
8



ANNEX 2: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT
A. MITIGATION PLAN
Cost to:           Institutional Responsibility         Comments
to:                (e.g. secondary impacts)
Phase                  lImpact                 Mitigating          Install      Operate       Install       Operate
Measure
Construction
Operation
Decommissioning
9



ANNEX 2: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT
B. MONITORING PLAN
Cost to:             Responsibility to:
Phase            What         Where           How            When           Why         Install    Operate      Install     Operate
parameter is    is to be      is it to be    is it to be      is the
to be      monitored2     monitored/     monitored -    parameter
monitored?                    type of      frequency or      to be
monitoring     continuous?     monitored
equipment?                    (optional)?
Baseline
Construct
Operate
Decommission
10



Appendix 1: Feasibility EA: Desk Study Checklist
As far as possible, this intformation shoould be provided by Beneficiaries during sub-project
identification. It should be supplemented by information available to ADF from other sources.
All thte information should be verified during the field appraisaL
Issues of land and resource use, environmental permits and licenses
* What land-use permits required are already in place?
* What material resources will be required, e.g. water, stone, earth, etc.? Specify whether
they will be used for construction and/or operation.
* Which resources require permits or licenses (forest use, water use, gravel for road
construction etc)? Which permnits are already in place?
Sub-project site description
Review the sketch plan provided showing the proposed scope of the sub-project. If no plan has
been provided obtain a suitable plan before commencing the study.
* What information is there about current land users/owners - name, contact details, type
and extent of use/ownership? What information is missing?
* Does any part of the sub-project site fall under specific environmental regulations, e.g.
nature reserve, protected area, national park? Specify.
* Does the project fall under regulations of any other specific law? Specify.
Potential environmental impacts and compliance with environmental regulations
* Describe any disturbances and/or nuisances that may be produced during construction
and operation (soil, water resources, flora, fauna, noise, etc).
* Describe any activity that will fall any environmental protection category.
* What wastes will be generated during construction and/or operation? Which of them
are toxic or hazardous? What are the estimated quantities and what methods will be
used to treat and/or dispose of them, and where?
* What emissions will the sub-project create?
* Will the project create or increase risks of natural or other disasters (landslides,
flooding, etc)? Specify the type, likely location and likely conditions under which they
will occur.
Relevant Environmental Regulatory Authorities
Review the details of the parties interested in environmental matters provided by the
Beneficiaries (name, address, contact). Which other bodies should be added?
* Relevant Local Government Authority/Authorities, including any associated with
activities such as gravel extraction, waste disposal. Details of their environmental
specialist(s), if present.
* Regional Environmental Authority (REA)
* Public Health Directorate
* Forestry authority; Nature reserve, National park (if applicable)
* Any other environmental protection authority.



Appendix 2: Feasibility EA: Field Study Checklist
This study should be conducted in partnership with the community and the commune/ municipal
representatives.
Location
*  Check the site plan provided and correct, modify and annotate as required. Include land
ownership details as required. Where a plan is not provided obtain a site map, or make
a sketch of the site plan and add information as suggested above.
*  Mark the location of the site on a map of the local area, indicate the extent of the likely
environmental impacts.
Site Survey Questionnaire:
* Who are the community representatives? Names, positions, contact details.
* What are the contact details of others interested in the site - local government, any
specialist agencies - environmental and non-environmental?
*  What is the approximate area of the site (ha or m2) that will be used for the project
activities? Identify pennanent and temporary areas separately.
* What is the current use of the site? Provide a brief overview.
*  What were its previous uses? Provide dates where possible.
* Describe the physical layout of the site, particularly any major features, e.g., hills,
ravines, watercourses, water bodies, flood plains, erosion attributable to water run-off,
sensitive habitats - e.g. marshy areas, nature reserves, protected areas, historic
landmarks, soils, etc. Which ones change seasonally? Describe the extent and timing of
the changes.
Mark the details on the site plan and identify any of the features that could be affected
by the proposed sub-project, their likely scope, scale and duration.
* What is known about the geology/hydrogeology beneAth the site?
* What services exist on the site - water, sewerage, electricity, telephone? What are their
approximate locations?
* Where will construction materials come from/surplus materials be disposed of? Carry
out this procedure for areas where there will be a significant impact remote from the
sub-project site, e.g., new sites and existing sites where more than 2% of production
will be used in the sub-project.
* What special permits or licenses will be required? Who will issue them?
* What are neighbors to the site? E g., buildings, fields, industries, schools,
watercourses. What are their uses? Provide details of the landowners, tenants, etc., and
show the extent of their interest. Where possible estimate the distance to/from the site.
* Who else might be affected? When and how? E.g. children walking to/from school,
people visiting heath centers, elderly people, flora & fauna, transport services. Which
ones change seasonally? To what extent?
*  Whlat information is there about rare/protected species of fauna and flora (e.g. Red
book species?)? List protected mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, natural plants and
common cultivated plants, present in the area, or those of particular interest. Mark their
current habitats, seasonal variations, breeding season, etc. What is/are the risk(s) to
these species?
12



*  What are the current uses of water in the site? Give details. How this will change as a
result of the sub-project?
*  Has the site produced or is the site producing any wastes or effluent? If yes, give
details, e.g., how much, when, where it goes to, etc. How will the sub-project change
them?
*  What facilities/systems are there for the disposal of surface water and/or sewage
effluent? What is their capacity? Where are they? How will they need to change as a
result of the sub-project?
*  How will the sub-project change the landscape significantly (e.g., draining wetland
areas, changing water courses)?
*  Using the relevant checklist for the sub-project (see Appendices) list the impacts, both
positive and negative to be expected or anticipated. Determine their likely timing,
duration, scope and scale, and suggest measures than could be taken to monitor and
mitigate the negative impacts.
Visual Inspection Procedure
Points to remember whilst on site:
* Visit as much of the site as possible, preferably on foot.
* Mark relevant information on a copy of the site plan provided, as well as making
written notes. Include details of the surrounding areas - to determine impacts on
neighboring areas and visa versa.
* Take photos of potentially sensitive areas and for general record purposes. Obtain
permission first.
* Make notes of any odors, smoke or dust emissions, wastes, etc.
13



Appendix 3.1 - Check list: Water Supply
Environmental               Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 . Damage to soil structure due to    * Protect non-construction areas,
material storage, construction traffic,  avoid work in sensitive areas
etc.                                during highly adverse conditions,
* Loss of topsoil during excavation    provide temporary haul roads as
. Effects of excavation for/disposal of  appropriate, restore damaged
soil and other matenals             areas
* Erosion due to uncontrolled surface  * Stnp topsoil where necessary,
run-off and wastewater discharge    store and replace post
construction
* Design drainage and other
disposal facilities to ensure soil
stability
Land                  * Damage to land during construction  e Protect non-construction areas
Landslips on embankments, hillsides, . Design works to minimize land
etc.                                affected
. Impacts from excavation for/disposal  . Design slopes & retainmg
of soil and other materials         structures to minimize risk,
provide appropriate drainage, soil
stabilization/vegetation cover
o Stnp topsoil as necessary and
store, replace/reuse post
construction
o Take/dispose of materials from/at
approved sites
Water Resources       * Over-exploitation, causing changes  * Determine sustainable use/yield
in resources, flow pattems, etc , with  (test as required)
possible impact on downstream     . Resource planning and
users/ users elsewhere (if          management, in conjunction with
groundwater)                        authorities & communities
. Interruption of surface and       . Careful design - maintain natural
underground drainage pattems        drainage where possible, provide
during and post construction,       suitable wastewater drainage,
creation of standing water          safe/sanitary disposal of
Contamination/pollution of resource  hazardous wastes
and/or supply by construction,    e Careful design, adequate
human and animal wastes, including  protection from/control of
fuel & oil, hazardous wastes,       livestock; agriculture, casual
wastewater, etc                     human contact, hazardous
materials - fuel (including
storage), etc.
Air Quality           * Dust and fumes during construction  o Control dust with water, control
. Impacts from water treatment         construction methods and plant,
timing of works, vehicle speeds
* Minimize major works inside
comrnmunities
o Appropnate design, training in
O&M, safety
14



Environmental               Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Acoustic Environment  * Noise disturbance from construction  * Time work to minimize
works, pump stations (if near       disturbance
house/s)                          * Use appropriate construction
methods & equipment
o Restrict through-traffic in
residential areas
o Careful siting and/or design of
plant, provide noise bamers e.g.
embankments of waste soil
Biolo,zical Environment
Natural Habitats      * Disturbance of natural habitats from  e Careful siting, alignment, design
construction, e.g. dust, noise,     of pipelines and structures, and/or
un-seasonal working, poor siting of  timing of works (seasonal)
new works, disposal of untreated  * Select disposal areas and methods
wastes, etc.                        carefully Protect sensitive areas
Changes in water resources regime   within/close to site
o Ensure compliance with
minimum seasonal flow
requirements
Fauna and Flora       * Loss or degradation during and post  j Careful siting, alignment and/or
construction, especially due to     design to minimuze impacts,
un-seasonal working, changes in     especially for any sensitive/rare
environment regimes, etc (see also  species
above)                            * Select appropriate construction
methods
* Protect sensitive areas
within/close to site
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        * Local visual impact of completed   * Careful siting and design of
Landscape                works and some intrusions into      works, screening of intrusive
general manmade and natural         items
landscape, loss of trees, vegetation,  * Replace lost trees, boundary
etc                                 structures, etc, re-vegetate work
* Noise, dust, wastes, etc., during and  areas
post construction                 * Careful de-commissioning of
construction areas and disposal of
wastes
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality
and Acoustic
15



Environmental               Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Human Health          . Health and safety hazards dunng and  *' Appoint experienced contractors.
post construction                  Incorporate safety and
* Health impacts and diseases from    environmental requirements in
hazardous construction materials    contract documents. Provide
wastes, contaminated water,        information on mitigating
improper water treatment            measures. Capacity building to
emphasize need for safe working,
good supervision, careful
planning and scheduling of work
activities, involve communities,
fence hazardous areas
* Correct design and adequate
training in O&M of plant, safety
procedures, water testing, etc.
. Correct disposal of waste
Historical/Cultural   . Disturbance/damage/degradation to  * Careful siting/alignment of
Sites                   known and undiscovered sites        works; special measures to project
known resources/areas
* Immediately halt work in vicinity
of discoveries, pending
instructions from relevant
authonties
16



Appendix 3.2 - Check List: Rural and Suburban Roads
Environmental     |          Possible Impacts         1       Mitigation Measures
Components       l                                   l
Physical Environment
Soils                 . Damage to soil structure due to    . Protect non-construction areas,
material storage, construction traffic,  avoid work in sensitive areas
etc.                                 during highly adverse conditions,
. Loss of topsoil during excavation    provide temporary haul roads as
for/ disposal of construction        appropriate, restore damaged
materials                            areas
. Erosion due to uncontrolled surface  . Stnp topsoil where necessary,
run-off and wastewater discharge     store and replace post
construction
* Design drainage, structures to
ensure soil stability
Land                   . Damage to land dunng construction  . Protect non-construction areas
Landslips on embankments, hillsides,  . Design works to minimize land
etc.                                 affected
* Impacts from excavation for/disposal  . Design slopes & retaining
of soil and other materials          structures to minimize risk,
provide appropriate drainage and
soil stabilization/vegetation cover
* Strip topsoil as necessary and
store, replace/reuse post
construction
. Take/dispose of matenals from/at
approved sites
Water Resources       . Interruption of surface and        . Careful design, maintain natural
underground drainage pattems         drainage where possible, consider
dunng and post construction,         altemative alignments
creation of standing water        e Store hazardous materials and
. Contamination/pollution of resource  wastes carefully, provide suitable
by construction, human and animal    wastewater drainage and safe
wastes, including hazardous wastes,  waste disposal
fuel & oil, wastewater, sediments,  e Mitigate run-off velocities and
etc                                  volumes, provide
. Increase in runoff and nsk of        retention/sedimentation ponds as
flooding                             necessary
. Flooding due to clogging of drains
and drainage structures, etc.
Air Quality           . Dust during and post construction,  . Control dust with water
according to road surface         * Control construction methods and
. Traffic fumes during and possible    plant, timing of works
increase post construction        . Restrict vehicle speeds and
througlh-traffic in residential
areas, during and post
constniction
* Careful design, especially at
hazardous locations
17



Environmental                Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Acoustic Environment   a Noise disturbance from construction  . Time work to minimize
works, traffic - speed, quantity and  disturbance
type of traffic during and post   . Use appropriate construction
construction                         methods & equipment
* Restnct vehicle speeds and
through-traffic in residential
areas, especially trucks, using
signing and appropriate design
Biolo'zcal Environment
Natural Habitats       * Disturbance or loss of natural    * Careful
habitats and disturbance of protected  siting/alignment/placement/design
areas, during and post construction  of structures (especially for new
roads), and/or timing of works
(seasonal)
* Select disposal areas and methods
carefully, Protect sensitive areas
within/close to site
Fauna and Flora        * Loss or degradation during and post  * Careful siting and/or design to
construction, especially due to      minimize impacts, especially for
un-seasonal working, changes m       sensitive/rare species
environmental regimes, e g.       *I Consider alternative alignments
disruption to wildlife movements     and/or location of structures
causing increased road kills, etc (see  . Select appropnate construction
also above)                          methods
. Protect sensitive areas
within/close to site
a Work seasonally, as appropriate
Social Environment
Aesthetics and         . Local visual impact of completed  . Careful siting and design of
Landscape                works and some intrusions into       works, screening of intrusive
general manmade and natural          items
landscape, loss of trees, vegetation,  a Replace lost trees, boundary
etc.                                 structures, etc., re-vegetate work
Noise, dust, wastes, etc during and  areas
post constniction                 . Careful de-commissioning and
reinstatement of construction
areas, and disposal of wastes
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality
and Acoustic
18



Environmental               Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Human Health          * Health and safety hazards during and  . Appoint experienced contractors.
post construction                   Incorporate safety and
* Health impacts from hazardous        environmental requirements in
construction materials and wastes,  contract documents. Provide
pedestnan and vehicle accidents,    information on mitigating
• transport of hazardous substances    measures. Capacity buildmg to
emphasize need for safe working,
good supervision, careful
planning and scheduling of work
activities, involve communities,
fence hazardous areas
e Correct disposal of wastes
. Correct design, including safety
measures at hazard points,
fencing, road signs, etc.
e Restrict movement of hazardous
materials in residential areas
Human Communities     * Social change (new roads)          e Appropnate design to minimize
social impact (see generally
above)
Histoncal/Cultural    . Disturbance/damage/degradation to  * Careful siting/alignment of
Sites                   known and undiscovered sites         works; special measures to project
known resources/areas
o Immediately halt work in vicinity
of discoveries, pending
instructions from relevant
authorities



Appendix 3.3 - Check List: Small Bridgzes and Footbridges
Environmental                Possible Impacts                   Mitigation Measures
Components
Physical Environ'ment
Soils                  . Damage to soil structure due to    * Protect non-construction areas,
material storage, construction traffic,  avoid work in sensitive areas
etc.                                 during highly adverse conditions,
* Loss of topsoil during excavation    provide temporary haul roads as
for/ disposal of construction        appropnate, restore damaged areas
matenals                           * Strip topsoil where necessary, store
* Erosion due to uncontrolled surface   and replace post construction
run-off                            . Design drainage and other disposal
* Degradation of riverbanks and bed     facilities to ensure soil stability
post construction, especially through  . Careful design of abutments, piers
changed hydraulics and flow patterns  and protecting works
and erosion
Land                   . Damage to land during construction  * Protect non-construction areas
Landslips on embankments, hillsides,  . Design works to minimize land
etc.                                 affected
a Impacts from excavation for/disposal  * Design slopes & retaining
of soil and other materials          structures to minimuze risk,
provide appropriate drainage and
soil stabilization/vegetation cover
* Strip topsoil as necessary and
store, replace/reuse post
construction
* Take/dispose of materials from/at
approved sites
Water Resources        . Interruption of surface and        * Careful design, maintain natural
underground drainage patterns        drainage and river flow patterns
during and post construction,        wherever possible, consider
creation of standing water           alternative alignments and
. Contamination/pollution of resource   structures
by construction, human and animal  . Store hazardous materials and
wastes, including hazardous wastes,  wastes carefully, provide suitable
fuel & oil, wastewater, sediments,   drainage and safe waste disposal
etc                                . Where possible execute
construction during dry season
. Mitigate run-off velocities and
volumes, design outfalls
accordingly
Air Quality            . Dust and fumes during construction  . Control dust with water
. Traffic fumes post construction (for  . Control construction methods and
road bridge)                         plant, timing of works
* Restrict vehicle speeds in
residential areas
* Appropnate design
20



Environmental                Possible Impacts                  Mitigation Measures
Components
Acoustic Environment  * Noise disturbance from construction  * Time work to minimize
works and traffic during and post    disturbance
construction - speed, quantity and  * Use appropriate construction
type (for road bridge)               methods & equipment
* Restrict vehicle speeds in
residential areas, especially trucks,
using signing and appropriate
design
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats       * Disturbance or loss of natural    * Careful siting/alignment/ design
habitats during and post construction  (especially for new bndges),
(especially aquatic), due to         and/or timing of works (seasonal)
hydraulics, changed flow pattems,  * Select disposal areas and methods
etc.                                 carefully, Protect sensitive areas
* Disturbance of protected areas       witlun/close to site
Fauna and Flora        * Loss or degradation during and post  * Careful siting and/or design to
construction, especially due to      minimize impacts, especially for
un-seasonal working, changes in      sensitive/rare species
environmental regimes, e.g.       * Consider altemative alignrments
disruption to fish spawning sites, to  and/or location of structures
wildlife movements (approach       * Select appropnate construction
roads), etc. (see also above)        methods
* Protect sensitive areas within/close
to site
* Work seasonally, as appropnate
Social Environment
Aesthetics and         * Local visual impact of completed  * Careful siting and design of works,
Landscape                works and some intrusions into      screening of intrusive items
general manmade and natural       * Replace lost trees, boundary
landscape, loss of trees, vegetation,  structures, etc., re-vegetate work
etc.                                 areas
* Noise, dust, wastes, etc., during and  * Careful de-commissioning and
post construction                    reinstatement of construction
areas, and disposal of wastes
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality
and Acoustic
21



Environmental               Possible Impacts                  Mitigation Measures
Components
Human Health          . Health and safety hazards during and  a Appoint experienced contractors.
post construction                   Incorporate safety and
. Health impacts from hazardous       environmental requirements in
construction materials and wastes,  contract documents. Provide
pedestrian and vehicle accidents (for  information on mitigating
road bridges),                      measures Capacity building to
. Transport of hazardous substances   emphasize need for safe working,
good supervision, careful planning
and scheduling of wvork activities,
involve communities, fence
hazardous areas
* Correct disposal of wastes
Correct design, including safety
measures at hazard points -
especially pedestrian/vehicle
interaction, e.g. fencing, barriers,
road signs, etc
.. Restrict movement of hazardous
matenals, in residential areas,
apply any load restrictions required
during and post construction
Historical/Cultural   . Disturbance/damage/degradation to  * Careful siting and alignment of
Sites                   known and undiscovered sites         works, special measures to project
known resources/areas
h Immediately halt work in vicinity
of discoveries, pending
instructions from relevant
authorities
22



Appendix 3.4 - Check List: Wastewater, Drainage and Sewerage
Environmental                Possible Impacts                Mitigation Measures
Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 * Damage to soil structure due to   . Protect non-construction areas,
material storage, construction traffic,  avoid work in sensitive areas
etc.                                dunng highly adverse conditions,
* Loss of topsoil during excavation   provide temporary haul roads as
for/ disposal of construction       appropriate, restore damaged
materials                           areas
* Erosion due to uncontrolled surface  * Strip topsoil where necessary,
run-off                             store and replace post
* Pollution at discharge point, possibly  constriction
leading to groundwater pollution  * Design dramage and other
disposal facilities to ensure soil
._______________________  stability and appropnate treatment
Land                  * Landslips on embankments, hillsides,  o Protect non-construction areas
etc.                              . Design works to minimize land
* Impacts from excavation for/disposal  affected
of soil and other materials       . Design slopes & retaining
structures to minimize risk,
provide appropriate drainage and
vegetation cover
o Stnp topsoil as necessary and
store, replace/reuse post
construction
. Take/dispose of materials from/at
approved sites
Water Resources       * Changes in regime from excavation  * Store hazardous materials and
for/disposal of soil, waste materials,  wastes carefully, provide suitable
etc                                 wastewater drainage and safe
* Contamination/pollution from        waste disposal
construction, human and animal    * Select appropnate technology for
wastes, including fuel & oil,       wastewater treatment to minimize
hazardous wastes, wastewater and    pollution, especially in sensitive
sewage - especially from discharge  locations, e g. close to drinking
if not connected to existing sewer  water source, and operate and
* Eutrophication of surface water     maintain correctly/ according to
leading to habit changes, etc.      agree discharge standards provide
O&M training
* Site treatment works
appropriately, or incorporate into
larger wastewater systems,
provide any treatment necessary
to meet required standards, plus
training
23



Environmental                Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Air Quality            * Dust and fumes during construction  a Control dust with water
* Hazardous gases in manholes and    ' Control construction methods and
during disinfection (if chlonne gas)  plant, timing of works
* Restrict vehicle speeds in
residential areas
. Appropriate design
* Proper operation, monitonng
system in place
Acoustic Environment   * Noise disturbance from construction  * Time work to minimize
works and traffic                    disturbance
* Use appropriate construction
methods & equipment
* Restrict vehicle speeds in
residential areas, especially trucks
Biolog,fical En vironment
Natural Habitats       * Disturbance or loss of natural     * Careful siting/design of stnictures
habitats and disturbance of protected  and/or timing of works (seasonal)
areas, durng and post construction  * Select disposal areas and methods
* Changes due to eutrophication of     carefully, Protect sensitive areas
surface water                        within/close to site
Fauna and Flora        * Disturbance or loss, especially   * Careful siting, alignment and/or
aquatic animals and vegetation from  design to minimize impacts,
eutrophication of surface water,     especially for any sensitive/rare
(effect of water pollution)          species
* Select appropnate construction
methods
* Protect sensitive areas
within/close to site
* Abatement of pollution by a
proper effluent treatment and
disposal.
Social Environment
Aesthetics and         * Local visual impact of completed  * Careful siting and design of
Landscape                works and some intrusions in general  works, screening of intnisive
manmade and natural landscape, loss  items
of trees, vegetation, etc.        * Replace lost trees, boundary
* Noise, dust, wastes, etc , during and  structures, etc , re-vegetate work
post construction                    areas
* Unpleasant odors from treatment    * Careful de-commissioning and
facility, disposal point and/or     remstatement of constniction
polluted water course                areas, and disposal of wastes
during and post construction,
including proper O&M of
treatment facility and training in
both
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality
and Acoustic
24



Environmental               Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Human Health          . Health and safety hazards dunng and  * Appoint experienced contractors
post construction                   Incorporate safety and
* Health impacts from hazardous       environmental requirements in
construction materials and untreated  contract documents. Provide
wastes                              information on mitigating
measures. Capacity building to
emphasize need for safe working,
good supervision, careful
planning and scheduling of work
and O&M activities, involve
communities, fence hazardous
areas
o Careful siting and design of
works
o Correct disposal of wastes, based
on selection of most appropriate
technology; training in O&M
operation and maintenance plans
Human Communities     * Impacts may be concentrated       . Adequate treatment prior to
downstream in other communities     discharge
. Adequate consultation of
potentially affected communities
Historical/Cultural   . Disturbance/damage/degradation to  . Careful siting/alignment of
Sites                   known and undiscovered sites        works; special measures to project
known resources/areas
. Immediately halt work in vicinity
of discoveries, pending
instructions from relevant
authonties
25



Appendix 3.5 - Check List: Small-Scale Irrigation
Environmental               Possible Tmpacts                     Mitigation Measures
Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 . Damage to soil structure due to   * Protect non-construction areas, avoid
matenal storage, construction traffic,  work in sensitive areas during highly
etc.                                adverse conditions, provide temporary
. Loss of topsoil during Excavation    haul roads as appropriate, restore
for/ disposal of construction       damaged areas
materials                         * Strip topsoil where necessary, store and
. Erosion due to uncontrolled surface  replace post construction
run-off                           . Design drainage and other disposal
. Degradation of nverbanks and bed,    facilities to ensure soil stability
post construction, especially through  * Careful siting ; training in crop selection
changed hydraulics and flow patterns  and agricultural technology;
and erosion (river intake) Soil water-  * Careful design and appropnate selection
logging from improper drainage,     of irrigation and drainage systems
pollution through improper
use/storage of agro-chemicals
Land                  . Damage to land dunng construction  * Protect non-construction areas
Landslips on embankments, hillsides,  * Design works to minimize land affected
etc                               * Design slopes & retaining structures to
. Impacts of excavation for/disposal of  minimize nsk, provide appropriate
soil, waste materials, etc          drainage and soil stabilization/vegetation
cover
. Stnp topsoil as necessary and store,
replace/reuse post construction
. Take/dispose of materials from/at
approved sites
Water Resources        . Over-exploitation, causing changes  * Determne sustainable use/yield (test as
in resources, flow patterns, etc., with  required)
possible impact on downstream      . Plan use and management of resource in
users/ users elsewhere (if          conjunction with authonties &
groundwater)                        communities
* Interruption of surface and       * Careful design of works, maintain natural
underground drainage patterns       drainage where possible, consider
during and post construction,       alternative alignments
creation of standing water where   a Store hazardous materials and wastes
inappropriate                       carefully, provide suitable wastewater
. Contamination/pollution of resource  drainage and safe waste disposal
by construction wastes, including  * Mitigate run-off velocities and volumes
hazardous wastes, fuel & oil,      * Control of agrochemical use
wastewater, sediments and          . Proper O&M, and training for both
agro-chemicals, etc.,
• Clogging of canals/channels from
weeds, sediments, etc., causing
flooding, changes in habitats, etc.
o De-oxygenation, eutrophication and
other degradation of receiving water
26



Environmental                Possible Impacts                      Mitigation Measures
Components
Air Quality            *  Dust and fumes during construction  *  Control dust with water, control
construction methods and plant, timing
of works, vehicle speeds
Acoustic Environment   *  Noise disturbance from construction  *  Time work to minimize disturbance
works and traffic, pump stations (if  *  Use appropriate construction methods &
near house/s)                         equipment, restnct traffic movements as
appropriate
*  Careful siting and/or design of plant,
provide noise barriers e.g. embankments
of waste soil
Bioloezcal Environment
Natural Habitats       *  Disturbance of natural habitats by  *  Careful/alternative siting, alignment,
construction, e.g dust, noise,        design of pipelines, canals, structures,
un-seasonal working, poor siting of   etc., timing of works (seasonal) and/or
new works, disposal of untreated      crop selection
wastes, etc                       *   Select disposal areas and methods
Changes in water resources (see       carefully Protect sensitive areas
above)                                within/close to site
*  Ensure compliance with minimum
seasonal flow requirements
Fauna and Flora        *  Loss or degradation during and post  *  Careful siting, alignment and/or design
construction, especially due to      to miimize impacts, especially for any
un-seasonal working, changes in       sensitive/rare species
environmental regimes, etc (see also  *  Select appropriate construction methods
above)                            *   Protect sensitive areas within/close to
*  Algae blooms, proliferation of        site
aquatic weeds                     *   Provide corridors for movement of
animals
Social Environment
Aesthetics and         *  Local visual impact of parts of   *   Careful siting and design of works,
Landscape                 completed works and some              screening of intrusive items
intrusions m landscape, loss of   *   Replace lost trees, boundary structures,
trees, vegetation, etc.               etc., re-vegetate work areas
*  Noise, dust, wastes, etc., dunng and  *  Careful de-commissioning of
post construction                     construction areas and disposal of
wastes
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality and
Acoustic
27



Environmental               Possible Impacts                    Mitigation Measures
Components
Human Health          *  Health and safety hazards during  .  Appoint experienced contractors.
and post construction               Incorporate safety and environmental
*  Health impacts from human and       requirements in contract documents.
animal wastes in irngation waters,  Provide information on mitigating
especially if used on salads, etc.  measures. Capacity buildmg to
*  Toxicity of agro-chemicals          emphasize need for safe working, good
supervision, careful planning and
scheduling of work activities, involve
communities, fence hazardous areas
. Correct disposal of wastes
.  Education in proper sanitation and
health practices, good O&M; control of
animals careful storage and
management of agro-chemicals,
integrated pest management (IPM)
programs
Human Communities     *  Unequal distribution of water    .  Community participation to agree
management regime
Historical/Cultural   *  Disturbance/damage/degradation to  .  Careful siting and alignment of works;
Sites                    known and undiscovered sites       special measures to project known
resources/areas
*  Immediately halt work in vicinity of
discoveries, pending instructions from
relevant authonties
28



Appendix 3.6 - Check list: Education Facilities/Community Centers/Markets/Parks
Environmental               Possible Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Components
Physical
Environment
Soils                 * Contamination from waste         e Protect non-construction areas
materials, especially construction  o Provide adequate storage, and
and human wastes                    appropriate treatment and
disposal of all wastes
Land                  . Landslips on embankments,        o Protect non-construction areas
hillsides, etc.                   o Design works to minimize land
. Impacts from excavation             affected
for/disposal of soil and other   e Design slopes & retaining
materials                           structures to minimize risk,
provide appropriate drainage and
vegetation cover
e Strip topsoil as necessary and
store, replace/reuse post
construction
. Take/dispose of materials
from/at approved sites
Water Resources       . Contamination/pollution of       e Store hazardous materials and
resource by construction, human     wastes carefully, provide
and animal wastes, including fuel &  suitable wastewater drainage and
oil, hazardous wastes, wastewater,  safe waste disposal, with
etc.                                treatment as necessary
Air Quality           a Dust and fumes during constniction  * Dust control by water or
(internal and/or external, including  otherwise Ventilation of internal
volatile construction materials)    areas both during and post
construction
Acoustic              . Noise disturbance from           * Use appropriate construction
Environment             construction                        methods & equipment
* Time work to minimize
disturbance
* BtoloQical Environment
Natural 1-labitats    . Disturbance of natural habitats,  * Store, treat and dispose of wastes
especially from improper waste      appropriately
disposal
Fauna and Flora      . Loss or degradation due to        * Store, treat and dispose of wastes
improper waste disposal             appropriately
29



Environmental    |         Possible Impacts         ]      Mitigation Measures
Components
Social Environment   *
Aesthetics and       * Local visual impact of parts of  * Careful siting and design of
Landscape              completed works and some           works, screening of intrusive
intrusions in landscape, loss of   items
trees, vegetation, etc.          ., Replace lost trees, boundary
* Noise, dust, wastes, etc., dunng and  structures, etc , re-vegetate work
post construction                  areas
. Careful de-commissioning of
construction areas and disposal
of wastes
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality
and Acoustic
Human Health         . Health and safety hazards during  . Appoint experienced
and post construction, including   contractors. Incorporate safety
patient access and comfort and     and environmental requirements
handling of medical wastes         in contract documents. Provide
. Health impacts from hazardous       information on mitigating
construction materials, medical    measures Capacity building to
services - equipment, drugs,       emphasize need for safe
wastes, etc., and untreated wastes,  working, good supervision,
especially medical wastes          careful planning and scheduling
of work and O&M activities,
involve communities, fence
hazardous areas
• Careful design of works and
accesses
. Correct storage of medical
items, etc., and careful disposal
of wastes, based on selection of
most appropriate technology,
traimng in handling, O&M
plans, etc
Historical/Cultural  . Disturbance/damage/degradation to  * Immediately halt work in
Sites                   undiscovered sites                 vicinity of discoveries, pending
instructions from relevant
authorities and agreed actions
30



Appendix 3.7 - Check list: Health Facilities
Environmental     |          Possible Impacts         j      Mitigation Measures
Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 . Contamination from waste materials,  . Protect non-construction areas
especially construction, medical and  . Provide adequate storage, and
human wastes                        appropriate treatment and
disposal of all wastes
Land                  a Landslips on embankments, hillsides, , Protect non-construction areas
etc.                              * Design works to minimize land
. Impacts from excavation for/disposal  affected
of soil and other materials       . Design slopes & retaining
structures to minimize risk,
provide appropnate drainage and
vegetation cover
. Strip topsoil as necessary and
store, replace/reuse post
construction
. Take/dispose of materials from/at
approved sites
Water Resources       * Contamination/pollution of resource  * Store hazardous materials and
by construction, human and animal   wastes carefully, provide suitable
wastes, including fuel & oil, medical  wastewater drainage and safe
and other hazardous wastes,         waste disposal, with treatment as
wastewater, etc                     necessary
Air Quality           . Dust and fumes during construction  * Dust control by water or
(internal and/or external, including  otherwise Ventilation of internal
volatile construction materials)    areas both during and post
* Odor, post construction, according to  construction
services offered, etc             * Careful design and siting of
facilities that will cause odors
Acoustic Environment  . Noise disturbance from construction  . Use appropriate construction
methods & equipment
. Time work to minimize
disturbance
* Biolozical Environment
Natural Habitats      . Disturbance of natural habitats,   . Store, treat and dispose of wastes
especially from improper waste      appropriately
disposal
Fauna and Flora       . Loss or degradation due to improper  . Store, treat and dispose of wastes
waste disposal                      appropriately
31



Environmental     |          Possible Impacts          1       Mitigation Measures
Components       |                                     l
Social Environment
Aesthetics and         * Local visual impact of parts of    m Careful siting and design of
Landscape                completed works and some             works, screening of intrusive
intrusions in landscape, loss of trees,  items
vegetation, etc                    . Replace lost trees, boundary
a Noise, dust, wastes, etc., during and  structures, etc., re-vegetate work
post construction                    areas
. Careful de-commissioning of
construction areas and disposal of
wastes
* See also Soil, Land, Air Quality
and Acoustic
Human Health           . Health and safety hazards dunng and  . Appoint experienced contractors.
post construction, including patient  Incorporate safety and
access and comfort                   environmental requirements in
. Health impacts from hazardous         contract documents. Provide
construction materials and untreated  information on mitigating
wastes, especially medical wastes    measures. Capacity building to
emphasize need for safe working,
good supervision, careful
planning and scheduling of work
and O&M activities, involve
communities, fence hazardous
areas
* Careful design of works and
accesses
. Correct disposal of wastes,
especially medical wastes, based
on selection of most appropriate
technology, training in O&M
operation and maintenance plans
Historical/Cultural    . Disturbance/damage/degradation to  . Immediately halt work in vicinity
Sites                    undiscovered sites                   of discoveries, pending
instructions from relevant
authorities and agreed actions
32



POLICY FRAMEWORK TO ADDRESS POTENTIAL MINOR IiPACT RELATED
TO LAND ACQUISITION ISSUES
Amount of Land to be Acquired
In a few sub-projects, land may need to be acquired for civil works, for e.g., building septic
tanks or reservoirs or, for accessing water sources. However,'the size of land required for
these is generally small, say, 3-400 square meters per construction activity. It is also clear
from the experience of CWP I Project that land-for-land has been the mode of compensation,
as opposed to cash compensations. It is not expected that households will lose more than 10%
of their plots, should there be land acquisition in a sub-project.
Monitoring of the Land Acquisition Process
All compensation issues related to loss of land should be resolved before the start of civil
works, and should be legally binding. Agreements on land and compensation will be reached
between people losing land and the Commune/Municipality. Copies of these agreements
should be provided to the ADF by the Commune/Municipality and the concerned
commune/municipality is required to take necessary action in the cvent of any land related
problems during implementation.
During project implementation, the land acquisition process will be carefully documented by
ADF. For example, in addition to keeping on file, copies of agreements between affected
people and the Commune/Municipality, ADF will maintain a summary matrix that is
periodically updated, which lists owners, the sizes of the plots affected, the amount of land
expropriated (physical size and percent of the whole plot), the amount and location of
alternative land that was provided to the owner, or the amount of cash compensation and
records of any court suits and settlement amounts (if they differ from the initial
compensation). ADF will also periodically undertake supervision to ensure people affected
by land acquisition are being appropnately compensated, through land or cash This aspect of
the project will also be supervised carefully by the Bank project team twice a year during the
first two years, and annually thereafter.
Removal of Secondary Encroachments from Rights-of-Way
In order to remove any secondary claims on the Right of Way (for example, fences, kiosks
etc) that may obstruct the implementation of the maintenance work, sufficient advance legal
notice should be provided by the Commune/Municipalities/contractors, to the residents.
However, despite the advance notice, if structures continue to remain intact, such sub-
projects shall not be included for rehabilitation. There will be no forced removal of secondary
claims so that civil works may be completed. This fact shall also be specified in the technical
specifications to the contactor from the Municipalities/ Communes.
Mitigation Measures
The following matrix provides details on the scope of work in a sub-project that may cause
(i) minor land acquisition (less than 10% of individual owner's holdings), and/or (ii)
restrictions such as temporary loss of access to land, trees or other resources. Additionally,
the matrix provides guidelines on the mitigation measures that contractors need to provide in
the event of occurrence of such minor negative impacts.
33



ANNEX 3: POLICY FRAMEWORK MIATRIX TO ADDRESS POTENTIAL MINOR IMPACr
RELATED TO LAND ACQUISMION
A. Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Water Supply Projects and Mitigating Measures
Item of       Scope of Work      Potential Adverse  Recommended Mitigation Measures
Work                            Physical or Social
Imp acts
Source        Structure to capture  Loss of land      Construct items in public land.
of water via spnng;
Reservoir     well; tube-well or  Loss of direct access  Adjust design to minimize adverse
and    water surface water source  to water by owner  impact on private land.
treatment                                             Where not possible
Construct reservoir  Loss of trees and    .here ntpsible,
Commune/Municipality to negotiate,
Secondary                         vegetation          and arrange appropnate compensation
Pumping       Locate/construct                        (usually land-for-land).
Station      pumping station      Possible marginal
according to needs   loss of harvest     Reinstate items lost or damaged during
construction, e.g trees and
Peinodc access for  maintenance repairs
maintenance or
repairs             Postpone the period of the works out
of the season of harvest.
Create additional water mtake allowing
the owner of the land to take water for
his own.
Sign agreement with the land owner to
allow for periodic interventions for
maintenance and repairs
Transmission  Excavation of        Pipes may need to   Remnstate lost items during
main(s)       trenches for pipes,  cross private land -  construction
valve chambers,      temporary damage
Distribution  washout points,     to land, trees,     Appropnate design to avoid/minimize
network,     household            fences, etc.        impact
manholes,     connections
connection                        Periodic access for  Dispose off excess materials
points                            maintenance and
repairs             Sign agreement for periodic access
with the concerned land owners
34



B. Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Sewverage/Drainage Netlvork Projects and
Mitigating Measures
Item of      Scope of Work      Potential Adverse  Recommended Mitigation Measures
Work                           Physical or Social
Impacts
Collector    Excavation of       May need to cross   kemstate/replace  items  lost  or
network,     trenches for pipes,  private land -     damaged dunng construction.
manholes,    manholes, facilities  temporary minor
connection   for household       damage to land,    Appropriate design to avoid/mitigate
points       connections         trees, fences, roads,  impact.
etc
Trunk
sewers                           Periodic access for
maintenance or
repairs
Pumping      Construction of     Loss of land, trees,  Construct items m public land
Station      pump house, fencing  etc.
Treatment    and power supply                        Adjust design to avoid impact on
Facility                         Long-term access    private land.
Outfall/                         for maintenance or
discharge                        repairs            Where not possible,
point                                                Commune/Municipality to negotiate,
and arrange appropriate compensation
(usually land-for-land).
35



C. Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Road Projects and Mitigating Measures
Item of      Scope of Work        Potential Adverse   Recommended Mitigation Measures
Work                              Physical or Social
Impacts
Carriageway  Improvement of       Loss of land, trees,  Reinstate/replace items lost or
& footpaths  existing carriageway  boundary walls,    damaged during construction.
including: improved  fences, etc.
Drainage     alignment, widening,                     Appropnate design to avoid/mitigate
provision of passing  Loss of direct access
Embank-      places (on single   to property by       impact.
ments/       carriageway road),   owner.
retaining    excavation or filling                    Keep alignment, etc., e.g.
structures   to raise/lower       Removal of          embankments, in public land.
carriageway,        encroachments.
minimise gradients                      If and where carriageway and
or facilitate       Discharge of water  structures (culverts, walls,
alignment, etc.,    onto private land   emribankments, etc ) cannot be built in
public land, Commune or Municipality
surfaehabilitate e ing                  to negotiate, and arrange any necessary
surface dranage and                     compensation (usually land-for-land)
structures.
Build new drains
ditches, channels,
culverts, etc.
Statutory                                             Rehabilitate existing services as
services                                             required and as agreed with service
(water,                                               provider.
sewerage,
telephone,
etc.)      __.
36



D. Minor Land Acquisition Impact in Food Bridge and Road Bridge
Projects and Mitigating Measures
Item of      Scope of Work        Potential Adverse   Recommended Mitigation Measures
Work                              Physical or Social
Impacts
Approach      See Roads Matrix
roads/paths
Abutments,   Rehabilitate/enlarge  Loss of land, trees,  Reinstate/replace  items  lost  or
anchorages,  existing abutments.  fences, etc.        damaged during construction
etc.
Construct new        Loss of direct access  Appropriate design to avoid/mitigate
Bank          abutments.          to property by      impact.
protection   Install anchorage    owner.
works (suspension
bridges)                                 Keep withm public land.
Construct protecting                     Commune/Muncipalty to negohate
works, ranging from                      Commune/Municipaly,
walls and revetments                     andIarran       ncsary
to natural materials.                    compensation (usually land-for-land).
37



