Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3805 ALB 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Community Works Project) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Page  2
2
Dated July 24, 2003 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3805 ALB 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 2003, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Albanian Development Fund (ADF) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available 
to ADF, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ADF 
(the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“ADF” means the Albanian Development Fund, established as an 
independent entity with juridical personality pursuant to Government Decision No. 427 
of September 8, 1994, amended by Government Decision No. 207 of April 28, 1999; 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
(b) 
“Beneficiary” or “Beneficiaries” means governmental or non-
governmental entities such as villages, communes, municipalities, or associations which 
propose to carry out Sub-projects under Part A of the Project; 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
ADF, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on February 13, 2003, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
May 6, 2003; 
(f) 
“Regulations and Operational Guidelines” means the guidelines 
containing the administrative, financial, environmental, promotion, appraisal and 
supervision criteria and policy framework regarding land acquisition to be followed by 
ADF and to be approved pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out by 
a
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a grant under Part A of the Project; and 
(i) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and ADF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,900,000). 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project (except Part A of the Project) 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by ADF on account of withdrawals made respectively by 
Beneficiaries under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Part A of the Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing 
November 15, 2013 and ending May 15, 2023.  Each installment shall be five percent 
(5%) of such principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. ADF is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall cause ADF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of ADF therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable ADF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to ADF 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or otherwise alter and shall not cause or enable ADF to amend or otherwise 
alter the Regulations and Operational Guidelines. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ADF 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
ADF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ADF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
The Regulations and Operational Guidelines shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Association, the carrying out of the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ADF; and 
(b) 
the Government Decision No. 207 dated April 28, 1999 has been 
amended by the Council of Ministers in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ADF 
and is legally binding upon ADF in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ADF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ADF in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
 
Tirana 
 
Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355 42 28495 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By: /s/ Kastriot Islami 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Eugen Scanteie 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Grants 
under 
8,780,000 
90% 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
 
under Parts B and C 
 
of the Project 
440,000 
85% 
 
 
(3) Training 
150,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Goods under  
 
100% of foreign 
 
Parts B and C 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of the Project 
80,000 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
85%
of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
(5) Incremental 
 
 
Operating Costs 
730,000 
80% until December 31, 
 
2004,
60% until  
 
December 31, 2005,  
 
40%
until December 31,    
 
2006,
and 20% thereafter 
 
(6) 
Refunding of  
370,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
350,000
TOTAL 10,900,000
Page  13
-
11
-
11
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means operation and maintenance 
costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia, costs 
with respect to: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the 
Project; (ii) salaries paid to ADF staff, other than civil servants’ salaries, hired for 
purposes of the Project; and (iii) consumable office supplies, communications, fuel, travel 
and per diem allowances for ADF staff;  
(d) 
the term “grants” means financing for Sub-projects under Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the Regulations and Operational Guidelines; 
 
(e) 
the term “training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with carrying out training activities under the Project, including travel costs 
and per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities 
and equipment and training materials and related supplies. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (1) for Part A of the Project, unless the 
Regulations and Operational Guidelines have been revised and approved by ADF in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) works not 
exceeding $150,000 equivalent; (ii) goods; (iii) consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent and for individual consultants not exceeding $25,000 equivalent; and 
(iv) training and incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower to promote 
community development based on the development priorities of local governments and 
communities; and (b) to build the capacity of local communities and local governments to 
promote local economic development. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Community Sub-projects Program
Provision of grants for Sub-projects to Beneficiaries for, inter alia: 
(a) rehabilitation of roads; (b) repair or extension of water supply and sewerage systems; 
(c) repair and rebuilding schools and health centers and other public buildings; 
(d) establishment or rehabilitation of market facilities; and (e) establishment of social 
service delivery programs. 
Part B
:
Local Government and Community Capacity Building
Provision of training and technical advisory services to local government staff, 
ADF staff and to communities in, inter alia, subproject evaluation, implementation and 
maintenance; environmental awareness; and procurement.  Establishment of a program of 
participatory monitoring and evaluation. 
Part C
:
Project Implementation Support
Improvement of ADF’s institutional capacity in, inter alia, evaluating the impact 
of its operations, and identifying, preparing, appraising, supervising and promoting Sub-
projects, and carrying out capacity building activities for communities and local 
governments, through provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to ADF. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2008. 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
