Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3805 ALB 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Second Community Works Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND 
 
Dated July 24, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3805 ALB 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ALBANIAN 
DEVELOPMENT FUND (ADF). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,900,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ADF agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ADF, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to ADF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS ADF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) ADF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ADF shall otherwise agree, ADF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consulta
nts’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) ADF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ADF shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and ADF, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with ADF on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. ADF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADF shall not take or 
Page  5
-
3
-
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) ADF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
ADF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ADF of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ADF 
 
Section 3.01. ADF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. ADF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and 
financial practices. 
 
Section 3.03. ADF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  ADF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b) ADF 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon ADF’s reporting obligations set out in 
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2, ADF shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
Page  7
-
5
-
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of ADF 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify ADF of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or pe
rmitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
Page  8
-
6
-
Page  9
-
7
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For ADF: 
 
Albanian Development Fund 
 
Rruga Durresit 
 
Instituti I Tokave 
 
Tirana, Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355 4 234 885 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADF, or by ADF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director of ADF or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director of ADF shall designate in writing and ADF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Eugen Scanteie   
Authorized Representative 
 
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND 
 
By: /s/ Maksin Mitrojorgji  
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) General
Except as otherwise provided in Part B.4 of this Section,
 
works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
(i) 
invitation to bid shall be advertised locally in regional 
newspapers and in at least two national newspapers with wide 
circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids; 
(ii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process.  Government-owned enterprises in Albania 
shall be permitted to bid only if they are legally and financially 
autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Borrower; 
(iii) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
Page  12
-
10 - 
(iv) 
procuring entities should use the bidding documents approved by 
the Association prior to their issue to bidders; 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the 
representatives of bidders; 
(vi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of comparison with 
an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(vii) 
in case of less than three responsive bids, all bids may be 
rejected and new bids may be solicited without prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
(viii) 
a single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of 
bids; 
(ix) 
post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest 
evaluated bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid 
opening on qualification grounds; 
(x) 
bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and 
severally liable; 
(xi) 
bidders may be required to submit bid securities in an amount 
appropriate to the estimated value of the contract and in a form 
acceptable to ADF; 
(xii) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior 
concurrence of the Association shall be obtained; 
(xiii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially 
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform 
in accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation 
criteria;  
(xiv) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; and 
Page  13
-
11 - 
(xv) 
contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain 
appropriate price adjustment provisions. 
2. International 
Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in Part B.3 of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to the first two contracts under Part B.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Cons
ultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for
 its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  16
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. ADF 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 30, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
Under Part A of the Project, ADF shall: 
 
(a) 
make available to the Beneficiaries grants referred to in the Regulations 
and Operational Guidelines under agreements to be entered into between ADF and each 
Beneficiary, under the terms and conditions referred to in the Regulations and 
Operational Guidelines and which shall have been approved by the Association; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect the 
interest of the Association and ADF and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or any provisions 
thereof. 
3. ADF 
shall: 
 
(a) 
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise 
the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their respective 
agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
(b) 
not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for review and comment, work plans and budgets for activities under each 
Part for the next calendar year, which would include, among other things, specific 
proposals for the use of Borrower’s contribution; and  
 
(c) 
by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 30 of each year, prepare 
and furnish to the Association for review a report, of such scope and detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution of the Project. 
4. 
ADF shall, until the Project completion, employ an executive director whose 
experience and qualifications shall be at all times acceptable to the Association and to 
consult with the Association with respect to replacement of the executive director of ADF 
prior to replacement. 
 
