                                            Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                               Report No: ICR 0000839




                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                          (IDA 3805 ALB)

                                                ON A

                                              CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.9 MILLION
                                 (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO

                                             ALBANIA

                                               FOR A

                           SECOND COMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT




                                           March 30, 2009




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective ­ October 27, 2008)

                 Currency Unit = Albanian Leke
                      ALL 1.00 = US$ 0.01
                       US$ 1.00 = 98.41 ALL

                          FISCAL YEAR
                    [January 1 ­ December 31]

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADF       Albanian Development Fund
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community Based Organization
CMG       Community Monitoring Group
CWP       Community Works Project
EA        Environmental Assessment
EMMP      Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation Plan
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
FMR       Financial Management Report
GoA       Government of Albania
INSTAT    Institute of Statistics
LDP       Local Development Plan
LGU       Local Government Unit
LSMS      Living Standards Measurement Study
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
MoP       Manual of Procedures
MTR       Mid Term Review
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NSSED     National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development
O&M       Operations and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PM&E      Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
SSDP      Social Services Delivery Project
WP        Work Plan




              Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
           Country Director:        Jane Armitage
            Sector Manager:         Caroline Kende-Robb
          Task Team Leader:         Radhika Srinivasan

                                                                  ALBANIA


                                      SECOND COMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT


                                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS



A. Basic Information.................................................................................................................................... i
B. Key Dates................................................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary.................................................................................................................................... i
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...............................................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile............................................................................................................................... v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................................... 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................................. 14
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................................... 17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................................. 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis............................................................................................. 23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................................... 26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results....................................................................................................... 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................................ 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................................... 39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................................. 40

MAP 33359

A. Basic Information

                                                                             Community Works 2
Country:                 Albania                    Project Name:
                                                                             Project
Project ID:              P077297                    L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-38050,TF-52491
ICR Date:                02/26/2009                 ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                             ALBANIA
Original Total
                         XDR 10.9M                  Disbursed Amount:        XDR 10.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Albanian Development Fund (ADF)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

       Process              Date                Process           Original Date      Revised / Actual
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:          02/25/2003      Effectiveness:            09/30/2003           03/04/2004
Appraisal:               05/12/2003      Restructuring(s):
Approval:                06/24/2003      Mid-term Review:         03/01/2006            04/21/2006
                                         Closing:                 09/30/2008            09/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings                   Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory               Government:              Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory               Implementing
                                                    Agency/Agencies:         Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory               Performance:             Satisfactory




                                                   i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                    QAG Assessments (if
        Performance                   Indicators                  any)                    Rating

Potential Problem Project at
                              No                       Quality at Entry (QEA): Highly Satisfactory
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                              No                                               None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                     20                   20
Other social services                                                     20                   20
Roads and highways                                                        40                   40
Sub-national government administration                                    20                   20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                                         Secondary           Secondary
Other social development                                                 Secondary           Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                                        Primary              Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                        Secondary           Secondary


E. Bank Staff
          Positions                            At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:               Shigeo Katsu                            Johannes Linn
Country Director:             Jane Armitage                           Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:               Caroline Kende-Robb                     Alexandre Marc
Project Team Leader:          Radhika Srinivasan                      Mark C. Woodward
ICR Team Leader:              Radhika Srinivasan
ICR Primary Author:           Aditi Sen




                                                      ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To alleviate local bottlenecks hindering development (including infrastructure and services) through
processes of participatory local development. To be achieved as a result of: (1) improving access to
quality social and economic infrastructure and social services; and (2) promoting institutional
development at the local level. The PDOs in the PAD are not identical to those in the Credit Agreement
as discussed in section 1.2.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                     Original Target         Formally           Actual Value

    Indicator            Baseline Value               Values (from                               Achieved at
                                                        approval          Revised Target    Completion or Target
                                                       documents)             Values                Years
Indicator 1 :     Satisfactory technical audits of sub-projects
Value
quantitative or   0                               95%                                       90% satisfactory or

Qualitative)                                                                                highly satisfactory

Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                                09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %          10% of the sub-projects were rated moderately satisfactory.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :     Beneficiary satisfaction based on representative sample of 156 completed sub-projects (%
                  rated S or HS)
Value
quantitative or   0                               95%                                       95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                                09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of individual beneficiaries of sub-projects
Value
quantitative or   0                               120,000                                   482,046
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                                09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %          The reason that the actual value far exceeds the target value is that in many road sub-projects,

achievement)      the beneficiary population served exceeded what was originally anticipated.

Indicator 4 :     Quality of local development plans (LDPs) designed by selected LGUs for the Participatory
                  Local Development Pilot (% rated S or HS)
Value
quantitative or   0                               80%                                       85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                                09/30/2008


                                                        iii

                   The quality of LDPs was assessed as part of the beneficiary assessment. The LDPs
Comments          were judged against two criteria - the extent to which the LDP process was inclusive
(incl. %          and participatory, and the content and implementation of the plans. (Details are
achievement)      included in Annex 5).

Indicator 5 :     Quality of maintenance plans (% rated S)
Value
quantitative or   0                              85%                                      85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                              09/30/2008
                   Quality of maintenance (and maintenance plans) was evaluated as part of the post-
Comments          construction O&M evaluations/audits carried out by ADF. They were judged against a
(incl. %          range of benchmarks (depending on the type of sub-projects). For example, for roads
achievement)      the indicators were road surface, drainage, access, availability of human, financial and
                  material resources for maintenance.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                     Original Target        Formally            Actual Value

    Indicator             Baseline Value              Values (from                               Achieved at
                                                        approval         Revised Target   Completion or Target
                                                       documents)             Values                Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of sub-projects completed
Value
(quantitative     0                              approximately 180                        156
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                              09/30/2008
Comments          The number of sub-projects is less than the target value because the cost ceiling for individual
(incl. %          sub-projects was raised during implementation. The cost of materials and service providers
achievement)      also rose due to price increases in Albania and the depreciation of the US dollar.
Indicator 2 :     Number of local government units (LGUs) and communal technical staff (CTS) trained

Value                                                                                     207, including 139

(quantitative     0                              200                                      (LGU units)

or Qualitative)                                                                           68 (Commune
                                                                                          technical staff)
Date achieved     03/15/2004                      09/30/2008                              09/30/2008
Comments          Cumulatively, the Project financed 26 training cycles involving 2,430 local government
(incl. %          officials, commune and technical staff, local service providers, community members, and ADF
achievement)      staff.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 No.        Date ISR                                                                      Actual Disbursements
            Archived                   DO                              IP                    (USD millions)
   1       07/07/2003              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         0.00
   2       11/18/2003              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         0.00
   3       05/25/2004              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         0.95
   4       11/08/2004              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         1.21



                                                        iv

   5    04/13/2005         Satisfactory       Satisfactory     1.23
   6    12/05/2005         Satisfactory       Satisfactory     6.26
   7    05/23/2006         Satisfactory       Satisfactory     9.22
   8    03/19/2007         Satisfactory       Satisfactory    11.13
   9    11/20/2007         Satisfactory       Satisfactory    14.00
  10    05/13/2008         Satisfactory       Satisfactory    14.58



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative):

1.1. Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance):

Country and sector background: Albania has made significant progress in its transition to a
market-based economy. The government has pursued major structural and economic reforms
and has made notable advances in establishing democratic institutions. Following a sharp
contraction in the early transition years (1991-92), GDP grew by about 9% annually in real
terms between 1993 and 1996. However, with the collapse of the pyramid scheme in 1997,
economic growth fell by 7 % in real terms. Following the crisis, the government initiated a
recovery program which resulted in high GDP growth rates of around 5 to 6 %per year.
Despite this impressive performance, poverty remains high. Per capita income (around
US$1,100 in 2003) is one of the lowest among transition economies.

As part of the government's economic recovery program, it prepared the National Strategy for
Socio-Economic Development (NSSED) which identifies Albania's main development
challenges: weak law enforcement; corruption; an unattractive investment climate; low quality
and inaccessible social services, especially in education and health; poor infrastructure; and a
shortage of basic necessities, including water, sanitation, and heating. The NSSED also
recognizes that weak governance and institutions are at the root of Albania's developmental
problems, and that stronger public accountability and increased public participation is essential
for empowering the poor in decision-making.

In early 1993, with World Bank assistance, the government launched a rural poverty alleviation
program, which included a community-based infrastructure works program to generate
employment and inject cash into rural areas, improve infrastructure on a demand-driven basis,
and enable economic development. The Albanian Development Fund (ADF), established by
the government after the collapse of communism in 1991, was responsible for implementing
the program which involved numerous IDI-financed projects, including four Bank investments
aimed at rural poverty alleviation. Among these, the Community Works Project (CWP I) was
designed to support small infrastructure works and strengthen ADF's capacity to include local
government and community participation in local economic development. During
implementation, ADF was successful in involving local governments in economic development
and related decision making, but was not able to consistently involve community participation.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: The Bank's assistance in CWP II was important for several
reasons. First, the Bank was well placed for supporting the government in providing critically
needed infrastructure in rural areas. Based on its experience under CWP I, the Bank was fully
equipped to build on the lessons learned and the strengthened capacity of ADF to introduce
greater participation of both local government and the community in designing and
implementing local infrastructure investments. Second, the Bank was the most qualified
among the donors to provide high quality technical advice and guidance for strengthening local
institutions. Third, the project's objectives were consistent with two of the World Bank's 2002
CAS objectives of (a) improving governance and strengthening institutions and (b) promoting
sustainable private sector growth.



                                            1

1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) (as approved):

In the PAD, the development objective of CWP II was to alleviate local bottlenecks hindering
development (including infrastructure and services) through processes of participatory local
development as a result of:
      i.   improving access to quality social and economic infrastructure and social services
           through sustainable micro-projects; and
     ii.   promoting institutional development at the local level.
The objectives in the Credit Agreement, though written differently, are broadly consistent with
those of the PAD. They are: (a) to assist the Borrower to promote community development
based on the development priorities of local governments and communities; and (b) to build
the capacity of local communities and local governments to promote local economic
development.

To cover all elements of both PDOs, this ICR assesses results in terms of the following:
1.   Improve access to quality social and economic and infrastructure services through
     sustainable community sub-projects;
2.   Build capacity of local institutions; and
3.   Promote participatory processes for community development.

1.3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification:

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4. Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised (briefly describe the "the primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to
benefit from the project)

The project's main beneficiaries were local communities in both rural and urban areas country-
wide. Proportionally, however, the project directed more funds to poor communities in rural
areas selected through the use of poverty indicators (see section 2.5). In addition, LGUs were a
main target group for the project because they were the primary beneficiaries of the capacity
building activities.

1.5. Original Components (as approved):

Component 1: Community Sub-Projects

This component was to finance sub-projects aimed at improving local communities'
infrastructure. The sub-projects covered both rural areas and suburban areas, and were based
on the priorities of local governments and communities. The sub-projects were to include rural
and suburban roads, water supply, sewerage, repairs in schools and community centers, and
footbridges. In some cases, the component also would finance social service activities to be
carried out in and around rehabilitated infrastructure. Typically these would include activities



                                            2

in community centers for children, youth, the elderly, or other vulnerable groups. Local
governments would contract out the implementation of works to local construction contractors.

Component 2: Capacity Building

This component was to finance training and technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of
local government, communities, and ADF staff in local development planning and sub-project
planning and implementation. The component would include three programs: capacity building
for ADF staff; local government and community capacity building, and a pilot program that
introduced methods of participatory local development planning in 13 communes.

Component 3: Project Implementation Support

This component was to support the implementation of CWP II by financing a portion of ADF's
operating costs (maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the project;
salaries paid to ADF staff (other than civil servants' salaries) hired for purposes of the project;
as well as office supplies, communications, fuel, travel and per diem allowances).

1.6. Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

1.7. Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations):

There were no significant changes.

2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design Stage, and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigation identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Quality at entry was satisfactory. The project design was based on sound analyses of the
economic, financial, technical, institutional, environmental, and social aspects of the project
context. The cost-effectiveness economic analysis showed that the sub-projects would yield
high economic returns. The financial analysis demonstrated that cost recovery from local
beneficiaries would be an important means for ensuring the sustainability of sub-projects. The
technical analysis showed that the design of works could be improved by such measures as
establishing standard technical guidelines and cost standards for each type of investment and
by requiring more effective supervision by the commune and municipality. On the basis of a
comprehensive analysis of institutional issues under CWP I, the project assigned priority to
strengthening the capacity of ADF to work with local governments and communities, and
incorporated greater attention to human resource management and financial management
issues than had been the case under CWP I. As a result of the social analysis which built on
the lessons learned under the previous project, the project design demonstrated full attention to



                                            3

the need for increased voice and participation of project beneficiaries as well as increased
transparency of the institutions that serve them.

Lessons from earlier operations. The project incorporated important lessons from 10 years of
experience implementing investments in rural and urban development and poverty alleviation
projects. CWP II was designed to continue support for the country's development priorities
and decentralization agenda, while providing significant improvements over the previous
project. In addressing the shortcomings of CWP I, the project was designed to: (a) emphasize
empowerment of both local government and communities, giving the latter a stronger voice in
investment planning than what was achieved under CWP I; (b) build the capacity of local
communities and local governments in local development planning and implementation; (c)
build the capacity of ADF in facilitating the dialogue between local government and
communities in setting development priorities and implementing the sub-projects; and (d)
provide stronger poverty targeting for sub-projects across the country. Other main lessons
from CWP I were the need to bring ADF closer to the local level by including more local
government representatives on the board of directors, and the need to strengthen donor
coordination so as to harmonize procurement and audit procedures.

Adequacy of Government Commitment. The Government demonstrated strong commitment
through its repeated requests for a follow-up project and a PPF. In addition, the government
provided its full support for the participatory approach for local development planning and the
involvement of beneficiaries in identifying priority infrastructure needs.

Assessment of risks. The Bank carried out an objective assessment of risks, and appropriately
identified and rated the most critical ones: the need for adequate attention to quality and
sustainability of sub-projects, the extent of political influence in decisions regarding sub-
project investments, ownership of local governments to the project objectives, and the capacity
of ADF to carry out implementation.

2.2 Implementation

(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Implementation was satisfactory. The sub-projects were rolled out in two phases: Work Plan
1 (WP1) sub-projects were initiated in early 2005 and Work Plan 2 (WP2) sub-projects were
initiated in 2006 and 2007.

Through its supervision missions, including the Mid-Term Review (MTR), the Bank noted that
while progress was satisfactory overall, there was a need for some improvement in some
aspects of sub-project design and implementation: setting clear criteria for sub-project
selection; ensuring adequate attention to the technical quality of sub-projects; and expediting
training for LGUs, community members, and ADF staff in procurement and technical
supervision. Key improvements introduced as a result of the MTR were:

· Stronger attention paid to technical quality through improved requirements for design,
    procurement, supervision of works, and operations and maintenance (O&M). This included



                                            4

    clearer ToRs for designers and supervisors, improved technical specifications and design
    standards, improved documentation, better training, and the contracting of a consulting
    firm to assist ADF in supervising the technical quality of sub-projects.
· More transparent criteria for sub-project selection. They were based on a comparative
    ranking procedure that assessed each sub-project's expected social, economic, financial,
    and environmental impacts as well as the technical merits and LGU poverty indicators, all
    against commonly agreed parameters. In WP1, local councils, communes, and qarks (i.e.,
    regions) were involved in the selection process. In WP2, the process was enhanced
    through the application of clear criteria to enhancing transparency and minimize the
    perceived risk of political influence.
· Introduction of a comprehensive participatory process for identifying local investment
    priorities. In time, increased attention was given to deepening the quality of participation
    in sub-project identification, implementation, and supervision. Social inspectors took on a
    more active role, and Community Monitoring Groups (CMGs) received training to
    strengthen their role in monitoring procurement procedures and works.
· Greater attention to building ADF's institutional capacity by improving the transparency of
    its internal financial management processes and by establishing clearer roles for ADF staff,
    especially the social inspectors.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. Project documents specify a comprehensive list of indicators to track project
performance. The project was designed with a view to strengthening ADF's monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) capacity which had been historically weak. Based on the lessons from CWP
I, the M&E system aimed to enhance the Management and Information System (MIS) and
introduce a participatory monitoring and evaluation pilot (under the local development
planning pilot of the capacity building component). The project also envisaged a quantitative
ex-post impact assessment using LSMS data and propensity score matching to gain insight into
project impact. However, the project was not designed with a clear results framework because
it was conceived at a time when the results framework approach was a relatively new concept.
As a consequence, the performance indicators are more output rather than outcome oriented.

During project design, it was expected that the ex-post impact evaluation would draw on
LSMS data to supplement project monitoring. However, contrary to expectations, the
sampling strategy of the LSMS did not take into account CWP II sub-projects. Thus, there was
insufficient overlap between the LSMS survey sample and CWP II communities to draw robust
conclusions.

Implementation and Utilization: Data collection was an integral part of project
implementation. Physical works were monitored on an ongoing basis by ADF's social and
technical inspectors, and beneficiary assessments (BAs) and technical audits were also carried
out on a periodic basis. Over the course of the project, there were some improvements in
ADF's M&E capacity. The MIS system was strengthened; it now uses a more robust database
technology platform with stronger data quality controls to facilitate project management.
M&E capacity was also strengthened through recruitment of new personnel and staff training.
However, the following weaknesses remain: (a) insufficient baseline data; and (b) the
complicated design of the participatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E); that is, the PM&E


                                             5

         groups in the LDP pilots did not have a clear understanding of their responsibilities. Despite
         these deficiencies, the monitoring data were used throughout project implementation in
         informing decision making related to resource allocation as well as maintaining up to date civil
         works procurement and cash flow plans.

         2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
         (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable):

         The borrower was in compliance with project covenants and World Bank regulations. Audit
         reports confirm that financial management arrangements were generally satisfactory. The
         project was appropriately given an environmental category "FI" (Financial Intermediary)
         because the sub-projects were not known at appraisal. Although no major environmental
         issues were anticipated, sub-projects under CWPII had an environmental mitigation plan
         (EMP) and an environmental mitigation monitoring plan (EMMP). Environmental reviews
         found no negative environmental impacts. As included in the operational manual, civil works
         included rehabilitation of existing structures and consequently, the need for land acquisition
         was minor with no displacement of people. Land issues are discussed as part of the public
         review of the sub-project design and land was either donated voluntarily or compensation was
         paid by the benefiting LGU. The technical specifications for contractors specified that there
         would be no removal of illegal structures. The land acquisition process was carefully
         monitored and documented by ADF.

         2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
         (including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
         present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
         institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

         Based on weaknesses found during the previous project, CWP II included increased attention
         to operations and maintenance (O&M) through an O&M agreement with each LGU. The O&M
         plans indicate the likely O&M requirements for each type of subproject: typical tasks,
         frequency, human and material resources required, and costs. In the second phase , O&M
         plans were more detailed and disaggregated into a plan for each of the first five years. CWP II
         also developed stricter maintenance guidelines1 and introduced post-construction O&M
         evaluations/audits. Although many sub-projects have only recently been completed and
         several are still in the warranty period, internal assessments indicate that O&M is satisfactory
         or highly satisfactory in over 90% of the sub-projects. Interviews with ADF and LGU staff
         during implementation confirmed that there is an increased awareness and commitment to
         maintenance. At the same time, the constrained financial capacity of LGUs presents an
         ongoing challenge.

         From the institutional perspective, the project played a catalytic role in building ADF's
         capacity as a development organization. CWP II provided the opportunity to expand ADF's
         role in executing small infrastructure investments and the country's evolving decentralization
         agenda. The project also strengthened its capacity in community mobilization and

1For example, are the culverts and channels more than 25% full of sediment? Is the vegetation in the channel more than 10
cm high? Are the potholes larger than 3 cm diameter?



                                                          6

participatory local development planning, as demonstrated by the range of government and
donor- financed projects it currently implements. Long term options for ADF to become a
potential conduit for EU funds in the context of EU accession, continue to be explored.

3.    Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's overall objectives were relevant to the country's priorities during preparation and
remain relevant today. The objectives also are consistent with the 2006 CAS goals. During
preparation, the Government's priorities included the alleviation of rural poverty, providing
greater access to infrastructure, deepening the decentralization process, strengthening local
government capacities, and increasing the transparency and level of community participation.
The project aimed at facilitating beneficiaries' access to much needed basic infrastructure
services, while supporting the decentralization and governance agenda by building the capacity
of LGUs to involve communities in development decision making. The project also addressed
some of the main challenges to decentralization (that is, low institutional capacity,
transparency, and accountability of local governments) by providing training to local
governments in investment planning and service delivery. By ensuring increased community
participation in decision-making, the project also promoted a culture of greater accountability
at the local level.

Despite the significant progress made since the transition, Albania's growth continues to be
constrained by weak governance and infrastructure bottlenecks. Further, in many rural and
mountain region areas, both basic coverage and quality of infrastructure services such as roads,
running water, and sanitation are low (less than 50 percent of rural households have running
water or toilets). Thus the project's objectives remain relevant because they address the
Government's continuing priority to reduce poverty by improving access to infrastructure
services in rural areas through its poverty targeting methodology. Governance also is a key
pillar in the 2002 CAS, and integral to the 2006 CAS. The project supported at least three of
the latter's four governance filters - efficient and transparent use of public resources, support to
decentralization, and strengthening mechanisms of citizen participation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2):

The project met its objectives as stated in both the PAD and the Credit Agreement.

1. The first objective of improving access to quality social and economic infrastructure
services through community sub-projects has been achieved and is rated satisfactory. The
key performance indicators for this PDO are: number of beneficiaries, number of sub-projects,
beneficiary satisfaction, technical quality of works, and adequacy of maintenance. These
indicators are discussed below along with other relevant information.

CWP II investments resulted in 156 sub-projects and 482,046 beneficiaries with wide



                                              7

geographic coverage. The project covered all qark and districts of the country. Almost 1 in 3
communes benefitted from CWP II investments in critical infrastructure such as roads and
water supply systems. In addition, 6 community center sub-projects were equipped and
functional by September 2008. Demand for training at these centers was high and some local
and international agencies used some of the facilities to implement training and development
activities.




The satisfaction level of beneficiaries is high; beneficiary assessments confirm that 95% of the
beneficiaries are satisfied with the sub-projects. In addition, 90 % of the beneficiaries said that
the investments facilitated better access to vital services, and about 80% claimed that the
project had a positive impact on living conditions in their community as a result of improved
access to markets, improved employment opportunities, and reduced migration from rural
areas. Over 95% of the beneficiaries are satisfied with the technical quality of works.

Technical audits indicate that 90% of the sub-projects are of satisfactory or highly satisfactory
technical quality. The audits measured technical quality against pre-defined criteria such as
road surface, adequate drainage, and well-constructed structures. While the audits indicate that
the overall quality of works was satisfactory, there were a few instances when Bank
supervision missions raised the need for improvements (i.e., improving the design of drainage
arrangements for gravel roads). Additional improvements in technical quality were achieved
through the introduction of standard ToRs for designers; minimum design parameters for each
type of sub project; more effective supervisor presence on site during implementation of
works; better definition of works' specifications and standards; stronger documentation
requirements; and the active participation of community monitoring groups (CMGs).

Internal technical audits reveal that at the time of project completion, 90% of sub-projects had
satisfactory O&M (See section 2.5). CWP II strengthened attention to O&M by introducing a
longer defects-liability period before the final hand-over; formal monitoring of O&M post-
construction, and building capacity of local governments to prepare better O&M plans. To
supplement the available project monitoring data relating to the objective of improving access
to infrastructure services, the ICR mission, based on a sample of 34 projects: (a) carried out a
comparison of data from pre-feasibility and feasibility evaluations with data from the O&M
evaluations to track changes in "access to service" before and after the project; (b) collected
additional information on local development plans (LDPs), and (c) reviewed the technical
quality and O&M of works through post construction visual inspections and document reviews.



                                             8

The team triangulated empirical information with on-site focus groups and interviews. The
findings are:

(a) In the case of road sub-projects, compared to the situation prior to the investment, access to
markets, national roads, and urban areas increased by 30%, the time needed for traveling
decreased by 76%, and the volume of traffic increased by 48%.

(b) In the case of water supply projects, both the duration of water supply and quantity of water
available to residents increased substantially. Before the investments, residents typically
received water for only 2 hours a day, but now have access for approximately 20 hours a day.
The average quantity of water available has increased from 24 liters per person/per day to 131
liters per person/per day. In many communities, residents spent a substantial amount of time
transporting water prior to the sub-project; on average, it took 26 minutes a day to fetch water
which caused a significant burden for women in these communities. By establishing an inner
water network, this time has been reduced to 0.

As planned during project design, an ex-post impact evaluation study of CWP II using LSMS
data was carried out. The study indicates that CWP II had significantly improved life in
treated communities. The findings show that access to infrastructure (electricity, water,
sanitation) is higher in treated communities. Similarly, people in these communities have
improved welfare indicators as measured by higher consumption levels and better nutritional
status than their untreated control counterparts. However the LSMS data have significant
limitations (see section 7.3) and the study results need to be treated with caution (see
supporting document 9 in Annex 9 for the complete study.)

In terms of sub-project implementation, as noted in Bank supervision reports and the
Borrower's ICR, issues emerged regarding the sub-project cost ceiling. On the one hand,
limited funding sometimes meant that individual sub-projects were incomplete, as when only
part of a road was rehabilitated or a water supply systems didn't achieve full coverage of the
beneficiary community. On the other hand, the ceiling induced some communes to propose
large projects (for example, roads) so as to be able to absorb the total available amount of
funds.

2. The second objective of building capacity of institutions working at the local level has
been achieved and is rated satisfactory. The key performance indicators for this PDO are:
number of local government units trained, number of LDPs, and quality of LDPs.

The project cumulatively trained 2,430 local government officials, local service providers,
community members and ADF staff though 26 training cycles. This included 139 LGU units
and 68 commune technical staff. Capacity building activities included: (i) training for local
government technical departments, local service providers, and contractors to enable them to
better monitor and manage sub-project implementation, supervision, maintenance, and
procurement issues; (ii) capacity building for local governments to strengthen participatory
planning and resource management capacities; (iii) capacity building for community groups to
improve processes of civic engagement; and (iv) training for ADF staff to improve their
capacity in such areas as techniques of community development, supervision of tenders, new
construction techniques, quality enhancement, sub-project supervision, monitoring and



                                            9

evaluation, and the delivery of training.

The project introduced a participatory local development planning (LDP) pilot in 13
communes. The methodology was initially tested in 5 communes, facilitated by an external
NGO, and subsequently expanded to another 8 communes. The LDP pilot was designed to be
a learning process for all stakeholders (local governments, communities and ADF staff) in
strengthening the inclusive and strategic approach to development planning at the commune
level. The whole cycle of preparing the LDPs was designed as a capacity building process.
Members of the LDP group were trained in topics such as local development planning, data
collection and analysis, facilitation of SWOT analysis, facilitation of community meetings,
preparing project files, and budgeting. About 300 commune staff and community
representatives were trained on these topics. As per the independent assessment (which was
part of the beneficiary assessment), 11 of the 13 LDPs were rated satisfactory or highly
satisfactory in terms of levels of participation and the content and implementation of the plans.
(See the section on project objective 3 for a detailed discussion of LDPs.)

Qualitative assessments highlight that the capacity of local governments has increased
significantly with respect to their awareness of participatory planning approaches. As a result
of CWP II training activities, as well as the LDP process, there was a significant improvement
in the LGU capacity for participatory planning and in their ability to interface more effectively
with communities. Beneficiary assessments (BAs) highlight that approximately 55% of the
beneficiaries believe that LGU performance has improved with respect to their interactions
with communities. LGU capacities also improved in the management of procurement and
contracting as well as in O&M. However, a key challenge in sustaining LGU capacity is the
fact that there was a turnover in personnel, in some cases following local elections. Also, local
government capacity varies significantly across different parts of the country and communes
with greater economic potential tend to have higher levels of financial and human resource
capacity. The project also increased community capacity though the creation and training of
Community Monitoring Groups (CMGs). CMGs played a key role in strengthening the
involvement of communities in the identification of priorities as well as the implementation
and monitoring of works. BAs highlight that 86% of the beneficiaries consider the role of the
CMGs as positive in terms of representing their interests to the LGU and interfacing with
service providers such as contractors and designers.

One of the most striking aspects of the project has been the significant enhancement of ADF
capacities. At the inception of the project, ADF had strong technical and engineering
expertise; however, CWP II substantially strengthened its expertise in community mobilization
and local development planning. Currently, ADF is seen not only as a highly credible
institution with significant expertise in implementing infrastructure investments, but also as a
catalyst for local and regional development. It is currently managing numerous government
and donor-financed projects.

3. The third objective of promoting participatory processes for local development has been
achieved and is rated as satisfactory. Because this was considered a higher order objective in
the context of the PAD's PDO, there are no specific performance indicators to measure its
achievement. Nonetheless, the project was instrumental in promoting participatory processes
for local development.



                                            10

Sub-project investments were responsive to the priorities of local governments and
communities. Under the project, 2,521 CMGs were established and played a key role in
mobilizing communities in identifying priority investments and facilitating community
participation in sub-project design and implementation; 4,042 open meetings were organized in
2,386 villages (or 80 % of the total number of villages in Albania) and 164 neighborhoods in
60 cities. Assessments highlight that 84% of the local population participated in the process of
selection of priority investments and 96% of the beneficiaries responded that the investments
selected were in fact aligned with their own priorities. As noted earlier, the focus on
participation was stronger during the second phase of implementation, when CMGs were
assigned a stronger role in priority setting and in the implementation and monitoring of works.
However, the participation of women in the project was not as high as envisaged because
decision-making is seen as a male domain in rural Albania.

The LDP pilots played a key role in promoting an inclusive approach to local government
decision-making and in introducing a culture of strategic planning. As per the independent
assessment (part of the BA), 11 of the 13 LDPs were rated satisfactory or highly satisfactory in
terms of levels of participation and the content and implementation of the plans. The LDP
pilots introduced innovative participatory tools such as village festivals and household
interviews that allowed citizens to directly participate in priority setting, and around 3,000
people participated in this process across 13 communes. Assessments of the pilot highlight
that both citizens and LGUs recognized that the LDP increased dialogue between local
governments, local councils, and communities. Positive steps have also been taken to
institutionalize LDPs; in 12 out of the 13 pilot communes, the commune councils formally
approved the LDP as a planning document.

Key improvements were made to the second phase of the LDP pilots with a focus on better
geographic targeting and ensuring that the LGUs selected had enough of their own resources to
fund some of the LDP priorities. The second group of LDPs were also based on a cluster
approach to create a more integrated regional framework for economic development. The LDP
assessment shows that the 4 communes that had a stronger economic base are already
implementing many of the LDP priorities. Further, the LDP methodology piloted in CWP II
now serves as a guide for applying to the Government's scheme of competitive grants. It has
also been adopted by other donors such as the Council of Europe and the Islamic Development
Bank. However, challenges remain in ensuring that LDP priorities are realistic. As noted in
the Bank's supervision reports, more effort needs to be made in identifying funding sources,
and integrating LDP priorities into regional and spatial development plans.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):

The project has achieved a high level of economic efficiency and is rated as satisfactory.
Because roads constituted about 80% of the implemented sub-projects, the project monitored
cost-effectiveness of roads using unit cost indicators (see below). While the actual unit costs
are all higher than estimated at appraisal due to rise in prices and depreciation of the dollar, the
project unit costs for all roads are less than those for government and other donor delivered



                                             11

           projects.

            Road Type                    Unit Cost         Actual        Comparative           Comparative
                                         per km at        Project        Cost per km           Cost per km
                                         Appraisal       Cost per       (Government)          (Other donors)
                                           (Lek)         km (Lek)            (Lek)                  (Lek)
            Rural Roads                  4,629,744       8,311,000        19,950,000            11,480,000
            Asphalt
            Rural Roads                  2,608,743       6,180,140         8,000,000              7,000,000
            Gravel
            Urban Roads                 13,218,659 31,207,330             58,525,000          Not determined
            Asphalt

           While the PAD does not commit to an economic NPV analysis, an economic evaluation for the
           rural and urban roads that were rehabilitated or reconstructed under the project was undertaken
           using the Roads Economic Decision (RED) Model.2 RED simulates life cycle conditions and
           costs and provides economic decision criteria for low traffic road construction and
           maintenance activities in accordance with the World Bank operational guidance for the
           economic evaluation of investment operations.

           Key Assumptions used in the RED model
                · The appraisal period has been defined at 20 years, which best accounts for the
                    economic life of the reconstruction and upgrade activities under the project; with the
                    expectation that the requisite maintenance activities are done to sustain the investments;
                · A discount rate of 12% was assumed for the analysis;
                · Traffic growth has been assumed at 6%, 5% and 4% for the periods 2007-2011, 2012-
                    2020 and 2021-2025.

           Because 107 of the 156 sub-projects implemented during CWP II were road sub-projects, this
           evaluation provides a strong indication that the sub-project investments under CWP II were
           economically efficient. The cost benefit analysis demonstrates that the rural and urban roads
           component of the Community Works II project has an aggregate NPV of USD 24.5 million
           (2007 present value), and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 28 percent.

           Sensitivity Analysis
           A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to assess the robustness of the results to variations
           in key parameters; which in this case are the assumed traffic growth rates and the Value of
           Time (VOT). The analysis tested a 20% reduction in assumed traffic growth rates and a 20%
           reduction in VOT respectively. Even with changes in the critical assumptions, the project still
           remains as having been viable with net positive NPV (in the range of US$ 20 to 21 million)
           and with ERRs in the range of 26% to 27%, which are all above the Bank's 12% discount rate.




2RED estimates the net discounted benefits of each proposed intervention, in terms of the associated reduction in vehicle
operating costs, passenger travel time, and road construction and maintenance expenditures


                                                              12

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency):

Rating: Satisfactory

Achievement of the project objectives is rated satisfactory. All three elements of the PDOs
have been achieved and the project has demonstrated a strong impact on improving quality and
access to critical infrastructure services, building capacity of local institutions, and promoting
participatory processes for local development. The project was and continues to be highly
relevant to the Albanian context. It not only addressed the country's main development needs,
but supported the Government's agenda on decentralization, governance, and intuitions
through a bottom up process. Finally, the economic analysis points to the substantial
efficiency of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above):

(a)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

CWP II included specific mechanisms of poverty targeting. Sub-project proposals were
selected against a set of criteria that included measures of poverty and expected impact.
Poverty targeting was carried out at the regional level (qark) based on population and poverty
coefficients. Previously, ADF had used a targeting mechanism based on indices such as
available arable land (for rural areas) and the unemployment rate (for urban areas). During the
implementation of CWP II, more robust poverty indices were introduced. With respect to
social development, CWP II made a significant contribution in promoting more participatory
and inclusive decision-making at the local level. However, gender aspects were not explicitly
addressed in the project as women do not appear to play a major role in the decision making
process in Albania. An innovative aspect of the project was the LDP which piloted the process
of local development planning and is now being scaled up by the government and other donors.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project played a key role in building up ADF's institutional capacity. Currently ADF is
seen not only as an institution with significant expertise in implementing infrastructure
investments, but as a catalyst for local and regional development due to its having gained
significant experience in empowering local governments and communities in Albania. The
project also played a key role in strengthening the capacity of local governments and
community institutions in economic development planning and implementation (see section
3.2).

(c)   Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative):

Not Applicable




                                             13

 3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
 (optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):

A BA was carried out to assess beneficiary perceptions relating to different aspects of CWP II.
The main findings presented in annex 5, demonstrate a high level of satisifaction with project
impacts.

 4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
 Rating:     Moderate

 The sustainability of the project is primarily dependent on the technical sustainability of sub-
 projects as well as the institutional and financial sustainability of beneficiary communities and
 LGUs. In addressing risks associated with technical sustainability, several steps were taken in
 CWP II to ensure stronger attention to O&M such as the requirement to prepare specific O&M
 plans, the introduction of strict maintenance guidelines, and the introduction of post-
 construction O&M evaluations/audits. In addressing the risk to institutional sustainability, the
 project built ADF's expertise in assisting LGUs in planning and executing small infrastructure
 investments and strengthened its capacity in community mobilization and participatory local
 development planning. However, ensuring the financial sustainability of sub-projects presents
 a greater challenge, particularly for the smaller LGUs, because arrangements for covering
 O&M costs as well as ongoing investment needs were not clarified. In the case of the larger
 LGUs, sustainability plans were prepared but not necessarily implemented. If the LGUs
 cannot cover maintenance costs or given the authority to raise a tariff high enough to cover
 O&M costs, there is a risk that the proper functioning of the sub-projects will be compromised.
 Addressing this challenge will require broader recognition on the part of the government to
 accelerate the ongoing fiscal decentralization reforms that will allow local governments to raise
 sufficient revenue to cover O&M expenditures. Given the recent downturn in the global
 economy, this risk may intensify.

 5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
 (relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

 5.1 Bank

 (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
 (i.e., performance through lending phase):
 Rating:       Satisfactory

 The Bank ensured that the project design addressed important lessons under CWP I. One
 lesson was that the participatory design required clearer procedures and consistent
 opportunities for community participation. For CWP II, therefore, the Bank ensured that the
 project would place greater emphasis on establishing a clear community participation
 framework covering all phases of the sub-project (identification through procurement and
 supervision) and on building the capacity of both LGUs and local communities in identifying
 sub-project priorities and pre-selecting potential sub projects, establishing CMUs, developing
 O&M plans, and supervising maintenance arrangements, as agreed by the communities. The
 Bank also ensured that CWP II included adequate support for strengthening ADF's capacity in



                                             14

social development and participatory approaches, Under CWP I, ADF staff was dominated by
engineers with no specific training in basic social development skills and little experience in
community participation. Under CWP II, the project provided extensive training and support
for ADF's social engineers so that their work would be mainstreamed. The Bank also ensured
that the ADF Board included representatives of communes and municipalities under CWP II to
be more in tune with the ongoing decentralization process. Finally, the Bank introduced
stronger poverty targeting in response to its analysis of sub-project selection under CWP I.
Because the analysis concluded that the criterion "one commune, one project" was not
necessarily reaching the poorest villages around the country, the Bank ensured that the sub-
project selection process established under CWP II would include poverty targeting.

QAG assessed the quality of entry to be exemplary noting that the design was forward looking
in its emphasis on strengthening community participation in local government decision-
making, and in introducing local development planning. However, the results of the
framework could have been strengthened (see Section 2.3).

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):
Rating:             Satisfactory

The Bank fielded 9 supervision missions during the project's 5 years of implementation.
Missions generally took place two times a year and lasted about 2 weeks each. The missions
included foreign and local consultants who investigated a range of technical and operational
issues. In supervising the project, the task team worked closely with ADF to introduce
innovations to improve attention to technical quality and maintenance of works, ensure greater
transparency in sub-project selection, strengthen participatory processes, and develop a
strategy for ensuring its longer term sustainability after the project closed. The team also
maintained a consistent focus on the borrower's compliance with fiduciary and safeguard
policies. Despite the fact that there were two changes in task team leadership over the course
of the project, the team developed and maintained a strong and constructive relationship with
ADF.

The project development outcome and implementation were rated satisfactory at all times
during implementation. A MTR resulted in improved implementation, but no fundamental
changes in project design.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:           Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In design, the Bank responded to the
government's request for a project to expand the project to additional areas around the country,
while addressing the lessons learned in the previous project as well as similar projects in other
countries. Supervision was thorough. The World Bank team recognized early what needed to
be improved in sub-project selection and implementation, and provided the necessary guidance
for improving operations. Despite the changes in the task team leaders, there was continuity in
the team members, especially those located in Albania. All team leaders maintained a close
dialogue with the implementing agency and contributed to the continual improvement in the



                                           15

quality of project implementation.

5.2 Borrower
NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating
and justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

(a) Government Performance
Rating:            Satisfactory

The government continued to support the objectives of the project throughout implementation.
It maintained a good relationship with the Bank and provided counterpart financing on
schedule. It supported the shift in approach to participation from that under the previous
project. However, the government still needs to make further progress in its fiscal
decentralization process which would help to ensure the longer sustainability of the
infrastructure sub-projects.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:           Satisfactory

Implementing Agency: Albanian Development Fund (ADF)

Performance: ADF substantially upgraded its project management capacity in implementing
CWP II as the processes involved in CWPII differed from those under CWP I. ADF
management and staff displayed a high level of competence in implementing project activities
and in developing a strategic vision for the institution. Based on it success under CWP II, ADF
has established a solid and positive reputation with the government of Albania and the donor
community.
(c)  Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:    Satisfactory

The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The government demonstrated its
commitment to the broad objectives of the project and its approach from identification to
completion, and met its counterpart funding obligations. The implementing agency (ADF)
performed well. It adapted well to the change in approach to greater participation at the local
government and community levels, and handled procurement and financial management in
accordance with Bank guidelines.

6.   Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

In projects involving the introduction of community participation in investment planning
and development decision making, ensure that the level of participation is appropriate to
the local context. In the case of Albania, where all planning and development decision
making had been controlled by a socialist national government until 1990s, it was important to
take a gradual approach in devolving responsibility for investment planning and
implementation. This allowed the project to move in the direction of giving greater
responsibility to communities and local governments, build ownership for the investments, and



                                           16

thus encourage communities to support O&M and to sustain a culture of civic engagement.

Community works projects need to emphasize technical quality and operations and
maintenance to ensure sustainability of sub-projects. CWP II addressed the need for
improved technical quality through requirements for design, procurement, supervision of
works, and operations and maintenance (O&M). The project also provided technical assistance
to the implementing agency to ensure adequate attention to technical quality in supervising the
works. Measures also were taken to prepare clear TORs for designers and supervisors,
improve technical specifications and design standards, improve documentation, and provide
better training. Ensuring financial sustainability proved to be a greater challenge, particularly
for the many smaller LGUs that participated in the project. In the Albania context, addressing
this challenge will require broader recognition on the part of the government to accelerate the
ongoing fiscal decentralization reforms that will allow local governments to raise sufficient
revenue to cover O&M expenditures.

Managing community works projects requires a well-designed M&E system. The
experience of CWP II highlights the need to assign attention to developing robust M&E
indictors that are outcome oriented. The project also demonstrates the need for better baseline
data that can be compared against ex-post data. The use of LSMS data should only be
considered if there is a specific module for project evaluation and a proper sampling procedure
to ensure adequate coverage.

An enabling environment ensures success when introducing local development planning.
In the Albania context, the main factors that influenced the effectiveness of the LDP process
were the macro environment that fostered the decentralization, and the presence of communes
that have higher economic development potential as well as capacity to raise their own
revenues so as to implement LDP priorities. While all LGUs saw value in arriving at
investment priorities based on a long-term vision and a bottom­up inclusive process, the
institutionalization and sustainability of the LDP process is dependent upon having an adequate
enabling environment where the planning process is integrated into the local budgeting
process. There has also been an increasing recognition that local plans need to be linked to
regional and spatial development plans to promote integrated and sustainable development.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies:

The ADF staff assessed the results presented in the ICR and concluded that the report
accurately reflects the objectives, processes and achievements of this project. Key comments
are as follows:

    ·   Monitoring and Evaluation: While acknowledging weaknesses in the M&E system
        and the lack of a clear baseline, ADF highlights the project's efforts in creating a system
        of collecting baseline information as part of the feasibility study. Its internal M&E
        capacity was also substantially enhanced during the project and this capacity is
        demonstrated by the quality and rigor of the internal impact evaluation study.
    ·   Community Participation: While the ICR highlights the creation of CMGs, another
        fact which attests to the high level of community participation is the involvement of



                                             17

       319,488 citizens (almost 9% of the total population) in open meetings for the Second
       Work Plan priorities selection; out of which 65,768 or almost 21% were women and
       around 85,073 or 27% were young people.
   ·   Bank Performance: ADF acknowledges the important role that the World Bank
       played in project financing, monitoring, and supervision. Bank supervision support
       increased considerably during the implementation of the Second Work Plan, after the
       Mid-Term Review, which resulted in significant improvements in project
       implementation and helped build ADF's capacity and credibility.
   ·   Lessons Learned: The report rightly emphasizes the importance of technical quality
       and O&M in ensuring the sustainability of sub-projects. ADF also supports the
       recommendation for accelerating fiscal decentralization reforms and emphasizes that
       greater decentralization of resources should be accompanied by a corresponding
       increase in the capacity of local governments to carry out their new responsibilities
       effectively. Projects such as CWP II highlight the importance of developing practical
       tools that help local governments develop their capacities in procurement, service
       delivery, and governance.

(b)   Cofinanciers:

The Italian Co-operation provided USD2.4 million as co-financing to support the
implementation of 22 sub-projects. No comments on the ICR were provided.

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):




                                           18

        Annex 1.        Project Costs and Financing

        (a)    Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                        Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest
             Components                                                              Percentage of
                                          (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)             Appraisal

COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS                         19.20                17.92              93.33%
CAPACITY BUILDING                               1.00                 1.11               111 %
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT                                         1.80                 3.83              212.78 %

PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY                                        0.50                 0.00                0.00


                  Total Baseline Cost          22.50                22.86              101.60 %
Physical Contingencies                          1.70                 0.00                0 %
Price Contingencies                             0.00                 0.00                0.00
VAT                                             0.00                 3.13                0.00
                  Total Project Costs          24.20                25.991             107.40 %
                                                0.00                 0.00                0.00
                                                0.00                 0.00                0.00
           Total Financing Required            24.20                25.99              94.46 %




        (b)    Financing
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest
              Source of Funds                 Type of                                  Percentage of
                                            Cofinancing     Estimate       Estimate
                                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                                 2.88           5.282             183.33 %
Local Communities                                        2.08           1.98              95.19 %
International Development Association
(IDA)                                                    15.00          16.28             108.53 %

ITALY: Dev. Coop. Department (MOFA)                      2.00           2.39              119.50 %
Foreign Multilateral Institutions
(unidentified)                                           2.24           0.00                0.00




1 Includes VAT of US$ 3.13 million
2 Includes VAT of US$3.13 million


                                                   19

Annex 2.          Outputs by Component

Component 1. Community sub-projects
This component financed sub-projects aimed at improving local communities' infrastructure. Sub-projects
covered both rural areas and suburban areas and were based on the priorities of local governments and
communities. Sub-projects financed included the following.

    Type of subproject                             Financier                             % of
                                  IDA         Italian        GoA          Total          total
 road                              82           16             9           107           68.5
 water supply                      23            2              -          25             16
 sewerage                           2            2              -           4             2.5
 school                             3            -             1            4             2.5
 bridge                             4            1             1            6             3.8
 flood protection                   2            -              -           2             1.2
 community center/other             6            1              -           7             4.4
 environment                        1            -              -           1             0.6
 Total                            123           22             11          156          100.0

Component 2: Capacity Building Activities for ADF staff, Local Governments, and
Communities
This component financed training and technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of local government,
communities, and ADF staff. in local development planning and sub-project planning and
implementation. It included the following activities.

 Objective of training       Beneficiaries           Number of    Period           Provider
                                                    beneficiaries
 ECANET meeting in     ADF management staff, and         7          2004           ECANET
 Turkey                    Social Inspectors

 Project Management      ADF Social & Regional          18          2004     SETYM International
 on sub-project        Inspectors URI staff (NGO)
 identification

 Study Tour.           ADF Social, Technical and        22          2004               -
 Participatory LDP,       Regional Inspectors,
 Budgeting of LDP,         Financing Officers
 Community Driven
 Development
 ECANET meeting in     ADF management staff, and         8          2005           ECANET
 Armenia                   Social Inspectors
 Local Development      ADF Social Inspectors &         20        2005 &         Urban Institute
 Plan, Participatory         Mixtecnic staff                        2006
 Monitoring, and
 Evaluation Training
 Workshop on the sub-  ADF Regional & Technical         22          2005      ADF Internal Audit
 project design, spn,          Inspectors
 procurement, &
 implementation of
 works, O&M Plan

 Training for MIS      ADF Regional, Technical &        16          2007     ADF MIS Specialist
                           Social Inspectors




                                               20

Training for Financial     Finance Specialists        5     2007        DATECH
Software
Training on the                ADF staff             20     2007        "Albanian
decent. process, legal                                               Association of the
framework for the                                                     Municipalities"
functioning of local                                                "Albanian center for
gov. & local                                                          Integration and
budgeting, rural                                                      Development "
devel. issues
Training EU                    ADF staff             10     April-   Local Consultants
Instrument of Pre-                                        July 2008
Accesion and Alb.
perspective on
Instrument
Procedures for the     ADF Regional & Technical      20     2006     SWS Consulting
preparation of ToR             Inspectors                              Engineering
for Design /
Supervision and Tech
Specs
Environmental impact   ADF Regional & Technical      85    2006 &    SWS Consulting
and Land Safeguard       Inspectors, Designer &             2007       Engineering
issues.                Supervisor, LGU technical
                                  staff
O&M Plan of sub-       ADF Regional & Technical      85    2006 &    SWS Consulting
projects                 Inspectors, Designer &             2007       Engineering
                       Supervisor, LGU technical
                                  staff
Procurement,           ADF Regional & Technical      20     2006    WB local specialist &
contracting, impl. of          Inspectors                               ADF staff
works
Training on eval.      ADF M&E Dept. and Social      10     2006         WB Staff
mechanisms                     Inspectors

Financial                  ADF finance staff          4     2008      ILO-ITC Italy
management &
disbursement on WB
project
Procurement            ADF procurment and legal       2     2008      ILO-ITC Italy
Procedures on WB               specialists
projects
Project Management       ADF-s ID Director and        2     2008      ILO-ITC Italy
on WB projects            Project Coordinator
Environmental          ADF Regional & Technical      110    2006    ADF Environment
procedures               Inspectors, LGU staff,                          Specialist
                             designers, and
                       representatives of Regional
                        Environment Agencies.
Regional workshops     LGU elected and technical     710     2004   ADF & Mixtecnic &
on Information and      staff, Representatives of                   Local Environmental
explanation of ADF     Qark and Ministry of Local                       Consultant
procedures for              Government and
CWP II & brochures          Decentralization
Preparation for        LGU staff, CMG members.       633  December   Urban Research
participatory ident.                                       -January       Institute
sub-projects                                                2004




                                                 21

 Facilitation of LDP         LDP group members             110        2005 ­         MIXTECNIC
 process in 5 pilot                                                    2006
 communes
 Training on design,         ADF and LGU staff             105         2006-       ADF specialists
 impl. and maint. of       and designer/supervisors                    2007
 sub-projects
 Monitoring, impl.             CMG Members                 115         2007           ADF Social
 spn, reporting, and                                                                   inspectors
 public commun.
 Training in the O&M          ADF & LGU staff              63          2007-             ADF
 standards                                                             2008
 Training on                 LDP group members             208         2008              ADF
 facilitation of LDPs                                                                  LDP Unit
 in 8 communes

Component 3. Project Implementation Support
This component supported the implementation of the CWP 11 by ADF by financing a portion of ADF's
operating costs (maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the project; salaries paid
to ADF staff, other than civil servants' salaries, hired for purposes of the project; and consumable office
supplies, communications, fuel, travel and per diem allowances). Some of the key activities that were
financed in this component are as follows:

    · Management Information System (MIS): Testing of the new MIS was conducted in May-
          September of 2006. In the meantime, the old MIS continues to be used and a consultant has been
          hired to build an interface between the old and new MIS.
    · External Consultancies and Studies: MIS International Specialist; M&E International
          Specialist, International Technical Audit; Beneficiary Assessments - Local consultants;
          International Project Technical Adviser; Consultancy report on ADF's future role
    · Staff costs
    · Financial audits




                                                   22

Annex 3.          Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The evaluation of the benefits of the investments in community roads at Appraisal stage used cost
effectiveness analysis, reflecting the assumption that a minimum level of service or access is a
"social right". This type of approach is typically used to appraise investments in low volume roads
in Bank projects of this type. Since traffic volumes on the roads prior to rehabilitation are usually
very low it is difficult to forecast potential traffic volume after road rehabilitation on the basis of
pre-rehab volumes .

For the purposes of the ICR, the cost-effectiveness approach undertaken at appraisal is described in
the following paragraph. However, the availability of traffic data on the project roads also allows
the estimation of the economic benefits of the investments through the use of the Roads Economic
Decision Model (RED model). The RED approach employed is described later in the Annex.

Cost-Effectiveness (Investment Cost per Beneficiary)

Economic cost-benefit analysis alone does not reveal the full extent of social benefits accruing
from investments on rural and urban roads. As such, a cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken
at appraisal. This provides a measure as to how the project has contributed to social welfare aspects
at effective (reasonable) cost. For the project roads, the investment cost per beneficiary has been
calculated at US$ 162. Compared to a threshold of US$ 400 per beneficiary used for similar
community road projects, the contribution of the project to promoting social welfare was found to
be reasonable and highly cost-effective.

At the time of appraisal, the Government cost for rural asphalt roads was 55% higher than ADF's
cost indicating that ADF delivered rural asphalted roads more cost effectively than the line
ministry. The comparison of ADF costing estimates at appraisal versus actual project costings; and
comparison of Government and other donors' costings for rural and urban roads are summarized in
Table 1 below. The actual project costs are higher than those at appraisal due to the significant
changes in construction materials, equipment and labor prices over the past years. While the actual
unit costs are all higher than those at appraisal, the project unit costs for all roads are less than
those for Government and other donor delivered projects.

Table 1: Cost-Effectiveness Comparisons

  Road Type        Unit Cost per km       Actual Project        Comparative Cost          Comparative Cost
                  at Appraisal (Lek) Cost per km (Lek)                per km                 per km (Other
                                                                  (Government)                  donors)
                                                                       (Lek)                      (Lek)
  Rural Roads          4,629,744              8,311,000              19,950,000                11,480,000
  Asphalt
  Rural Roads          2,608,743              6,180,140              8,000,000                 7,000,000
  Gravel
  Urban Roads         13,218,659             31,207,330              58,525,000             Not determined
  Asphalt




                                                    23

Cost-Benefit Analysis (Net Present Value & Economic Rate of Return)

The economic evaluation for the rural and urban roads that were rehabilitated or reconstructed
under the project has been undertaken using the Roads Economic Decision (RED) Model. The
model is the most appropriate for road classes with relatively low traffic volumes. RED is
particularly suitable because it addresses the following concerns: (i) it reduces the input
requirements for low-volume roads; (ii) it takes into account the higher uncertainty related to the
input requirements; (iii) it clearly states the assumptions made; (iv) it computes internally the
generated traffic due to decrease in transport costs based on a defined price elasticity of demand.

The RED model performs the economic evaluation of improvement and maintenance projects by
comparing the benefits to road users and consumers of reduced transport costs to the actual costs of
the project. The main inputs are: road agency economic costs factor, the discount rate, evaluation
period, initial calendar year and population served by the road, the traffic, traffic growth rates over
the evaluation period, terrain type, pavement surface type, road condition in terms of roughness
and/or speeds, vehicle operating costs, values of time and accident costs. The economic analysis is
then undertaken by comparing the net economic benefits especially savings in vehicle operating
costs and time from the project (rehabilitation and reconstruction of rural and urban roads), the
"project scenario", against a "do nothing scenario", which is essentially the mere continuation of
the maintenance regime (routine maintenance only); and the costs of the two alternatives
respectively. The key outputs are the Net Present Value at the given discount rate and the
Economic Internal Rate of Return.

Assumptions used in the RED model

RED simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria for low
traffic road construction and maintenance activities in accordance with the World Bank operational
guidance for the economic evaluation of investment operations. RED estimates the net discounted
benefits of each proposed intervention, in terms of the associated reduction in vehicle operating
costs, passenger travel time, and road construction and maintenance expenditures. The calibration
of Vehicle Operating Costs coefficients was undertaken using the HDM-4 Vehicle Operating Costs
Model. The input data for the CBA was provided by ADF and derived from basic data collection
and experts' judgment, particularly with regard to traffic and road condition. The analysis uses a
base evaluation year of 2007.

·        The appraisal period has been defined at 20 years, which best accounts for the economic
         life of the reconstruction and upgrade activities under the project; with the expectation that
         the requisite maintenance activities are done to sustain the investments;
·        A discount rate of 12% was assumed for the analysis;
·        Traffic growth has been assumed at 6%, 5% and 4% for the periods 2007-2011, 2012-2020
         and 2021-2025;
·        Minor adjustments have been made for induced traffic due to local economic development;
·        Vehicle operating costs were computed in the RED model as a function of the road
         condition with conservative time values of USD 2and USD 1 assigned to passengers
         traveling in cars and buses respectively;
·        Accident cost estimates of USD 240,000 for fatalities, USD 40,000 for injuries and USD
         5,000 for damage only;
·        Economic costs that represent the real costs, net of all transfer payments have been
         assumed at 85% of financial costs.




                                                   24

The Results of the Cost-Benefit Analysis

The CBA demonstrates that the rural and urban roads component of the Community Works II
project has an aggregate NPV of USD 24.5 million (2007 present value), and an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 28 percent and can be regarded as economically viable. The Benefit/Cost Ratio of
the aggregate investment is 2.4, which exceeds 1, confirming that the project contributed to
economic welfare. The analysis also showed that all of the road sections had positive NPVs and
EIRRs in excess of the discount rate of 12 percent.

Sensitivity Analysis

A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to assess the robustness of the results to variations in key
parameters of which in this case are the assumed traffic growth rates and the Value of Time (VOT). The
analysis tested a 20% reduction in assumed traffic growth rates and a 20% reduction in VOT respectively.
The results of this analysis showed that even with changes in the critical assumptions, the project still
remains viable with net positive NPV (in the range of U$$ 20 to 21 million) and with ERRs in the range
of 26% to 27% which are all above the Bank's 12% discount rate. A very limited number of road sections
(only 5 out of the total 107 sections) return a slight negative NPV but these are marginal cases at 10 to
11% ERR; and do not impact the overall positive economic analysis results.




                                                   25

        Annex 4.       Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

        (a)      Task Team Members


       Names                            Title                Unit         Responsibility/ Specialty

 Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)

Bribosia, Olivier     Consultant                             ECSSD Institutional Assessment

Chase, Robert         Senior Social Development Economist     SDV  Social

Christensen, Olav     Senior Financial Management Specialist ECSPS Financial Management

Dade, Drita           Projects Officer                       ECSSD Operations

Dean, Paul            Consultant                             ECSSD Civil Engineer

Funahashi, Junko      Senior Counsel                         LEGEM Legal

Galliano, Elena       Consultant                             ECSSD Social Scientist/Community Development

Gomart, Elizabeth     Consultant                             ECSSD Participatory M&E

Hackaj, Ibrahim       Operations Officer                     ECSSD Operations

Khan, Naushad         Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSSD Procurement

Korreshi, Belita      Team Assistant                         ECSSD Procurement

Marc, Alexandre       Sector Manager                         ECSSD Social Development

Mehta, Rohit          Senior Finance Officer                 LOAFC Finance

Owen, Dan             Senior Social Development Specialist    SDV  Social Development

Poggi, Patrizia       Social Development Specialist          ECSSD Social Development

Rana, Sheetal         Consultant                             ECSSD Social Scientist (Safeguards)

Srinivasan, Radhika   Senior Social Scientist                ECSSD Social Development

Tadesse, Hiwote       Senior Program Assistant               ECSSD Operations

Warren, David         Senior Social Protection Specialist     HDN  Social Development

Wellens, Francis      Consultant                             ECSSD Civil Engineer

Woodward, Mark        Senior Social Development Specialist   ECSSD Task Team Leader




                                                         26

  Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Arisoy, Elmas         Senior Procurement Specialist             ECSSD   Procurement

Christensen, Olav     Senior Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS   Financial Management

Clert, Carine         Senior Social Development Specialist      ECSSD   Task Team Leader

Dade, Drita           Projects Officer                          ECSSD   Operations

Dean, Paul            Consultant                                ECSSD   Civil Engineer

Deane, Arsala         Consultant                                ECSSD   Social Development

Gjika, Elona          Financial Management Specialist           ECSPS   Financial Management

Herzog, Andre         Consultant                                 SDV    Local Governance

Manka, Belita         Procurement Analyst                       ECSSD   Procurement

Marginean, Diana      Consultant                                ECSSD   Social Development

Murphy, Daniel        Consultant                                 SDV    Social Development

Srinivasan, Radhika   Senior Social Scientist                   ECSSD   Task Team Leader

Tadesse, Hiwote       Senior Program Assistant                  ECSSD   Operations

Woodward, Mark        Senior Social Development Specialist      ECSSD   Task Team Leader


        (b)     Staff Time and Cost


                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle
                                                   No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                                   and consultant costs)
 Lending
  FY03                                                   36                             143.27

                                    Total:               36                             143.27
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                                   35                              93.59
  FY05                                                   31                             101.84
  FY06                                                   32                             102.55
  FY07                                                   28                              72.71
  FY08                                                   25                              97.25
  FY09                                                    8                              42.00

                                    Total:             159                              509.94




                                                        27

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Background and objectives:
The main objectives of the beneficiary assessment were: i) to evaluate the achievement of the objectives
of the project; ii) to assess the satisfaction of the beneficiaries and other key stakeholders, and (iii) and the
highlight key findings and recommendations to ADF and Donors. The focus of the assessment was on
the following questions:
    · Has the project improved access to the essential services?
    · Has the project contributed to improving the broader quality in life in the targeted communities?
    · Has the project built capacity of local institutions?
    · Has the project promoted community participation?
    · Has the project strengthened participatory planning processes at the local level?

Methodology:
The methodology combines quantitative and qualitative techniques. The sample includes 14 communities
across the different regions of Albania. 460 direct beneficiaries were surveyed and 6 focus groups were
conducted. 13 in-depth key informant interviews and 2 detailed cases studies were also carried out as part
of the assessment.

Key Findings: 95.2% of the beneficiaries said that the project intervention was satisfactory or highly
satisfactory and had resulted in a significant positive change in the living conditions of their community.
The project was also seen as having a positive impact on strengthening dialogue between local
governments and communities.

Community access to economic and social services
For roads sub-project, the field survey demonstrated that 90.1 percent of the beneficiaries think the
project had a positive impact in improving access to road/transportation services. In the case of water
supply and sanitation projects, 79.4% of beneficiaries responded that the sub-projects had a positive
impact on their lives. These projects were particularly responsive to the needs of women as they not only
resulted in improvement of hygienic and sanitary conditions but also reduced the time and physical work
required to bring the water from distant locations. According to the beneficiaries, the infrastructure
investments also resulted in improved standard of living in their communities by facilitating better access
to markets, better livelihood opportunities etc. The field survey indicates that the "Community Works II"
Project has very positively affected in 77.8 percent of the beneficiaries by improving their life in general.




                                                    28

Community participation
97.7% of the beneficiaries said that the sub-project investment responded to their major priorities. 95% of
the local governments also said that the sub-project selected was the major priority for the community.
About 36% of the beneficiaries believed that the project had strengthened community participation in
decision-making; the assessment indicated that there was a clear need for strengthening the process of
public participation particularly with respect to information dissemination. The participation of women
was also seen to be low ­ the focus groups highlighted that the fact that decision-making is traditionally
seen as being a male domain.

Capacity building of local government units (LGU) and communities
The community members see the LGU coming out of this process as stronger and closer to their interests.
When asked about this, 31% of the beneficiary community was of the opinion that the LGU-s' capacity
had improved significantly. 54% believed that LGU's had become better at interacting with the
community. LGU stakeholders also felt that their capacities had been built through the trainings that were
provided by ADF to improve sub-project management and ensure more transparent public procurement
and contracting. When asked about the establishment of the CMG in their Village/Neighborhood, 56.3 %
of the beneficiaries confirmed the CMG was established and 35.4% were not aware of the existence of a
CMG. These figures have reportedly changed from the first Work Program to the second Work Program.
In the second Work Program 76.3% of the beneficiaries affirmed the establishment of the CMG in their
Village/Neighborhood.

Local Development Pilot (LDP) Assessment
The Local Development Planning Process was a new element in the CWP II intended to promote citizens'
participation in the decision-making at the local level and act as a tool for the LGU-s and local
communities to shape their future, organize their resources and focus on priority directions versus the
traditional approach of selecting projects on an ad-hoc basis.

The evaluation focused on the following:

Participation: The preparation of the Local Development Plans has been a highly participatory process.
The methodology has foreseen direct participation of the local people through surveys or community
meetings (Village Vision Festivals). In these meetings people were asked to give their opinions on the
actual living conditions and to contribute to the vision and strategic objectives of their commune. The
participation element was quite satisfactory. During our assessment of the pilot, all the LDP groups
interviewed affirmed that the community participation was a strong point of this process. This
participation was higher on the second group of LDP-s, more people participated in the meetings because
of a better and more organized information campaign.

Content and implementation of the plans: The content of the plans is feasible and implementable. Of the
five LDP-s of the pilot, three communes have implemented around 50-60% of the action plans in the
LDP, one around 80-90% and one commune around 35 % of the action Plans. The LDPs served as a
guide to elicit resources of the commune (own income and central government transfers), to apply to the
Government's scheme of competitive grants, and to attract funds from other donors (such is the case in
the communes of Velipoja, Kastriot and Vithkuq).

The assessment findings showed that in all the communes, the projects included in the 2007 and 2008
budgets were part of the Local Development Plans. In regard to their implementation the situation is as
following: in 3 communes, Vithkuq, Xarre and Velipoje, out of 5 communes that participated in the
development of the LDPs, the implementation of the projects for each strategic sector included in the
communal development plan is at 40-60%; in the commune of Maminas this figure is at 80-90 %; and in
the commune of Kastriot, Diber Region, the LDP was implemented at 15-20%. The commune with the



                                                  29

lower implementation percentage is the commune of Kastriot, which is located in a remote mountainous
area and has limited local revenues and insufficient unconditional grants. The commune of Maminas,
which is located in a very favorable geographic position between Tirana and Durres, has not only
managed to have a high level of implementation of the projects planned under the LDP but has also
managed to implement other additional projects.

Lessons learned: A key lessons is that further emphasis needs to be made on identifying realistic
sources of funding for LDP implementation and LDPs need to be linked to formal mechanisms for
the allocation and identification of resources through multi-year budgeting processes. Linkages also need
to be developed with the territorial element or spatial planning.




                                                 30

Annex 6.     Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

  There was no stakeholder workshop. The results of the beneficiary assessment are in Annex 5




                                           31

Annex 7.         Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower's ICR

1. Project background

The Community Works Project II (CWP II) sought to support Albania's national socio-economic
strategy for the poverty reduction and sustainable development. The project was implemented by the
Albanian Development Fund (ADF). CWP II aimed to build on ADF's existing capacity as an
implementing agency for local socio-economic infrastructure by emphasizing processes of community
participation and local government capacity building.

2. Project objectives and key performance indicators

The main objective of this project was to alleviate local bottlenecks hindering development (including
infrastructure and services) through processes of participatory local development as a result of:

(1)     Improving access to quality social and economic infrastructure and social services through
sustainable micro-projects, and
(2)     Promoting institutional development at the local level.

The main indicators of the achievement of these objectives as defined by the PAD are:
· Satisfaction level of the beneficiaries
· Number of beneficiaries
· The technical quality of the sub-projects
· Adequate maintenance of the sub-projects
· The quality of the maintenance plans
· The quality of the local development plans
· Number of finalized sub-projects
· Number of units of local government and qualified technical staff

3. CWP II - Number of beneficiaries

The project had a total of 482,046 beneficiaries and covered all Qarks and districts of the country.

       Number of Beneficiaries according to the Rural - Urban Division
       Rural                            Urban                            Total
       225,300                          256,746                          482,046
       47%                              53%                              100%


4. Project Components

Component 1 - The community subprojects

This component resulted in 156 socio-economic infrastructure sub-projects over the 5 years of its
implementation. Sub-projects were selected in a participatory manner with emphasis on ensuring
technical feasibility and maximizing the development impact of investments.

The sub-projects were implemented in two work plans.


                                             32

The First Work Plan (2004-2006)
During the first work plan, 112 sub-projects were implemented. This included 81 roads, 3 bridges-
footbridges, 18 rural water supply systems, 3 schools, 2 river embankments and the reconstruction of
facades of the buildings in the main boulevard in Saranda. During this work plan the participatory
priority identification methodology was piloted in 10 communes. The methodology was subsequently
applied at the national level, and the priorities identified through this process served the basis for the
selection of the sub-projects in the second work plan..

The Second Work Plan (2006-2008)
The second work plan resulted in 44 sub-projects. This included the construction or rehabilitation of
26 roads, 3 bridges-footbridges, 7 water supply systems, 1 school, 6 community centers and 1 river
embankment.

The criteria for sub-project selection was as follows:
1. The available investment budget
2. Regional allocation of the budget
3. Priorities identified through the participatory process
4. Operation and maintenance of the projects previously implemented
5. The scores from feasibility studies

Work plan II sub-projects were based on a clear application of these criteria. Implementation processes
were also improved in the second work plan by introducing more robust procedures for technical
design and quality.

Technical quality of works
The technical quality of the works was satisfactory. During the course of the project, there were
significant improvements in design standards, Terms of Reference for supervisors and contractors, and
reporting and documentation requirements. There was also on emphasis on greater on-site verification
of technical quality. There was a high level of transparency in the procurement and contracting as a
result of the active involvement of CMGs and the information campaigns organized by ADF staff. In
the Second Work Plan, procurement information and contracts awarded were public posted on the
internet. Furthermore, the operation and maintenance (O&M) of works was also strengthened by
introducing more detailed O&M plans .

Environmental impact of works
CWP II introduced standards for environmental protection in infrastructure sub-projects based on
ADF's "Manual of Procedures" and the "Environmental Instructions" drafted by the WB in
compliance with the Albanian Law on the environmental protection. The two standard documents
associated with every sub-project were the Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) and Environmental
Mitigation Monitoring Plan (EMMP). The introduction of environmental protection measures was a
novel and pioneering feature of the project. The project also organized public consultations on
environmental issues in compliance with the Albanian Law on the environmental protection and the
Aarhus Convention on public disclosure of environmental information.

Operation and Maintenance
The project emphasized operation and maintenance of sub-projects to enhance the sustainability of the
investments. More than 90% of sub-projects had satisfactory O&M. A draft manual for O&M was also
prepared which provides detailed guidelines for the maintenance of different types of sub-projects.
Another important element was the training provided to LGU staff. Results from ADF's survey
highlights that a large number of LGUs have a greater understanding of the need for O&M and also



                                               33

have funds that are allocated to O&M. However the amount of funding available is not sufficient for
covering O&M expenses in all the LGUs.

Component II - The Capacity-Building Process

The capacity building activities were largely directed towards local governments and communities
with a view to promoting good governance, participatory planning, local institutional development and
civic engagement. A number of training sessions were organized for LGUs, supervisors, contractors
and CMGs - 41 percent of the training sessions focused on CWP II procedures, 36 percent of the
training sessions focused on participatory identification of priorities, and 23 percent of the trainings
focused on technical issues such as design of works, and operation and maintenance. In all, there were
26 training cycles which provided training to 2430 persons.

Institutional development
The LGUs were not only key beneficiaries of the project but also important actors in the sub-project
cycle. They played an important role in facilitating, contracting, implementing and monitoring the
entire process. The LGUs demonstrated a willingness to learn and had an important role in mobilizing
the community. The LGUs also provided support during project implementation by supervising the
progress of works and guaranteeing the quality of the investment.

Local Development Plan (LDP)
The LDP process was one of the key innovations introduced by CWP II. In 2005, an external
consulting organization (The Urban Institute) piloted the methodology in 5 communes. Subsequently
the methodology was applied in 8 other communes and is now an integral part local community
projects implemented by ADF. The LDPs have helped in creating a more strategic vision for the
development of the communes and promoted social inclusion by directly incorporating the ideas of
citizens into the planning process. The process resulted in well defined objectives and priorities for
achieving the strategic development vision of the commune. The methodology and the Field Guide for
the LDPs, have gone through an open process of public discussion, and these materials are available
on the official website of ADF.

Community Development
CWP II emphasized community participation in decision-making processes as well as in monitoring of
works. Community involvement has resulted in the improvement in the quality of sub-projects and has
contributed to strengthening the sense of community ownership. The project set up Community
Monitoring Groups (CMGs) which played a key role in mobilizing communities during sub-project
identification. The CMGs were also instrumental in mediating disputes and collecting community
contributions.

Institutional development of ADF
The project strengthened the capacity of ADF staff in many areas such as: the management of the sub-
project cycle; preparing participatory local development plans; monitoring and evaluation; local
economic development; decentralization framework; local finances and budgeting. In particular, the
project strengthened the capacity of social inspectors in community based local development
approaches. In addition, there were several specific technical training sessions for engineers and other
staff related to the designing & supervising works, environmental protection measures, and operation
and maintenance.




                                             34

5. Achievement of outcomes

The Community Works II Project has been successful in achieving all the main objectives of the
project. The project has resulted in the improvement in local infrastructure and services, and has
maximized the participation of all key stakeholders. The results of the external and internal evaluation
reports, the MTR and the final impact evaluation confirm that the project had a direct impact in
improving the socio-economic situation and the level of well-being of the beneficiary communities as
a result of the following:

         The improvement of the socio-economic infrastructure in municipalities/communes;
         The improvement of the access to basic socio-economic services and of the quality of these
services
         The building of capacities in communities and local authorities in planning, implementation,
and sub-projects' maintenance;
         The increase in business productivity and incomes

Key outcomes of the project are as follows:

         The improvement of transport services and roads infrastructure
         Improved access to clean water, and improvement in health and sanitarian conditions.
         Improved access to social and educational services
         Improved access to related economic services
         Positive effects on poverty reduction
         Improvement and diversification of livelihood opportunities
         Increase in citizens' participation and institutional development of the local government.

6. The Evaluation of the World Bank and Borrower's performance


ADF performance

ADF's performance has been satisfactory. ADF met the key objectives of the project and ensured the
timely disbursement of funds, and implementation of physical works. During the course of the project,
there were major improvements in ADF's own capacity. While it was previously seen as being
primarily a technical agency for infrastructure development, the project helped ADF formulate a
clearer vision. This was accompanied by strengthening the management of the institution as well as
the capacity of the staff. Over the course of the project, ADF strengthened its transparency and
developed stronger partnerships with external agencies. ADF also enjoys a strong relationship with
local governments and is widely seen as one of the most capable and credible development institutions
in Albania.

World Bank performance

As per ADF, the World Bank's performance during the design and supervision of the project was
satisfactory. World Bank support played a key role and this reflected in the project's performance. The
Bank provided crucial technical assistance in the development of the manual of procedures,
application of environmental and social safeguards, the development of better technical standards for
works. In addition, World Bank supervision missions played an important role in the monitoring of the
project's progress and ensuring the timely implementation of project activities.




                                               35

7. Lessons Learned

1. While the participatory identification of priorities was a positive feature of the project, certain
elements of the methodology were too complex for the communities which caused implementation
delays. For example, documents such as the technical pre-feasibility and the environmental pre-
feasibility required major simplification.

2. While the participatory identification processes was carried out at a national scale, only a small
number of communities and local governments were ultimately awarded grants for sub-project
implementation. By narrowing the scope of the participatory identification process, the project could
have avoided raising too many expectations.

3. Assessments consistently highlight the pre-dominance of road infrastructure projects- there is a need
to examine this more carefully.

4. The project significantly improved civic engagement but there needed to be greater emphasis on
public dissemination of information. .

5. The collection of the community contribution can be problematic especially in poorer communes ­
this risks derailing the entire sub-project. The methodology for collecting community contributions
needs to be revisited.

6. The operation and maintenance of works is mostly satisfactory but there needs to be greater
community participation in the process and many communes do not have sufficient local revenues for
adequate operation and maintenance.

7. The project has successfully demonstrated the value of LDPs. The next step would be to integrate
the LDPs with spatial plans and increase the level of expertise outside the community, particularly in
developing feasibility studies.

8. The project could have had a larger impact on local infrastructure development were it not for the
sub-project ceiling. While the ceiling was required to ensure equitable geographical distribution and
poverty targeting of sub-projects, it resulted in excluding many higher impact projects.




                                               36

Comments on Draft ICR




                         37

38

Annex 8.  Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                    39

Annex 9.         List of Supporting Documents
(In the Portal, each document can be linked to a file in IRIS or attach a new document)

   1.   Project Concept Note, February 25, 2003
   2.   Project Appraisal Document, Second Community Works Project, May 29, 2003
   3.   Project Appraisal Document, Community Works Project,
   4.   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status
        Reports/Implementation Status and Results Reports
   5.   Minutes of all Project-Related Meetings
   6.   Final Beneficiary Assessment, 2008 (Comport)
   7.   Mid-term Beneficiary Assessment, 2006 (Albanian Socio-economic Think
        Tank)
   8.   Final Impact Evaluation, 2008 (ADF)
   9.   Final Review: Sub-project Procedural, Technical, Environmental and
        Procurement Review, 2008 (Illyrian Consulting)
   10. Mid-Term Review: Sub-project Procedural, Technical, Environmental and
        Procurement Review, 2006 (Politecnica)
   11. Impact Evaluation Using LSMS data, 2008 (Amadou Diallo)
   12. Local Development Planning and Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation ­
        Progress Report, 2005 (MixTecnic)
   13. ADF ­ Towards a new vision for self-sufficiency, External Consultant's Report,
        2007 (Peter L . Dotty)




                                               40

41

