          Tanzania-ProgrammaticStructuralAdiustment Credit (Cr. No. 3379-TA)
       Release of the Privatizationand RegulationFloatingTranche - Full Compliance

                                          I.Background

 1.     Since 1995, the Borrower has shown sustained commitment to macroeconomic and
 structural reforms. Moreover, reversals inpolicy actions have beenavoidedprimarily through
buildingup-front consensus onkeyactions, evenifthis has resultedinsome delay intaking
 actions. The Borrower underscored its resolve bythe successful completiono f IDA'SSAC 1
(Cr. No. 2967-TA), for which the ImplementationCompletion Report was completed inJune,
2001; andprogress to date under the PSACl. Ithas continued to meet program benchmarks
underthe InternationalMonetaryFund(IMF) supportedEnhanced StructuralAdjustment Facility
(ESAF)/Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility (PRGF). After successfully implementing
reforms supported by the last PRGF arrangement, a new three year PRGF arrangementwas
approved by the IMFBoard inJuly 2003. ReflectingTanzania's improved external position and
to highlight the authorities' progress toward an exit from the PRGF, access under the new
arrangement i s only 10 percent o fquota. The new PRGF-supported program focuses on a three-
pronged strategy aimed at mobilizing revenue, inorder to strengthendomestic savings and
reduce aid dependency; continuing trade liberalization inorder to enhance efficiency and
strengthen the tradables sector; and improvingthe economy's supply response byremoving
impedimentsto growth, includingmeasuresto improvethe efficiency o fthe financial sector and
promoteprivate sector development. The first review o f Tanzania's new PRGF arrangement was
completed inFebruary 2004, with a positive assessmento fthe macroeconomic and structural
benchmarks and approval o f SDR 2.8 million for disbursement.

2.      The commitment was further underscored bythe agreement with the Bank and the IMFto
implement the requirementsstipulated under the Enhanced H P C program. The Borrower
presentedits InterimPovertyReduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) inMarch2000; the full PRSP in
November 2000; and Progress Reports on the implementationo f the PRSP inOctober 2001, May
2003, and April 2004, respectively. InNovember 2001 Tanzania became the fourth country to
reach the completionpoint under the enhanced framework o f the Heavily IndebtedPoor
Countries (HIPC) initiative. The first PovertyReduction Support Credit (PRSC 1) for Tanzania
was approved by the IDA Board on May 29,2003 andthe second PRSC i s expected to be
presentedto the Board duringthe first quarter ofFY05, following the completiono f all prior
actions.

3.     Based on the analysis inthe last Country Economic Memorandumfor Tanzania, Tanzania
at the Turn of the Century: From Reforms to Sustained Growth and Poverty Reduction, a wide
range o f studies andinvestor roadmaps, and interviews with awide range o f stakeholders, a
robust consensus exists on the key constraints limitingthe expansion and efficiency o f
Tanzania's private sector. The policy priorities to address these constraints can be organized
under the following headings, corresponding to the mainthematic areas covered under the PSAC
program. These are:

4.     Economic Governance: The focus i s to sustain macroeconomic stability, improve public
services delivery through improvedmanagement o f the,budget,and lower business costs and




                                                  1

 risks associated with corruption and excessive bureaucracy. The actions focus primarily on
 reestablishing a credible budget process, inwhich overall fiscal discipline i s accompanied by
 allocative and operational efficiency, and raising the Borrower's efforts to promote growth and
 support private sector development.

 5.      Business Environment: The main target i s to remove policy-related and institutional
 impediments to private investment and efficient business operations. K e y among such
 impediments are tariff barriers to smooth foreign trade, nuisance taxes at various levels o f
 government, obstacles to new investment and expansion o f old business, nontax barriersto the
 intemal and external flow o f goods, bureaucratic red tape faced by investors and exporters,
nontransparent policies and laws goveming property ownership, constraints to expanding and
 improving access to financial services, andthe lack o f mechanisms for expeditious settlement o f
 commercial disputes ina fair and transparent way.

 6.      Privatization and Regulation: Having effectively launchedthe privatization o f its
 commercial, agricultural, and industrial public enterprises (PES)during 1994-98, Tanzania has
now embarked on an ambitious and far-reaching program to divest all its major infrastructure
PESduring2000-04. To provide an effective enabling environment for attracting increased
private participation inthese key sectors inthe medium-to-long run, Tanzania has embarked on
the creation o f new sector regulatory laws and independent, cross-sectoral regulatory institutions
for a competitive regulatory environment. The PSAC program is supporting the establishment o f
effective infrastructure regulatory capacity and preparation and implementation o f Tanzania's
privatization program inkey infrastructure, bankingand insurance, and agriculture. Regulatory
reforms will be sequenced to create procompetitive regulatory environments prior to the
divestiture o fPESinthe sectors concerned.

7.       The PSAC has been structured to help the Borrower address the constraints identified
above. It i s based on the Policy Framework Paper, distributed to the Board inJanuary 1999, and
the Letter o f Development Policy, dated M a y 8, 2000 (LDP), o f the Borrower, which sets out its
medium term strategy for policy and institutional reforms aimed at supporting private sector
development inTanzania. This strategy seeks to reduce poverty through accelerating economic
growth more generally and private sector development more specifically. The principal
objectives o f the Credit are to encourage increasedprivate investment; induce greater efficiency
o f the private sector byreducing the cost of doingbusiness and enhanced competition; increase
private sector participation inthe economy through further divestiture o f keypublic enterprises,
particularly ininfrastructure services; and improve the effectiveness inthe delivery o f supportive
public services.

8.      The Credit i s currently supporting the Borrower's efforts to sustain macroeconomic
stability and improve public service delivery, deepen the implementation o f the privatization
program, improve competitiveness and the transparency o f key markets, strengthen the state legal
and commercial apparatus for a more efficient and transparent business environment, and further
reduce the barriers to intemational and domestic trade. The impact from these actions will
support accelerated growth inthe medium term by creating conditions conducive to sustained
private sector development, and spur faster poverty reduction.




                                                  2

 9.      This Credit is to be succeededby a series o fPRSCs for Tanzania, andPRSC-1 was
 approved by the IDA Board on M a y 29,2003. The objectives o f the PRSC are accelerating and
 broadening the impact o f growth, aligning public investment with the poverty reduction strategy
 goals andincreasing the efficiency o fpublic service delivery. It i s based on the PRSP and
 subsequent Progress Reports on the implementation o f the PRSP, and the Letter o f Development
 Policy, dated April 10,2003 (LDP), o f the Borrower, which sets out its medium term strategy for
 policy and institutional reforms aimed at supporting growth and poverty reduction inTanzania.
 This strategy i s inline with the principal objective o f the World Bank Group's Country
 Assistance Strategy FYO1-03 for Tanzania (CAS), approved by the Board on June 15,2000.
 Tanzania i s currently preparing a new PRSP which i s expected to be presented duringthe second
 quarter o f FY05. A new CAS for Tanzania will be preparedjointly with other donors based on
 the new PRSP and is expected to be presented to the Board duringthe second half o f FY05.

                                  11. RecentEconomicDevelopments

 10.     Since the mid-l990s, Tanzania has made substantialprogress inmacroeconomic
 stabilization and structural reforms o f the economy. At the beginning o f the reformprocess,
 economic growth was slow to pick up, but over the last five years or so it has averaged more than
 five percent. The positive development continued into 2002 when real GDP grew by about
 6.3 percent. As a result o f the impact o f the drought on agriculture, real growth in2003 may,
 however, fall short o f the initiallyprojected 5.5 percent.

 11.     Inflation remainedbelow five percent in2003. Annual inflation declined to 4.4 percent at
 end-2002 (from 4.9 percent in2001), but increased slightly to 4.8 percent by February 2004, on
 account o f food shortages. Non-foodprice inflation declined rapidly from a peak o f 9.6 percent
inJanuary 2003 to 0.6 percent byDecember 2003, as thepass-through ofutilityprice increases
byparastatals andhigher fuel prices inMay andOctober 2002 evaporated.

 12.    Higher real growth inthe agricultural sector (which accounts for almost half o f GDP) has
been accomplished through the liberalization o f marketing structures, as well as o f agricultural
prices and the foreign exchange regime. Fiscal consolidation has been central to the success in
macroeconomic stabilization. Insupport o f Tanzania's reformprogram, donors have provided
sizable financial assistance and this has almost eliminated the government's domestic financing
needs. This has again led to lower interest rates and stimulated private sector growth.

13.     Fiscal developments inFY 2002/03 were characterizedbybetter than projected revenue
performance, as well as higher-than-expected expenditure. Revenue exceededprojections by 0.3
percent o f GDP on account o f buoyant revenue from VAT, import duties andnon-tax revenue.
Total expenditure exceeded projections by 1.2 percent o f GDP, due to higher thanprojected end-
of-year catch up inrecurrent expenditures and the upward revision o f development expenditures
financed with foreign grants. Through January o fFY 2003/04, revenue exceeded projections by
0.2 percent o f GDP, as tax revenue continued to be strong, partlyas a result o f the
implementation o f measures to curtail smuggling o fpetroleum imports, and the impact o f strong
collections o f income tax. Duringthe same period, actual expenditure was 0.9 percent o f GDP
below projections, reflecting lower-than-programmed interest payments, as well as lower-than-
projected foreign and domestically-financed development expenditure. InFebruary 2004,




                                                   3

 Parliament passed a supplementary budgetwhich covers additional drought related expenditures
 inthe power sector andfor restockingthe strategic grainreserve, butalso for the replacement of
 a govemment aircraft. The additional expenditure o f about TSH 187billionis to be financed
 through a combination o f higher than budgeted program support inflows, lower than budgeted
 debt service payments, as well as additional domestic borrowing from the Bank o f Tanzania.

 14.     The discussion o f the macroeconomic framework inthe last PRS Progress Report points
 out that the continued low revenue yield i s a major challenge for Tanzania. The projected
 medium-term revenue targets are achievable, with the implementation o f a comprehensive
 strategy for the reform o f tax administration and policy. Inthis respect, the report notes
 appropriately the importance o f eliminating exemptions, as well as o f a review o f tax laws. In
 addition, the organization o f the national tax administration, the strengthening o f the Large
 Taxpayer Department, and the integration o f the VAT and income tax departments will be o f
 particular importance.

 15.     Through December 2003, the Bank o f Tanzania (BOT)maintained a tight stance o f
 monetary policy with a view to meeting the established reserve money targets. Reserve money
 and net domestic assets o f the BOTremained significantly below the December targets, as the
BOTmore stringently enforced a standing requirement for commercial banks to transfer to the
BOTtax revenue heldbythe TRA inbank accounts, and, inaddition, actively engaged inopen
market operations. As a result o f these actions, money supply growth at end-December remained
below projections bymore than 4 percentage point. The liquiditysqueeze inSeptember resulted
insome commercial banks being unableto meet reserve requirements, andledto temporarily
highinterest rates onthe interbankmarket. InOctober 2003, the liquiditysituation loosenedas a
result o f the BOT'Sinjection o f liquidity and a drawdown o f deposits bythe government.
Through December 2003, credit to the private sector increasedby 43 percent, which was
significantly above projections, fueled inpart byincreasedcompetition inthe bankingsystem,
and the reduction ininterest rate spreads.

16.     Tanzania's overall balance o f payments position improved in2002/2003 because of larger
inflows o f donor assistance and the impact o f debt relief under the HlPC Initiative. However, the
current account deficit, excluding official transfers, widened slightly. There was a strong
increase innon-traditional exports, mainly gold, combined wjth a moderate improvement in
traditional exports, reversing a declining trend. Through the first half o f 2003104, balance o f
payments developments remained inline with projections, as imports, notably petroleum
imports, accelerated and export growth was inline with expectations. International reserves
substantially exceeded projections, as scheduled debt-service payments to Japan and Brazil were
not made and the BOTsold less foreign exchange than anticipated. The exchange rate against the
U.S.dollar depreciated to T Sh 1110per dollar byend-January, andsince hasremained stable. In
real effective terms, it depreciated by about 2 percent, which combined with a modest recovery o f
the terms o f trade, improvedthe environment for exports. The exchange rate is now close to
what the IMFhas estimated as an equilibrium real exchange.




                                                  4

Table 1: SelectedEconomic Indicators

 Indicator                                         2000         2001         2002          2003    2004       2005
                                                                     Actual                           Projection
 Annual Average Inflation                           5.9          5.2          4.6           4.4     4.6        3.8
 (percent)

 Nationalaccounts, percentgrowthrates
 Agriculture                                        3.4          5.5          5.0           3.5     5.5        6.3
 Industry                                           6.7          6.4          8.5           8.7     1.4        7.1
 Services                                           7.8          6.8          6.8           6.3     6.7        6.5
 GDP at market prices                               5.6          6.1          6.3           5.5     6.3        6.5
 Real per capita GDP                                3.6          3.3          4.2           4.1     3.4        3.7

 Nationalaccounts (percentof GDP at market price)
 Gross domestic investment                          17.6         17          16.0          18.2    18.9       18.4
   Public investment                                3.4          3.5          3.3           3.9     4.8        4.8
   Private investment                               14.1        13.3          13.2         13.1    13.5       13.5
 Gross domestic savings                             9.2          8.4          9.6           10      8.6        9.1

Balanceof payments (percentof GDP at market price)
Current Acct Balance (excluding grants)            -9.9         -9.1         -7.6          -10.4   -10.8      -11.8
Current Acct Balance (including grants)            -4.0         -4.4         -2.5          -3.6    -4.8       -6.1

ExternalIndicators
Debt ServiceBxports of Goods and Services                        6.6          6.7           6.7     8.1        8.6
(After rescheduling)

Reservesinmonths o f imports                        5.7          5.3          5.9           6.7      7         7

Government Finance(percent of GDP at marketprice)/1
Domestic Revenue                                   11.3         12.0         12.1          12.8    13.2       13.4
Public Expenditure                                 17.1         16.5          17           20.8    24.6       24.9
Overall Deficit (excluding grants)                 -7.8         -5.3         -5.6          -8.2    -9.3       -8.4
Overall Deficit (including grants)                 -3.3        -1.6          -1.1          -1.7     -4        -3.8
External borrowing(net)                             1.5          1.2          1.4           2.1     3.4        3
Domestic borrowing (net)                            0.1          0           -0.3          -0.4     0.6        0.8

PrirortySector Expenditures/1                    1999/00      200o/o1     2001/02       2002/03   2003/04   2004/05
(as a percent o f GDP)
 Education                                         3.2           3.3         4.0            4.6     4.6        4.8
 Health                                             1.2          1.3          1.6           2.0     1.8        2.4
Water                                              0.2          0.2           0.4           0.5     0.6        0.7
Agriculture (Research and Extension)               0.3          0.2           0.4           0.6     0.8        1.o
Lands                                              0.0          0.1          0.1            0.2     0.1        0.0
Roads                                               1.o          1.2         2.1           2.0      2.0        2.5
Judiciary                                          0.1          0.1          0.2            0.2     0.3        0.2
rACAIDS 21                                         0.0          0.0          0.0           0.1      0.1        0.5
source: WB and IMFdatabase
Note : 11Government finance andprirority sector expenditures are calculated in fiscal year.


17.      The government has made furtherprogress inimplementingreforms inthe public
enterprise sector. At end 2002, a concession for the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage
Authority (DAWASA) was granted to a British-Germanconsortium. Meanwhile, the financial
position andmanagerial capacity o f the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (TANESCO) have
continued to improve following the introductiono f a new management team inmid-2002. The
sale o f 49 percent o fAir Tanzania to South African Airways was completed inNovember 2002.




                                                                5

 InDecember 2003, government offered49 percent ofthe shares oftheNationalMicrofinance
 Bank (NMB) for sale to a strategic investor. This will be followedby the sale o f a further 21
 percent o f shares to domestic investors.

 18.     Having made significant strides inmacro stability, fiscal sustainability and debt
 management, the Borrower's efforts have refocused on poverty alleviation. A series o f three
 annual PRS Progress Reports outlines the progress made inimplementingTanzania's poverty
 reduction strategy duringFYO1, FY02, and FY03. The implementationo f the poverty reduction
 program focused on initiatives to strengthengrowthprospects, especially inthe pro-poor sectors;
 develop an effective framework for monitoringpoverty; and elaborate strategies and cost
 interventions for the key sectors. A comprehensive HouseholdBudget Survey (HBS) was carried
 out inFYOl and the results were released inApril 2002. Results o f the poverty analysis reflect
 the decline inbasic needspovertyfrom 38.6 percent inFY92 to 35.4 percent inFYOl. The
 improvements have beenregistered inthe access to drinkingwater inrural areas, a relatively
 sharp rise inthe use o fmodem construction materials for housing(urban andrural), and
 increased access to electricity, market and public transport. The Borrower has set up an
 institutional framework for povertymonitoring, consistent with the PovertyMonitoring Master
Plan.

 19.     The budget for FY04 i s inline with commitments made inthe fullPRSP. The budget
emphasizes Wher increases inpublic spendinginthe priority sectors such as basic health,
primary education, rural roads, water, agricultural extension and HIV/AIDS. Tanzania has made
significant progress inthe priority sectors. Ineducation, a basic education sector strategy has
beenadopted, school fees at the primary levelhave beenabolished and the EducationFundto
support childrenfrom very poor families has been established. Inhealth, primary health services
andimmunization coverage have beenexpanded andpublic spendingon healthhas increased
from US$ 5.50 to US$ 6 per capita. Taxes for drugs to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and
malaria have beenabolished. Another significant achievement i s the immunization o f 78 percent
o f children under two years against measles and DPTswith a target to increase and maintain the
immunization rate at 85 percent. A roads programhas been formulated that gives priority to
selected areas o fhighpotentialfor poverty impact and to upgradingrural roads inthe 12poorest
areas. A new agriculture strategy as well as a rural development strategy have beenformulated to
address complementary problems o f on- and off-farm activities, infrastructure and
diversification. Inaddition, the borrower has created and made operational the Tanzania Social
Action Fund(TASAF) aimed at directly boostingcash incomes o fvulnerable groups that are
involved incarrying out projects chosen and managed by communities.


                          111. ProgressAgainst TrancheReleaseCriteria

20.     As described inthe previous sections, Tanzania hasmade satisfactory progress in
implementingthe program andmaintaineda satisfactory macro-economic framework.

21.     The specific conditions o freleasereferredinparagraph (d) of Section 2.02, andlistedin
Part 4 o f Schedule 2 o f the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and IDA dated




                                                  6

*July21,2000 (DCA), state that for the release o f the Privatization and Regulationfloating
 tranche the following conditions inthe areas o fprivatization andregulation must be fulfilled:

 22.      "The Borrower has: (a) presented to Parliamentfor approval the necessary enabling
 legislation for the establishment of independent cross-sectoral regulatory institutions covering
 telecommunication, broadcasting, electricity, water, railways, aviation andportdmaritime
 sectors, with the objective of establishing a coherent, modern and pro-competition market
 structures and regulatoryframeworks; and (b) presented to Parliamentfor approval the
 necessary amendments to current legislation related to the sectors referred to in (a) above with
 the objective of making such legislation consistent with the enabling legislation referred to in (a)
 above, asprovidedfor inparagraphs 35, 36 and 37 of the LDP."

 23.     The Borrower has met this condition. The GOT decidedto have four regulatory
 agencies inthe utility and transport sectors, and enactedtheir respective laws by 2002: the
 EnergyandWater UtilityRegulatoryAuthority (EWURA),the Surface andMaritime Transport
 RegulatoryAuthority (SUMATRA), the Communications and Transport RegulatoryAuthority
 (TCRA), and the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA). The GOT also decided to have
 Fair Competition Commission (FCC) andFair CompetitionTribunal (FCT), and enactedthe Fair
 Competition Act inApril 2003. The legislationfor the establishment o f the regulatoryagencies
 also contains provisions which ensure that current legislationrelated to the respective sectors i s
 consistent with the enabling legislation.

 24.     "The Borrower has issued technical regulations under the Petroleum Conservation Act
 of 1981 ensuring the quality and safety ofpetroleum products, in accordance withparagraph 38
 of the LDP."

 25.    The Borrower has met this condition. The legislation empoweringthe Minister
responsible for the Energysector to issue technical regulations for a liberalizedpetroleum sector
was passedbyParliament inApril, 2003; and the Technical Regulations for the sector have
prepared andprinted. Paragraphs 23 -26 o fthe regulations contain provisions to ensure the
quality and safety o fpetroleum products. These regulations can only be gazetted to become
operational once EWURA has beenestablished. Therefore, currently InterimTechnical
Regulations are inuse.

26.      "The Borrower has approveda strategyfor theprivatization of all Tanzania Harbors
Authority (THA)services and the sale of non-core assets, with the exception of the Dar es
Salaam Container Terminal, in accordance withparagraph 40 of the LDP."

27.     The Borrower has met this condition. In1997, the Government approved aport reform
strategy under which it would retain ownership o f the major port assets through THA acting as a
landlord, and would involve the private sector inport operations through long term agreements
such as lease or concession contracts. Inthis context, the Government approved a 10-year lease
grantedby THA to aprivate sector operator, Tanzania International Container Terminal Services
(TICTS), to runthe container terminal from September 2000. In2002, PSRC contracted an
international consultant, RotterdamMaritimeGroup (RMG) o fNetherlands, to assist inassessing
these privatizationoptions (phase I)  for the remainingactivities, consisting o f four business units:




                                                  7

 (i) Cargounit;(ii) Terminalunit;(iii) Servicesunit;and(iv)Singlepoint
    Bulk                   Oil                     Marine
 mooring (SBM)unit,and inimplementingthe approved strategy (phase 11). The consultant
 issuedits final report inJuly 2002, recommending a landlord modelwith concession as the
 preferreddivestiture option for the first three business units (cargo, oil terminal, marine services),
 andnegotiations with the current sole user ofthe SBM, i.e. the ZambianRefineryCompany, to
 manage it. This approach was submitted to Government for approval inSeptember 2002, and
 Government decided to adopt the proposed landlordmodel inNovember 2003.

 28.     "The Borrower has approved a strategyfor reorganizing TANESCO and restructuring
 the electricity sector with the objective of introducing competition in the generation and
 distribution of electricpower, in accordance withparagraph 42 of the LDP."

 29.    The Borrowerhas met this condition. The Government approved the strategy for re-
 organizing TANESCO and restructuring the electricity sector in 1999 and subsequently
 consultants were engaged for Restructuring and Trade Arrangements Options studies for
 TANESCO. The Restructuringand Trade arrangementsreports were completed and submittedin
 July and April, 2003, respectively. Government has approved a strategy for the restructuring of
 TANESCO and the reorganization o fthe power sector as follows:

    0   Distribution activities to be split into two areas, one for the northem part o f Tanzania and
        the other covering the southempart with Dar es Salaam beingdividedbetweenthe two;

    0   Generation activities to be split into two hydrogeneration entities and one thermal with
        the latter beinghanded over to Songas or decommissioned as appropriate;

    0   Transmission activities to cover the entire mainland as a single entityneutralto the
        trading arrangements;

    0   One systems operator and market operator to be established at least initially within the
        nationaltransmission entity but independent interms o f operational decisions and
        financial issues;

    0   A purchasing agency to beestablished at least initiallyto provide load aggregation service
        by assisting inthe tendering o f supplyelectricity contract between distributors and
        generators including imports.

30.     The firmNETGroup Solutions (Pty) from SouthAfrica was recruitedby Government
through a transparent and competitive process, andtook over the management o f TANESCO
operations inMay 2002. The Board o f Directors o f TANESCO appointed a monitoring
consultant to monitor the contract. The management contractor has issued quarterly reports
which indicatedthat TANESCO continuedto make significant turnaround both financially and
technically. Since May 2002, collections increased from 76% to 93%, system losses decreased
from 27% to 24%, administrationand overhead costs were cut down by about 20%, and staff
numberswere reduced by 1,428 to 4,991 employees. Inview o f intemationalmarket conditions,
however, and the need for further improvements inTANESCO's operational performance and its
financial situationbefore successful privatizationwould be feasible, the Govemment has decided




                                                   8

 to extend the performance-based Management Contract for around 3-5 years. The new contract
 would bebasedon revisedperformance incentives aimed at reducing losses, increasing
 connections (after the emergencyperiod), investinginsystemrehabilitation, andthe functional
 unbundling(ring fencing) ofgeneration, transmission anddistribution. A decision onthe timing
 for launchingprivate participationfor the concessioning o f TANESCO would bebasedon future
 internationalmarket conditions and completiono fnecessaryreforms.

 31.      "The Borrower has brought TRC's rail services to apoint of concessionAease,in
 accordance withparagraph 45 of the LDP."

 32.      The Borrowerhas met this condition. The Government of Tanzania advertised the
 intentionto concession TRC's rail services inDecember 2001 and January 2002 and short listed
 four rail operators who were issuedwith the biddingdocuments. However, the first tender was
 unsuccessful, attracting only one qualified bidder who failed to submit a bid. As a result, the
 Government directed PSRC to restart the process. PSRC selectedatransaction adviser (CPCS
Transcom o f Canada) through competitionin2003. The pre-qualificationprocess involvedtwo
rounds o f advertising and resulted inseven applications to pre-qualify inAugust 2003, including
Canac, Dynamic Rail, East Afnca Rail Consortium, Great Lakes Railway Company Consortium,
NPLUSpoomet Consortium, RITES Consortium, Sheltam/ Mvela Consortium. This process i s
still underway, including the due diligence o fpre-qualifiedbidders

33.       "The Borrower has: (a) carried out an audit,property valuation, and actuarial study of
NIC, and (b) approved a strategyfor the divestiture of NIC, in accordance withparagraph 47 of
the LDP.''

34.      The Borrowerhas met this condition. (a) The following studiedtasks havebeen
completed: (i) Audit & Operations Review, which was completed inOctober 2002; (ii)
                NIC                                                                               NIC
Market Review & Privatization Options Study which was completed inJune 2002, (iii)            Fixed
Assets verification and valuation; (iv) Accounting Support to NIC management to reflect the true
financial positiono fNIC; and (v) the actuarial valuation o fNIC was completed inNovember
2003, (b) InMarch2004, the Cabinet approved the recommendedprivatization strategy, notably
to sell life and non-life businesses o f NIC with specific assets and liabilities attached to them
separately (or together) and to sell the remaining assets to pay old claims as a preferred
divestitureoption for the NIC. Government will sell the majority of capitalto a strategic
investor/partner, preferably inconsortium with Tanzanian investors. The Government will retain
30% interest inthe business to be sold, that will be offeredto the public at a later stage.

35.      "The Borrower has developed and approved optionsfor divesting or liquidating: (a) the
remaining cashew nutprocessing plants, (b) NARCO ranches, and (c) NAFCO wheat, rice and
maizefarms, in accordance withparagraph 49 of the LDP."

36.      The Borrowerhas met this condition. The strategy for divestingCashew nut
processing factories was approved inApril, 2002, and the facilities were advertised inMay,
2002. As these efforts to divest the cashew nut processing factories were not successful, a
revisedstrategy was approved inearly 2004 andPSRC re-advertised the cashew nutprocessing
plants for sale inMarch2004. The strategy for divestingNARCO ranches, DAFCO andNAFCO




                                                  9

farms was also approved by Government at the same time, April, 2002. The Government
reached a decision to keep farms as single units except for rice farms, which have already been
partitioned. Subsequently, in2003 a Cabinet paper was prepared which further refined the
approved strategy. The process for divesting the NAFCO rice farms ( Rum, Dakawa, Kapunga
and Mbarali) is still under way and i s expected to be completed at the latest only bymid2004.
Similarly, the NAFCO maize farms (Mbozi and Namtumbo) although initially transferred to the
Tanzania Investment Center, have been placed under PSRC for divestiture bymid-2004.

                                          IV. Conclusion

37.     Inview ofthe overall performanceandprogress withthe implementation ofthe program
supported bythe Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions o f release referred in
paragraph (d) o f Section 2.02 and listed inPart 4 o f Schedule 2 o f the Credit Agreement, the
Association has informed the Borrower o f the availability o f the Privatization and Regulation
floating tranche inthe equivalent o f SDR 29.85 million.




                                                10

                                                      Annex 1

 ImplementationStatus of FloatingTrancheon PrivatizationandRegulation
                                                      PSAC 1

~            ~~   Agreed Actions                   Status               Remarkson Steps Taken              ~




 1.   The Borrower has: (a) presented to                     The GOT decided to have four regulatory

 Parliament for      approval   the necessary                agencies in the utility and transport sectors,

 enabling legislation for the establishment of               and enacted their respective laws by 2002: the

 independent       cross-sectoral    regulatory              Energy     and    Water    Utility Regulatory

 institutions    covering   telecommunication,               Authority    (EWURA), the Surface           and

 broadcasting, electricity, water, railways,                 Maritime Transport Regulatory Authority
 aviation and ports/maritime sectors, with the               (SUMATRA),          the     Telephone       and

 objective o f establishing a coherent, modern               Communications        Regulatory      Authority

 and pro-competition market structures and       Implemented (TCRA), and the Tanzania Civil Aviation
 regulatory frameworks; and (b) presented to                 Authority (TCAA). The GOT also decided to

 Parliament for      approval   the necessary                have Fair Competition Commission (FCC)

 amendments to current legislation related to                and Fair Competition Tribunal (FCT), and

 the sectors referred to in (a) above with the               enacted the Fair Competition Act in April

 objective     o f making     such   legislation             2003. The legislation for the establishment o f

consistent with the enabling legislation                     the regulatory      agencies    also   contains

referred to in (a) above, as provided for in                 provisions    which    ensures   that   current

paragraphs 35, 36 and 37 o f the LDP.                        legislation related to the respective sectors is
                                                             consistent withthe enabling legislation.


2.    The Borrower has issued technical                      The legislation empowering the Minister

regulations       under      the    Petroleum                responsible for the Energy sector to issue

Conservation Act o f 1981 ensuring the           Implemented technical   regulations    for   a   liberalized
quality and safety o f petroleum products, in                petroleum sector was passed by Parliament in

accordance with paragraph 38 o f the LDP.                    April, 2003; and the Technical Regulations
                                                             for the sector have beenprepared andprinted.

                                                             THA's Container Terminal was leased for 10
                                                             years with effect from September, 2000.
3.   The Borrower has approved a strategy                    Consultant     Advisors,    M/s. RMG           o f
for the privatization o f all Tanzania Harbors               Netherlands already submitted a final report
Authority (THA) services and the sale o f                    3n the privatization options study for the rest
non-core assets, with the exception o f the      [mplemented
                                                             3 f   the   ports'    assets   and     services.
Dar es Salaam Container Terminal, in                         Subsequently a strategy has been submittedto
iccordance with paragraph40 o f the LDP.                     2nd approved       by the Inter-Ministerial
                                                             Zommittee. Cabinet approved the strategy on
                                                             Vov. 8,2003.

                                                             The Government approved the strategy for re-
1. The Borrower has approved a strategy                      xganizing TANESCO and restructuring the
'or     reorganizing      TANESCO          and               :lectricity sector in 1999 and subsequently
.estructuring the electricity sector with the                :onsultants were engaged for Restructuring
Ibjective o f introducing competition in the     :mplemented md Trade Arrangements Options studies for
;eneration     and distribution o f electric                 TANESCO.        The Restructuring and Trade
lower, in accordance with paragraph 42 o f                   mangements reports were completed and
heLDP.                                                       ubmitted     in July     and     April,   2003,
                                                             ,espectively.     At a PSRC meeting in
                                                             September 2002, the Commissioners adopted




                                                        11

               AgreedActions                     Status              Remarkson Steps Taken
                                                           the recommendations o f the restructuring
                                                           consultants to unbundle TANESCO into two
                                                           hydro Gencos, two Distcos, and one Transco,
                                                           and one systemoperator/market administrator.
                                                           In a letter to IDA dated December 15, 2003,
                                                           Government confumed its approval o f the
                                                           recommendations       adopted by the PRSC
                                                           Commissioners.

                                                           The Government o f Tanzania advertised the
                                                           intention to concession TRC's rail services in
                                                           December 2001 and January 2002 and short
5.   The Borrower has brought TRC's rail                   listed four rail operators who were issuedwith
services to a point o f concessiodlease, in Implemented    the bidding documents. However for various
accordance with paragraph 45 o f the LDP.                  reasons no bids were received on the bid
                                                           submission deadline in March 2003.         The
                                                           Government has therefore decided to restart
                                                           the transaction process.

                                                           (a) The following studiedtasks have been
                                                           completed: (i)  N I C Audit & Operations
                                                           Review, which was completed inOctober
                                                           2002; (ii)N I C Market Review & Privatization

6.   The Borrower has: (a) carried out an                  Options Study which was completed inJune

audit, property valuation, and actuarial study             2002, (iii)FixedAssets verification and

o f NIC, and (b) approved a strategy for the   Implemented valuation; (iv) Accounting Support to N I C

divestiture o f NIC, in accordance with                    management to reflect the true financial

paragraph 47 of the LDP.                                   positiono fNIC; and (v) the actuarial
                                                           valuation o fN I C was completed inNovember
                                                           2004.
                                                           (b) Based on this work, inMarch2004
                                                           Cabinet approved the sale o fNIC's life and
                                                           non-life business

                                                           A strategy for divesting the cashew nut
                                                           processing plants was approved inApril 2002
                                                           and the facilities were advertised in May
7.   The Borrower has developed and                        2002. As these efforts were not successful, a
approved    options     for   divesting    or              revised strategy was approved in early 2004,
liquidating: (a) the remaining cashew nut                  and the facilities were re-advertised inMarch,
?recessing plants, (b) NARCO ranches, and      implemented 2004. The strategy for divesting NARCO
:c) NAFCO wheat, rice and maize farms, in                  ranches, DAFCO and NAFCO farms was also
accordance with paragraph 49 o f the LDP.                  approved by Government at the same time,
                                                           April, 2002. The strategies for divesting the
                                                           agricultural farms was further refined in a
                                                           Cabinet Paper prepared in2004.




                                                      12

