                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                          Report No: 33788-ET

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (IDA-33790 IDA-33791 IDA-33792 IDA-33793)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 141.8 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                             UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                            FOR A

              PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSAC)




                                      September 30, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 2
Tanzania and Uganda Country Management Unit (AFCO4)
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (Tsh)
                       Tsh 1.00 = US$ US$ 0.00846
                  US$ US$1.00 = Tsh 1182

                        FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1   June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
              Country Director     Judy O'Connor
               Sector Manager      Kathie Krumm
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     R.Sudharshan Canagarajah/Robert Utz

                                          TANZANIA
                Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit CR.no.3379-TA


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P002822                                                  Project Name: Programmatic Structural Adjustment
                                                                     Credit CR.no.3379-TA
Team Leader: R. Sudharshan Canagarajah                               TL Unit: AFTP2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit                L/C/TF Number: IDA-33790; IDA-33791;
                            CR.no.3379-TA                                                            IDA-33792; IDA-33793
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (60%); General transportation
                            sector (13%); General industry and trade sector (10%); Law and
                            justice (10%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (7%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (S); Tax policy and
                            administration (S); Regulation and competition policy (S); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/01/1999                                     Effective: 08/01/2000                08/01/2000
     Appraisal: 04/01/2000                                         MTR: 05/01/2001                  05/01/2001
      Approval: 06/15/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 05/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          United Republic of Tanzania/Ministry of Finance (MoF)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Kathie L. Krumm                                Frederick Kilby
Team Leader at ICR:             R. Sudharshan Canagarajah                      Benno J. Ndulu
ICR Primary Author:             Ben Tarimo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

3.1.1     Tanzania's renewed reform efforts in the mid-nineties have led to higher economic growth in recent
years. Following its earlier attempt at economic reform in the mid-eighties, which produced mixed results,
Tanzania resumed its reform process in the mid-nineties with a clear commitment to macro-economic stability and
economic growth through sound fiscal and monetary policies and structural reforms. Economic growth was slow
in the initial years of renewed reform, but improved to an average GDP growth of 5.2 percent between 1998 and
2003, which compared favorably with South Asia (5.4 percent) and East Asia (5.6 percent). More recently, real
GDP growth averaged 6.0 percent for the years 2003-2004. Inflation has dropped substantially from about 30
percent in the early 1990s to around 4 percent since 2000. Foreign exchange reserves were much healthier in
2003/04 at an equivalent of 8 months of imports, compared to less than 2 months equivalent during the early
1990s. Foreign Direct Investment has grown to US$350 million per annum in 2003/04 compared to US$100
million in the early 1990s. Tanzania also made perceptible gains against poverty in the 1990s. A comprehensive
Household Budget Survey (HBS) completed in FY02 showed a decline in basic needs poverty from 38.6 percent in
FY92 to 35.4 percent in FY01.

3.1.2     Despite encouraging growth in recent years, Tanzania's developmental challenges remain daunting.
A variety of analytical and advisory activities (AAA) have highlighted the pressing need for Tanzania to maintain
higher growth while pursuing institutional reform, and to ensure that economic gains reach all regions and poorer
sections of society through improved governance and service delivery. These issues are also central to the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in FY00. The annual Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs) note
important improvements in public finance management, while highlighting the need to better align the spending
plans of various sectors with the approach laid out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP; FY01).

3.1.3     Several recent projects financed by the Bank have sought to support Tanzania's development in a
complementary manner. Among these were: the Structural Adjustment Credit I (SAC I) approved in FY00,
Privatization and Private Sector Development Project (PPSD) approved in FY00, Public Sector Reform Project
(PSRP) approved in FY99, the Tax Administration Project approved in FY99, the Financial Institutions
Development Project II approved in FY00, the Rural and Micro-finance Project (a LIL or Learning and Innovation
Loan) approved in FY00, and the older Integrated Roads Project II (IRP) approved in FY94. The objectives of
these projects were in consonance with the CAS, and built upon the reforms agreed to under the Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) prepared by Tanzania in collaboration with the Bank and the IMF. These operations assisted in
improving macroeconomic and public expenditure management, and helped deepen reforms on all major fronts,
thus complementing and/or setting the stage for the PSAC program.

3.1.4     Among others, the PSAC program built upon the achievements of and complementarities with the
SAC I program. Achievements under SAC I included a sustained improvement in macroeconomic stability,
divestiture of key public enterprises, a strengthened foundation for more effective public service delivery, and more
efficient operation of key product and factor markets. The PSAC program gained from the SAC I experience with
objectives for strengthening core policy institutions within GOT, as well as incorporating stakeholders' concerns.
The program aimed to fill financing gaps resulting from more aggressive and cost-effective poverty-reduction
expenditure programs, offering a sustainable means for moving out of the debt trap. Further, the PSAC program
also sought to improve prospects for achieving the objectives of the enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) operation.

3.1.5     The PSAC program was aligned with GOT's vision for development. The objectives of the PSAC
program support the Government's Policy Framework Paper (PFP) that was presented to the board in January
1999. The PFP set out GOT's medium term strategy for policy and institutional reforms aimed at supporting
private sector development in Tanzania through accelerating economic growth in general and more specifically




                                                         - 2 -

through private sector development. The PSAC program serves these objectives by advancing economic reforms
and an enabling environment for private sector development (PSD) to enhance investment, increase growth and
ultimately reduce poverty in the country. The program is consistent with Tanzania's National Vision 2025, which
aims to make Tanzania a middle income country by 2025, through an annual real GDP growth rate of over 8
percent that would make a dent in widespread poverty. The PSAC program was originally conceived as a two-part
operation ­ PSAC I and II. Due to delays in implementing some of the initial actions of utility reforms and
unforeseen delays in regulatory and legal reforms, the initial part of the PSAC program was implemented over a
longer time than planned. In parallel with the delayed PSAC program, the Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC) program series got underway, and achieved significant progress on institutional issues that complemented
the PSAC program. However, as the PRSC program was aligned with Tanzania's PRSP and harmonized with
budget support provided by other donors, its focus overlapped only partially with the reform agenda defined under
PSAC. It therefore needs to be borne in mind that the program objectives detailed in section 3.1.6 below were
intended to be achieved through PSAC-1 and the originally envisaged PSAC-2.


Program Objectives

3.1.6    The principal objective of the PSAC program was to support GOT's strategy of reducing poverty through
sustained macroeconomic stability, acceleration of economic growth, structural reforms and private sector
development, through inducing greater efficiency in the use of sector resources, encouraging private investment,
expanding the role of the private sector in the economy and enhancing competition in the continuing process of
market liberalization. The PSAC program comprised one effectiveness tranche and four floating tranches
corresponding to the following areas of action:

A.       (Short-term tranche): enhance regulatory framework for key sectors; improve transparency and
competition; increase level of public expenditure for HIV/AIDS activities as well as for several social sectors, the
agricultural sector and the judiciary;
B.       Improved economic governance: ensure accountability, curb corruption and establish efficient and
effective public service delivery;
C.       Improved business environment: create a conducive environment for the conduct of business; and
D.       Establishment of regulatory frameworks for key markets and divestiture of key parastatals,
primarily in infrastructure, finance, and agriculture: establish a regulatory framework for a competitive
environment in the utility sector and deepen the privatization process

3.1.7    Program objectives and tranche-linked actions were well grounded in economic analysis and clearly
defined: As explained in the preceding sections, PSAC program objectives were well anchored in GOT's own
medium-term strategies, as well as the Bank's economic and sector work (ESW) work, including a Country
Economic Memorandum and a series of annual Public Expenditure Reviews. The Government's Policy Framework
Paper, presented to the Board in January, 1999, set out the Government's medium-term strategy to reduce poverty
through sustained macroeconomic stability, acceleration of economic growth, structural reforms, and private sector
development. More specifically, the proposed actions are underpinned by the Government's commitment to
implement the reform program undertaken through its Letter of Development Policy. This strategy was in line
with the FY00 CAS, whose objective was to support poverty reduction through accelerated growth and more
effective public service delivery. A key contributor to the accelerated growth will be a more dynamic private
sector. The principal objectives of the PSAC program therefore supported this strategy by attempting to induce
greater efficiency in the use of private sector resources, encouraging increased private investment, expanding the
role of the private sector in the economy, and enhancing competition in the continuing process of market
liberalization. The activities related to each tranche and the manner of their implementation were clearly defined
as can be seen in Annex I. Also, the program design provided a good deal of flexibility in effecting tranche
release.

3.1.8    GOT displayed strong ownership of the reform program: GOT's commitment to reform was displayed,
for instance, by its availing three out of the initial four tranches of SAC I (which preceded the PSAC program) in a



                                                            - 3 -

timely manner, without any recourse to waiver of conditionalities. Other GOT actions that underlined its
commitment to reform included: successful implementation of the IMF supported three-year Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Program; reaching an agreement with IMF on Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility Program for
three years; and agreement with Bank and IMF to implement requirements for the Enhanced HIPC program.

3.1.9     Program risks were perceived to be low as evidenced by past GOT actions: The main perceived risk
at the time of program preparation was a possible weakening of government commitment in the event of a change
in political leadership from the imminent general elections. However, GOT's actions under other preceding
programs and the relatively open and inclusive political decision-making process gave high credence to GOT's
assurances that, though the consensus building process might delay decisive action, it would make for steady
progress and ensure against policy reversals in the future. On the other hand, it was recognized that parts of the
government had limited capacity to implement the PSAC program, which was taken into account while designing
technical assistance under the program.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1     The program components correspond to the four principal tranches below, apart from the effectiveness
tranche which accounted for SDR 22.4 million (equivalent to US$ 30.0 million).

·         The Short Term Tranche (SDR 29.85 million, equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) included actions in the
areas covered by the PSAC program which were expected to be completed soon after effectiveness and thus ensure
a smooth disbursement profile corresponding to GOT's financing needs. This tranche also focused on the
budgeting process (Public Financial Management or PFM) and the need to ensure appropriate resource allocation
to the priority sectors. In addition, the tranche also emphasized GOT's approval for divestiture of the National
Microfinance Bank (NMB); the issuance of regulations to implement the Land Act; developing a clear sense of the
GOT's policy on the treatment of those retrenched -- including its plans to handle its contingent liability; and,
finally, enabling GOT to bring DAWASA to the point of concession/lease.

·         The Governance Tranche (SDR 29.85 million, equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) aimed at establishing a
sound public finance management system, designing an anti-corruption plan to ensure accountability, and also
implementing an efficient and effective public service delivery system at central government level.

·         The Business Environment Tranche (SDR 29.85, million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) focused on a
number of measures to create an environment conducive for the conduct of business and private sector development
in Tanzania. These measures included: simplifying investment facilitation and promotion; improving the legal
framework to facilitate the conduct of business; dealing with the issue of crop movement within the country and
across the borders; harmonizing the tax regime; and, finally, relaxing restrictions on foreign participation in the
Dar-Es-Salaam stock market.

·         Finally, the Regulation/Privatization Tranche (SDR 29.85 million, equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) was
meant to support a comprehensive regulatory framework for infrastructure services viz; telecommunications,
broadcasting, water, electricity, ports/marine facilities, railways, aviation, etc. With regard to the private sector's
role in management and financing of utilities, the objective was to: approve plans for the concessioning of the port
assets; approve a strategy for the re-organization of TANESCO; bring TRC to a point of concession/lease; approve
a strategy for the divestiture of NIC; and approve options for divesting the remaining cashew nut plants and State
Farms.

3.4 Revised Components:




                                                           - 4 -

The program components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.

3.5.1    Program design and preparation was helped by drawing upon the findings of the analytical work; building
upon the strengths of previous operations; enumerating risks and drawing up measures to mitigate them; ensuring
government commitment; seeking donor coordination; and designing clear monitoring and evaluation indicators,
as detailed below. The program design also responded to the recommendations from the Operations Evaluation
Department's (OED) Country Assistance Review (FY99), which identified support for private sector development
as one of the top priorities for Bank support to Tanzania.

·        Alignment with CAS/AAA: The PSAC program was consistent with the principal CAS objectives of
supporting poverty reduction from accelerated growth through a more dynamic private sector, and more effective
public service delivery. It benefited from analytic work done under the Country Economic Memorandum and a
series of annual public expenditure reviews, which emphasized, among others, the need to direct public
expenditures for health and education to reduce inequality and poverty, enforce financial discipline, and to
liberalize marketing institutions for export crops. In addition, the involvement of the TTL in both the policy
dialogue and AAA assisted immensely in clearly specifying the reform program.

·        Building on previous operations: As discussed in section 3, the PSAC program built upon several IDA
operations (mentioned in para 3.1.3) including SAC I which supported macroeconomic stability, growth and
poverty reduction through a reform of public expenditure policies, more efficient provision of social services, and
accelerated privatization of parastatals.

·        Risk mitigation: The risks of reversals in policy actions were mitigated through building consensus on
key actions, even if this had resulted in some delays in taking actions. This was further facilitated by the presence
and continuous follow up by the TTL based in Dar-Es-Salaam.

·        Government commitment: As mentioned in section 3.1.8, GOT's commitment to reform was displayed,
for instance, by its availing three out of the initial four tranches of SAC I in a timely manner, without any recourse
to waiver of conditionalities. Also, GOT had successfully implemented the IMF-supported three-year Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Program; reaching an agreement with IMF on Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
Program for three years; and agreement with Bank and IMF to implement requirements for the Enhanced HIPC
program.

·        Collaboration/coordination with other financial institutions/donors: Along with the PSAC program,
the African Development Bank (AfDB) prepared a parallel adjustment credit -- AfDB Structural Adjustment Loan
II (SAL II) provided US$ 55 million in two tranches. World Bank staff ensured close coordination with AfDB
staff in preparation of the program, through consulting on program issues, conducting joint missions, holding joint
meetings with GOT, ensuring consonance in conditionalities, and collaborating in supervision.

·        Monitoring and evaluation (M&E): The PSAC program had defined clear indicators to verify output,
outcomes and compliance during the implementation process. However, on the whole, sufficiently strong
mechanisms were not put in place for systematic recording and tracking of these performance indicators.
Supervision included expenditure tracking surveys and a participatory CFAA, which has demonstrated good
progress, as well as making service delivery surveys and expenditure tracking part of a routine annual assessment
of public spending effectiveness. These were positive steps that sought to improve the ability of the operation to
track effects and outcomes for the poor. The Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) included the preparation of a
poverty monitoring master plan and the establishment of a poverty monitoring system, which substantially
strengthened the M&E function in Tanzania.




                                                            - 5 -

3.5.2     Findings of the QAG Review: A QAG supervision study1 in September 2002 observed that the PSAC
program was well-designed, and directed at poverty reduction through, inter alia, improving effectiveness in the
delivery of supportive public services. It noted the PSAC program's close linkage with PRSP, ensuring that GOT
works toward implementing strategies and targets established in the PRS. The tranches under the PSAC program
were well formulated and included a variety of conditions with regard to levels of expenditure for various sectors
including basic education, primary health, water, rural roads, judiciary and agricultural research and extension as
well as HIV/AIDS activities (under the Short Term Tranche); anti-corruption and accountability (under the
Economic Governance Tranche); improving the business environment (under the Business Environment Tranche);
and adopting enabling legislation for establishing cross-sectoral regulators and pro-competitive regulatory
frameworks (Regulation/Privatization tranche). The QAG review noted the project team's excellent
communication with GOT, not only with regard to this operation but also with respect to the Bank's overall
long-term programmatic approach to poverty reduction. However, the QAG review felt that the schedule for
meeting conditions for the release of tranches, especially the Regulation and Privatization tranche, had been overly
optimistic.

1/
   Report of the Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) by a QAG panel in September 2002


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome of the program was Satisfactory.

An overview of the major outcomes and achievements is as follows:

4.1.1     Overall macro outcomes were highly encouraging: The Tanzanian economy has shown a high degree of
resilience. While not possible to separate and attribute the successes of the economy primarily to the PSAC
program, the performance of the economy has been strong. Real GDP growth rate increased from a level of 3.3
percent during 1993-98 to 5.4 percent during 1998-2003. Inflation declined from 40 percent in 1995 to 5 percent
in 2004. Private sector credit has increased and Tanzania has benefited from large inflows of foreign investment.
Non-traditional exports, which are under the ambit of the private sector, and which only accounted for about 10
percent of total exports during the 1990s, increased to slightly over 50 percent of total exports in 2003. Official
foreign exchange reserves increased over twofold from about US$ 1,000 million in 2000 to around US$ 2,100
million in 2004.

4.1.2     Poverty was better targeted by public expenditure plans: The poverty reducing reform agenda was
very much enhanced during the implementation of this program. Although there are no further surveys beyond the
Household Budget Survey of FY01, (which showed a decline in basic needs poverty from 38.6 percent in FY92 to
35.4 percent in FY01) the pattern of public expenditure supported by the PSAC program has become distinctly
pro-poor, focusing on the delivery of core public services. There was a systematic increase in the allocation for
human development sectors - including basic education, health and HIV/AIDS.

4.1.3     Human development (HD) outcomes: The increased focus on education and health in public expenditure
that was supported by the PSAC program appears to be associated with positive trends in the sectors. In the
education sector, gross primary school enrolment ratio increased from 78 percent in 2000 to 106 in 2004, while the
net enrolment ratio rose from 59 percent to 91 percent over the same period. On the health front, infant mortality
rate has decreased from 100 per 1000 live births to 68 per 1000 live births between the years 2000 and 2005.

4.1.4     Public finance management improved substantially: As part of the PSAC program, GOT expanded the
coverage of the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) to all Central Government ministries,
departments and agencies as well as to the sub-treasuries in the regions. The PER became a key mechanism for
advice and dialogue on the allocation of resources in line with the priorities outlined in the PRS. In addition, GOT
started to develop a public expenditure tracking mechanism and public service delivery improved substantially.



                                                                  - 6 -

The HIPC AAP rating improved from 9/15 in 2001 to 11/16 in 2004.

4.1.5    Economic Governance reforms were implemented: Measures to curb corruption were instituted at the
central government level. A National Anti-Corruption Strategy as well as anti-corruption strategies for all
ministries, departments, and agencies have been developed. An anti-corruption law is under preparation and is
expected to be presented to Parliament by April, 2006. Institutions fighting corruption were strengthened and
transparency of the budget process was improved. The Bank's governance indicators show substantial
improvement in the rule of law (percentile rank improved from 25.3 to 39.6) and the control of corruption
(percentile rank improved from 9.3 to 36.0) between 1996 and 2004.

4.1.6    Business Environment reforms were carried out as planned and benefits accrued: The PSAC
program sought to improve Tanzania's business environment for private sector investment, through supporting the
development of a sound legal and regulatory framework. The investment climate appears to have improved
substantially during the PSAC period as evidenced by the increase in FDI from US$50 million in 1994 to US$193
million in 2000, and US$280 million in 2004. The Bank's governance indicators show a substantial improvement
in government effectiveness (percentile rank improved from 8.4 to 40.4) and a marginal improvement in regulatory
quality (percentile rank improved from 27.1 to 29.1).

4.1.7    Private Sector Development progressed with more divestitures and concessions: The PSAC program
was broadly successful in preparing the basis for privatization or concession/lease arrangements, on its own as well
as in conjunction with other projects, though progress in actual implementation was mixed. The objective of
strengthening PSD through the continuing process of divestiture was served well through the complementary
efforts of the Bank's operations, as over 70 percent of Tanzania's 400 parastatals have either been divested or
concessioned by the year 2004. An example of the project's ability to leverage its efforts with other projects is
seen in the case of the water sector law, which was passed in conjunction with the PPSD project.

4.1.8    Also during the PSAC period, there has been a steady increase of foreign investment in mining, tourism,
banking, telecoms and agro-processing, together with an increase in domestic private investment. In the mining
sector, the Mineral Sector Development TA project (approved in FY95) was instrumental in increasing the
number of prospecting and mining licensed from 9 to 250 between 1999 and 2001, while revenues from mineral
and gold exports showed impressive growth. The overall private investment in the economy is now growing at
about 6 percent per annum.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Short term tranche: Under this tranche, GOT implemented several actions relating to improved
budgeting processes with greater focus on identified sectors; reaching agreement on retrenchment policies; and
bringing key parastatals to the point of divestiture or concession/lease. The development budget has been
reclassified according to the Government Finance Statistics (GFS), and PER/MTEF processes were adopted as
budgeting tools for allocating resources to the sectors identified under PRS specifications. These actions helped to
strengthen and enforce expenditure controls and fiduciary accountability. GOT's performance in focusing on the
identified sectors -- basic education, primary health, water, rural roads, judiciary, and agricultural research and
extension, and activities to combat HIV/AIDS -- exceeded expectations. The sectors received an allotment of 40.1
percent of the 2001/02 budget, which exceeding the targeted minimum of 2 percentage points increase over the
corresponding share in the 2000/01 budget, which was 35.6 percent. Similarly, the total "Other Charges"
allocation to the identified sectors as a percent of total recurrent expenditure was 19.8 percent in the 2001/02
budget against 17.1 percent in 2000/01, again exceeding the targeted increase of at least 2 percentage points.

4.2.2    Among other actions relating to the short-term tranche, GOT adopted mutually acceptable and consistent
policies for the treatment of public enterprise employee retrenchment and debt, including the provision to award
statutory benefits to retrenchees, except where a public enterprise could afford to pay a bonus out of its profits. In
respect of the concessioning/leasing of DAWASA, GOT began a round of tendering in September 2000, with the
intention of improving upon some shortcomings in the process during an earlier attempt. However, the



                                                           - 7 -

shortcomings in the tendering process needed to be addressed through legislation that was ultimately passed by the
Parliament in October/November 2001 after delays in the preceding legal process and preparation of tender
documents. Subsequently, DAWASA was brought to the point of concession/lease in Jan 2003, and a contract was
awarded to a qualified bidder through a competitive bidding process. However, after considering the performance
of the private sector operator, the contract was terminated. A memorandum of understanding between NMB and
the Ministry of Finance was revised and approved based on the business plan adopted by the NMB Board, and the
cabinet approved the strategy for NMB's divestiture. Final negotiations with the preferred bidder for the partial
privatization of NMB were completed. In 2005, the Government concluded the sale of NMB.

4.2.3    Governance: Several actions were implemented in respect of improving economic governance related
to public finance management, anti corruption, and accountability effectiveness and efficiency in public service
delivery. The Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) was introduced in all Ministries and
sub-treasuries as the primary mechanism for the release of funds and the Government started to develop a public
expenditure tracking mechanism. IFMS and EPICOR software was rolled out to 28 local authorities on a pilot
basis under phase I of the LGRP initiative while 42 more were targeted under the phase that began in January
2002. GOT carried out corruption diagnostic surveys in the Ministries of Works, Education, Health, and Home
Affairs; the Judiciary, Attorney General's office, and TRA, and approved operational strategies for these areas.
Further, GOT has extended this arrangement to the Regions and Districts. An Anti-Corruption Law, containing
provisions that would allow the Prevention of Corruption Bureau (PCB) unfettered access to information, and also
in consonance with Tanzania's obligations under the UN Conventions on Preventing and Combating Corruption,
is to be passed by Parliament in April 2006. Currently, PCB is considered as "lacking teeth" as it focuses more on
petty corruption and not so much on potentially larger sources of corruption. A new procurement law and
regulations were approved in February 2001, permitting greater transparency and integrity in the process of
procurement. The Central Tender Board has undertaken to announce tender results through press releases. To
improve service delivery, GOT developed and approved strategic and annual plans and performance budgets in the
ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health, and Water, with legislative backing. The management and operation
of the trunk and regional roads network was transferred to TANROADS from July 2000, and GOT restricted its
own role to that of a regulator.

4.2.4    Business Environment: GOT implemented several measures relating to investment facilitation and
promotion, the legal framework, tax regime, capital market, and crop movement. Tanzania Investment Centre
(TIC) was restructured and re-staffed to serve as an investment promotion agency in line with the mission of its
new corporate strategy and the 1997 Investment Act. It now serves as a `One-Stop-Centre', which has the
potential to greatly reduce transactions costs for investors and entrepreneurs. In respect of the legal framework, the
Commercial Court (CC) plan was approved, and formally opened in May 2001. The CC plans to open branches in
selected regions, and has established a computerized automatic filing and registry system. A new Companies
Legislation has been passed by Parliament and is now operational.

4.2.5    A unified tax appeal system has been made operational with the appointment of a chief executive and core
staff. GOT simplified the application of excise and withholding taxes and expedited the payments of VAT refunds.
Excise Duty is currently levied on only six items (beer, wine & spirits, tobacco, soft drinks, petroleum, and some
motor vehicles). Since July 2000, VAT refund requests are being made within the statutory 30 days, if certified by
an auditor. A uniform withholding tax rate has been established for all investors excluding those in mining,
infrastructure and stock exchange. GOT also enforced the limit for crop/livestock cess to those established under
the Finance Bill for 1999-00; and enforced the exemptions from stamp duty on proceeds on agricultural trade. All
new by-laws adopted by local authorities have been made consistent. In the budget guidelines for fiscal year 2001
and 2001-02, lending agencies were required to observe the 5 percent limit for crop cess; and the exemption from
stamp duty on sale of agricultural produce and livestock as per Finance Bill for 1999-00. After considerable delay,
the Government opened the DSE for foreign portfolio investor participation with effect from May 2003. Physical
controls on crop movements within and across international borders were rationalized, and made subject to
existing trade procedures.

4.2.6    Regulation/Privatization: Significant progress was made in establishing pro-competitive regulatory




                                                         - 8 -

frameworks and regulatory institutions for various sectors. The overall enabling legislation for regulatory
frameworks was successfully passed, but the process of establishing and staffing regulatory agencies is still
underway. Pro-competitive regulatory frameworks were established for telecommunications, broadcasting, water,
electricity, ports/marine, railways, and aviation sectors. Legislation was passed in April 2001 to establish the
Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA). In November 2002, GOT reviewed the
regulatory environment and decided on the creation of four institutions, i.e. (i) Mass Communications Regulatory
Authority (MCRA); (ii) Civil Aviation Regulatory Authority (CARA); (iii) Tanzania Public Utilities Regulatory
Authority (TPURA) and (iv) Tanzania Transport Regulatory Authority (TTRA). Legislation establishing the four
Regulatory Authorities, as well as the Fair Competition Commission were passed by Parliament in April, 2003.
Technical regulations were issued for a liberalized petroleum sector for ensuring quality and safety of petroleum
products. The legislation empowering the Minister responsible for the Energy sector to issue technical regulations
for a liberalized petroleum sector was passed by Parliament in April, 2003; and the Technical Regulations for the
sector have been gazetted and are in use.

4.2.7     Privatization outcomes did not keep pace with expectations, but GOT has displayed renewed
commitment to the process. GOT approved plans for concessioning of remaining port assets and services, but
implementation has been mainly limited to leasing THA's Container Terminal for 10 years beginning year 2000.
Rail services were brought to a point of concession/lease, but the first round of bidding did not yield offers from
qualified bidders. However, GOT has displayed strong commitment in this regard and brought TRC to the final
stages of concessioning in a second round of bidding. Strategies were developed for re-organizing TANESCO and
restructuring the electricity sector. In March, 2004, the cabinet approved the sale of NIC's life and non-life
business. GOT also developed and approved options for divesting the remaining cashew nut processing plants,
NARCO ranches, and NAFCO wheat, rice and maize farms, but actual divestiture is yet to be implemented due to
the difficulties in matters such as land valuation, and the large number and dispersed nature of the ranches and
farms.

4.2.8     The QAG review saw slow progress on the privatization program. With the benefit of hindsight, the
schedule envisaged for privatization was just too optimistic. The QAG review observed that the program did suffer
from problems in providing timely and adequate technical assistance (TA) from bilateral and other sources, which
was alleviated to some extent by the Bank's own efforts.

4.2.9     Delays in Tranche Releases: GOT appreciated the flexibility of the PSAC program as a floating tranche
line of credit. This feature met GOT's concern for the program to be as realistic as possible while taking into
account the situation and capacity on the ground. However, although the operation was to close on June 30, 2002,
this date was extended three times principally due to slippages in completing the following actions:

    l     The first extension was partly due to additional actions or delays relating to DSE, DAWASA, and NMB:
          i.       In respect of DSE, additional studies were commissioned to address the concerns of the Bank of
Tanzania relating to the possible effects of liberalizing the stock market;
          ii.      In the case of DAWASA, the shortcomings of an earlier bidding process undertaken prior to the
PSAC program had to be addressed through amending the DAWASA act so as to be consistent with
                   the multi-sector regulatory framework. The time taken for the legal process for amending the
DAWASA Act caused a slippage in the PSAC program schedule; and
          iii.     Consultant advice on the privatization of NMB was received later than anticipated.

Together with the delay arising from postponing the new companies' legislation to a later parliament session, the
above reasons resulted in a new planned closure of the operation on June 30, 2003.

    l     The second extension was occasioned by delays in developing an approved strategy for the divestiture of
          NIC ­ caused by a Cabinet decision to carry out a detailed actuarial study of NIC's assets and liabilities -
          and to approve options for divesting the remaining cashew nut plants and the State Farms, which resulted
          in a new closing date of December 31, 2003.
    l     Following further slippages on the NIC divestiture strategy, it was agreed that the other new closing date
          for the operation would be May 31, 2004.


                                                          - 9 -

4.2.10   On the positive side, these extensions provided the flexibility to complete most of the actions contemplated
in the PSAC program. On the other hand, they converted the original two-year time frame to four years, which
greatly increased the uncertainty for resource flows into Tanzania's annual budgets. As explained in section 3.1.5,
the PSAC program was originally conceived as a two-part operation ­ PSAC I and II. Since the initial part of the
PSAC program took longer than planned, some of the objectives intended for the second phase of PSAC,
particularly those that went beyond creating an enabling framework to actual implementation, were incorporated
into a new Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) program series, which is now in underway. However, despite
the delays, all the components were fully implemented without any revision to the original objectives and the
program was successfully brought to a closure on May 31, 2004.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional Development impact from the program is rated as Substantial

4.5.1    Short-term tranche concerns: One of the major achievements under the program has been extending the
IFMS to cover all ministries and sub-treasuries. The program assisted GOT in strengthening the Accountant
General's office for managing the IFMS -- not only at the Centre but also in the regions. Training sessions were
conducted to ensure that the payment software was properly managed and that no approved fund releases would be
constrained. The program also helped build capacity at MOF to manage the PER/MTEF process. In addition, a
number of training programs were conducted on MTEF preparation for staff of local governments. The HIPC AAP
report also observed substantial progress in PFM.

4.5.2    Governance: The PSAC program helped develop or deepen institutional arrangements for improved
governance in Tanzania. GOT strengthened the Prevention of Corruption Bureau (PCB) to deal with corruption.
Its head office was adequately staffed and training programs were conducted. PCB now has offices in all the
regions in the country. The Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) was introduced in all ministries and
sub-treasuries as the primary mechanism for the release of funds. A public finance act and a new procurement act
as well as related regulations were approved, establishing a sound basis for financial management reforms and
permitting greater transparency and integrity in the process of procurement. The Central Tender Board has
undertaken to announce tender results through press releases, introducing more openness into the process. To
improve service delivery, GOT developed and approved strategic and annual plans and Performance Budgets in the
ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health, and Water, with legislative backing. The management and operation
of the trunk and regional roads network was transferred to TANROADS, and GOT restricted its own role to that of
a regulator.

4.5.3    Business Environment: A number of initiatives were taken to create an environment conducive to the
conduct of business. The Private Sector Foundation (PSF) and the Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC)
were strengthened as advocates for the promotion of private sector development in the country. The TNBC meets
regularly, and benefits from having the President of Tanzania as its chairman. In addition, international investors
round tables managed by TNBC have become a regular forum of exchange between GOT and the private sector.
The Commercial Court (CC), which was established and staffed under this program, is now fully operational in
Dar-Es-Salaam and is planning to open up branches in the regions. The Tax Appeals Court and its Board have
been established and staffed, and are fully operational. The Dar-Es-Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) was opened up
for foreign participation and its capacity for portfolio management was improved. The Tanzania Investment Centre



                                                         - 10 -

(TIC) was restructured to become a `One-Stop Centre'. The Bank was involved in reviewing and commenting on
major laws passed in Tanzania such as the Water Sector Law, the Corporate Law and the Procurement Law, and
helped in the process of developing a satisfactory legal and regulatory framework.

4.5.4     Regulation/Privatization: A relative lack of consensus among all stakeholders, and low ownership
hindered progress in respect of some privatization proposals developed by consultants and/or the Bank. In the case
of key parastatals, the Bank had rightly emphasized the need for agreeing on strategies before embarking on
privatization. Particular attention was given to institution building. The Bank provided ample resources for TA and
also complemented the efforts of bilaterals and other sources in this area. However, the QAG review noted that
legal capacity remained crucial for structural adjustments under the program reducing the efficacy of the
privatization efforts. On the whole, while the PSAC program was broadly successful in preparing the basis for
privatization or concession/lease arrangements, progress in actual implementation was mixed. Encouraging results
were achieved for promoting privatization in the case of the Tanzania Harbors Authority (THA) -- container
Terminal, and the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (TANESCO). Not much progress was made in the case
of the Dar-Es-Salaam Water Supplies Authority (DAWASA). TANROADS was established and its capacity
enhanced for managing both the trunk and regional road networks in the in the country.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1     While the program made substantial progress towards its objectives, some factors exogenous to GOT
affected its implementation. For instance, the Parliament took greater time than anticipated in passing some of the
required legislation. There was resistance from the opposition to some aspects of the reform agenda, which was
unforeseen to some extent. During implementation, there were unanticipated constraints and delays in the
preparatory work for legal/regulatory reform. Instances of each of these factors have been highlighted in various
sections. Yet, on the whole, Tanzania's experience is relatively positive compared to that of other sub-Saharan
countries in the past as well as in more recent years. For example, with regard to infrastructure SOEs in the 1980s,
there was persistent repetition in both adjustment and investment loans of the same set of policy and structural
conditions, indicating that the changes had not been enacted the first, or even the second or the third time. The
donors and IFIs concluded from the experience of the 1980s that the problems of African SOEs were numerous,
serious and resistant to change by the means and methods so far applied. In respect of privatization in the 1990s,
though relatively better results were obtained in privatizing SOEs producing tradable goods, the same clarity and
speed could not be applied in the more complex infrastructure cases World Bank. 2005. "Towards Growth and Poverty
Reduction: Lessons from Private Participation in Infrastructure in Sub-Saharan Africa. Cape Town, South Africa, June 6-7, 2005. Conference
proceedings. such as those addressed by the PSAC program with generally satisfactory results.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1     Administrative delays: Overall, GOT showed strong commitment for implementing the PSAC program,
but displayed some weaknesses that influenced the pace of implementation and outcomes in various areas. In some
cases, implementation was slowed due to capacity constraints. In others, the process could have been managed
better to avoid the three requests for extensions. For instance, the Attorney General's Chambers took longer than
anticipated for the final drafting of legal documents, which resulted in missing opportune time slots for tabling
legislation in the parliament The decision to allow foreign participation in the Dar-Es-Salaam Stock Exchange
(DSE) went through a long and difficult process, including a detailed analysis of the consequences of the decision,
requested by the Bank of Tanzania before it ultimately approved the proposal. The strategy to divest NIC also took
longer than expected to pass through Cabinet, which requested a detailed actuarial study of the assets and liabilities
of NIC, prior to the approval of a divestiture strategy. However, in spite of the complexities involved in dealing
with the concerns of various shareholders, GOT consistently pursued program objectives, and managed to bring
most of the controversial actions to satisfactory conclusions.

5.2.2     Involvement of other ministries/coordination: The program was conducted in a manner that suggested
that the reform/adjustment agenda was mainly the concern of MOF. Many of the actions to be implemented



                                                                       - 11 -

involved other ministries and significant effort was expanded to bring them on board. However, the incentive
structure within government was in some cases not sufficiently strong to ensure that PSAC supported reforms were
treated as priorities by all involved government agencies.

5.2.3    Stakeholder consultation: Most elements of the program held out the prospect of affecting the interests
of various stakeholders. Not surprisingly, some stakeholders, including some involved with parsatatals that were
earmarked for privatization, did not show sufficient cooperation or even tried to impede the reform process. For
instance, some parastatals that were earmarked for privatization did not appear to support the process, and in some
instances, even worked to slow it down. Some ministries seemed reluctant to forego their authority over
parastatals. The resistance may also have stemmed from ideological differences among officials as seen from some
attitudes towards divestiture of port assets and the enactment of a legal framework to regulate the utility sectors. In
some instances it took long to reach consensus due to the open, transparent and inclusive political process in
Tanzania. GOT had to deal with the differing stands taken by unions and other entities. All these factors
contributed to the delay or lack of progress in divestiture/concessioning of THA, TRC, NMB, TANESCO and
DAWASA, though most actions were completed by the extended closing date. Opposition to various elements of
the program could have been reduced through a broader and higher level of consultation during the preparation
and implementation of the program, as has been done by other countries in similar situations. As implementation
of the program progressed, GOT became more proactive in consulting with CSOs, NGOs, the donor community
and some other stakeholders, sometimes with the involvement of the Bank.

5.2.4    Political will: Although GOT maintained its commitment to curb corruption; few practical actions were
taken in this regard. The PCB seemed to have little power, particularly in dealing with potentially larger sources
of corruption, while being somewhat more successful in dealing with petty instances. However, GOT did manage
to lay the basic framework for dealing with corruption, with the potential to extend and improve its reach.

5.2.5    Enforcement of new regulations: It proved difficult for GOT to remove controls on crop movements.
While the policy and regulations were appropriate, bringing about changes in established patterns of behavior
required some time to implement effectively. For example, road barricades initially continued to be maintained
though they were no longer permitted under the new legal regime. Since formal constraints on movement have
been gradually eliminated, recent sector analysis, such as the DTIS survey of agricultural marketing logistics , have
emphasized the continuing constraints arising from other factors such as poor road quality.

5.2.6    Other: The privatization of the State Farms (NAFCO, NARCO) was difficult mainly because of the
nature of the Land Tenure system. In Tanzania, land is owned by the State. A number of potential
buyers--especially foreigners, have been quite unwilling to invest on land that they do not own. The amendments
to the Land Act did not address this issue adequately.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The discussion in section 5.2 applies to the MOF as the implementation agency on behalf of the government.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    The PSAC program was a SDR 141.8 million (US$ 190 million) line of credit to Tanzania on IDA terms
which was approved by the Board on June 15, 2000. It had the following floating tranches:

        l     Effectiveness tranche (SDR 22.4 million equivalent to US$ 30.0 million) which was released on
              August 15, 2000.
        l     Governance tranche (SDR 29.85 million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) released on August 13,
              2001.
        l     Short term tranche (SDR 29.85 equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) which was released in January 8,
              2003.
        l     Business environment tranche (SDR 29.85 million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) released in June



                                                         - 12 -

              30, 2003.
         l    Regulation/Privatization tranche (SDR 29.85 million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) was released in
              May 2004.

5.4.2    After its successful completion, the PSAC operation was closed on May 31, 2004. The IDA reflow
allocations for Tanzania were attached to individual tranches of PSAC-1. The disbursements have followed the
Bank Operational Directive of February 8, 1996, on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural
Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans.

5.4.3    The AfDB had a parallel adjustment program (SAL II) worth US$ 55 million in two tranches, the first of
which was released in September 2002 and the second at closure in June 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the reforms that have been implemented under the PSAC program is rated as Likely.

6.1.1    Strong Government and Political Commitment: The government and political commitment to the
reforms is strong and deep-rooted. There continue to be diverse political views on reform, but few would like to see
any reversal of the progress made so far. Since gaining independence 43 years ago, transitions in leadership have
been through a constitutionally established democratic system, which is widely perceived as stable.

6.1.2    Substantial and Varied Strengthening of Institutions: During the implementation of this program, a
number of permanent structures were put in place that cannot easily be dismantled. (See section 4.5 for details).
For instance, the IFMS system is the primary means of payment for the entire Government system. The
PER/MTEF process has been institutionalized widely as the main process for budget discussions. Furthermore, the
PCB has established a permanent structure in all the regions (and in a number of Districts) in the whole country.
The Commercial Court, which was established under this program, has permanent structures and staff, and is now
fully operational in Dar, while branches are being opened in some selected regions. There have been a number of
other permanent fixtures established in the country following the implementation of this program, which are not
easily reversible. Various laws have been enacted following the required implementation of this program; the
Procurement Act was also amended along the lines envisaged in the PSAC program; and a new Company Law was
enacted to replace the old one to facilitate a better business environment. GOT issued the Land Regulations
officially through the Gazette in 2001, bringing the 1999 Land Act No.4 and the Village Land Act No.5 into effect.
A strategic plan for the implementation of land laws that would operationalize the Land and village Acts, was
approved subsequently. GOT also ensured that land could be used as collateral for commercial transactions. GOT
disseminated the Land Regulations widely to the public through the local press. Most of these legal actions cannot
easily be reversed, adding to the sustainability of the reforms.

6.1.3    Openness: GOT made significant efforts to develop a consensus on various issues addressed by the PSAC
program, through a broadly open, transparent and inclusive process. However, greater effort could have gone into
developing an effective strategy to communicate the benefits of the attempted reforms to the various stakeholders.
As a result, some actions to be taken under the program took much longer than anticipated. For instance, the first
program schedule extension was partly necessitated by additional actions that were required in the case of DSE and
DAWASA. In the case of DSE, additional studies were commissioned to address the Bank of Tanzania's concerns
about possible effects of liberalizing the stock market. As for DAWASA, the shortcomings of the earlier bidding
process needed to be addressed through amending the DAWASA act so as to be consistent with the multi-sector
regulatory framework. The time taken for the legal process for amending the DAWASA Act contributed to the
slippage in the PSAC program schedule. Nevertheless, the open and inclusive manner in which consensus was
sought helped to improve the sustainability of the final achievements.

6.1.4    Continuity and Complementarity in Operations: The PSAC program was a follow-up to SAC I, and




                                                          - 13 -

was complemented by the continuous design and implementation of Poverty Reduction Budget Support (PRBS)
operations. The progress in parallel privatization operations in Tanzania bears adequate evidence to the
sustainability of the PSAC objectives.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1     As explained in section 3, although the PSAC program was designed as a two year program it took nearly
four years to be completed. A number of follow up actions have been taken to solidify reforms and the reform
process through other operations. This is particularly evident in the privatization efforts that were supported
through the PSRC program and PPSD project. However, there are a few PSAC actions, which were not yet fully
brought to closure.

6.2.2     GOT approved a strategy to divest/concession the remaining port facilities in November, 2003, but the
actual divestiture/concession is yet to take place. Although plans to divest the state farms and the cashew nut
plants were approved by the Government in April 2002, they have not yet been fully implemented due to the
difficulties in matters such as land valuation, and the large number and dispersed nature of the ranches and farms.
The other remaining institutions for which agreed actions are still being implemented include the NIC, TRC and
NMB. The Privatisation Impact Assessment carried out in July 2005 found that two transactions in infrastructure
­ the management contract for TANESCO and the concession for the container terminal ­ were rated as clear
successes. The lease for DAWASA was a clear failure, while mixed results were found for the partial divestitures
of TTCL and Air Tanzania. For the two railroads (TRC and TAZARA) and the harbour authority (TPA),
transactions have not yet been completed.

6.2.3     Among the programs that support Tanzania's reform agenda, the PRSC series supports and monitors the
implementation of agreed actions. The PRSC process also reinforces this approach to deepen the reform agenda
for growth and poverty reduction. The Financial Sector Assessment Project (FSAP) is supporting a second
generation of reforms for the financial sector in Tanzania. In addition, the Agricultural Sector Development
Program (ASDP) and the Rural Development Strategy (RDS) are now being implemented to deepen the reforms in
the agricultural/rural sector. Both are addressing issues of rural roads, supply chain system, commercialization of
the agricultural sector, agricultural sector profitability, and the role of the Crop Boards. Finally, the Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS) process is well established in Tanzania, and Tanzania finalized its second PRSP in 2005,
which expands on reforms for poverty reduction and economic growth. The QAG review points out that
privatization of TRC (a loss-making entity) depends on GOT taking measures to repair the existing railway tracks.
In this context, GOT has IDA funding to carry out necessary repairs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Lending: Satisfactory. Overall, the program was prepared and appraised in a manner consistent with GOT's
reform program.

7.1.1     High quality of program preparation, appraisal, design: As discussed in the sections on Quality at
Entry (section 3.5) the program was prepared, appraised and designed with adequate attention to country needs,
government commitment, lessons from past operations, complementarities with other operations, and donor
coordination. Further, the QAG review has rated the Bank's input to this operation as satisfactory.

7.1.2     Close coordination between Government and the World Bank Country Office: Being anchored and
managed from the Country Office, the missions were supplemented by continuous discussions with GOT on the
implementation of the program. During missions, the Bank advised GOT on requirements for the following
tranches. The Bank ensured that tranche releases were aligned with the government budget cycle. Once the



                                                           - 14 -

Government had successfully completed the required actions, the Bank was quick to verify the evidence and
process the tranche release.

7.1.3     Underestimation of time frame: There were some shortcomings on the part of the Bank. First, it was
considered by many that the program was too ambitious, consisting of too many actions to be performed over a
relatively short time span. Second, the flexibility built into the program had the unintended effect during
implementation of gradually delaying the release of tranches and extending the planned two-year time-frame to
four years. The reasons for the delay, which have been explained in the preceding sections, arose partly from the
complexity of the project and insufficient preparatory work in some cases. Third, in some cases, there were delays
in responding to `no-objections' in the hiring of consultants, etc. Decisions on the power sector and the utilities in
general were highly affected by these delays. However, these developments notwithstanding, the Bank did put in
efforts, particularly through improved supervision and intensive consultation with the borrower, to mitigate the
effects of these shortcomings. Therefore, the Bank's performance in this program is generally considered to be
satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

A Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) by a QAG panel in September 2002 rated the quality of supervision
for this program as highly satisfactory overall.

7.2.1     High level of interaction with TTL based in the field: Supervision work on this program has been
intensively conducted by a competent well-staffed team which maintained access to high-level policy makers with
the involvement of the Country Director in key meetings. This process was facilitated by the presence of both the
TTL and the Country Director in the field. There was easy access to top decision-makers, including Ministers, and
the country's President facilitated progress on this complex programmatic structural adjustment operation.

7.2.2     Continuity and good skill mix: The record is one of unusually good staff continuity and skill mix, with
the latter obtained by drawing on staff working on related projects in the country. With the team leader and the
country director based in the in-country office, involvement and contribution were very high. Indeed, formal
missions seem to have largely confirmed and recorded agreements that had already reached through in-country
interactions.

7.2.3     Efforts in engaging stakeholders: During the supervision missions, the Bank opened up the process of
consultations and held meetings with a number of stakeholders outside the Government system. These included
CSOs, NGOs, the donor community, the business community and even members of Parliament. The main objective
was to get a sense of how the program was being implemented.

7.2.4     Proactive support to GOT: The Bank management and the Task Team have been proactive in getting
government support for policy reform, institutional development, private sector development, privatization, and
development of the legal and regulatory framework. The close proximity to the client ensured regular dialogue with
the Government during its implementation. The Bank carried out a number of missions to supervise the
implementation of the program. Each mission had roughly about eight members and lasted for an average of two
weeks. Further, during the missions, the Bank advised the Government on the subsequent requirements for the
following tranches. Problems were identified in a timely manner. The privatization program has proceeded more
slowly than initially envisaged, but as the QAG review observed, the Bank identified the actionable problems in a
timely manner.

7.2.5     Good communication: During the program, the Bank maintained a high level and quality of
communication with the borrower and other donors, as well as within the Bank team itself. The QAG review
noted that a competent and well-staffed team maintained access to high-level policy makers with the involvement
of the Country Director in key meetings. Also, QAG noted that the team produced unusually good aide memoires
and follow-up letters, well focused on key issues and actions. Good communication was also maintained due to
GOT's active involvement, including the fact that the country's President helped facilitate progress on this complex



                                                         - 15 -

programmatic structural adjustment operation. The Bank team also liaised with other donors, including the AfDB,
to coordinate its actions with them, and complement each other's TA activities.

7.2.6    Adequacy of supervision budget: With many different skills required, the team made excellent use of
combined, well-scheduled missions in order to obtain the right skills at reasonable cost.

7.2.7    Scope for improvement: However, as the QAG review also noted, there should have been more
coordination with bilateral donors to strengthen the capacity in the country to advance the work on the preparation
of some key laws and set up the legal and regulatory framework to facilitate privatization of parastatals. For
instance, the water sector law should have been in place before starting the bidding process for the privatization of
DAWASA (the water utility). More attention could have been paid to preparatory work for opening the
Dar-Es-Salaam Stock exchange (DSE) for foreign participation, through supporting TA when it was not
adequately forthcoming from other sources.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower ownership of the program was satisfactory, with strong leadership shown by the President
and his economic ministers, MoF, and the Parastatal Reforms Commission, with whom the Country Director and
TTL conferred regularly. However, support form other stakeholders remained mixed, especially where
privatization and anti-corruption measures were involved.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Borrower (GOT) performance was rated as Satisfactory despite some shortcomings.

7.5.1    GOT's implementation performance was uneven. In some components such as the PFM component,
there was a higher level of both effectiveness and efficiency than has been seen in the past. The enactment of
strategies, laws, and oversight measures was implemented rather slowly, and in some cases with significant delay.
This has been largely a function of the complexity of the Government's reform program, the limited capacity
within government, the already ambitious reforms burden being carried by PSD reform, and the delays in
addressing stakeholder concerns surrounding certain governance measures.

7.5.2    High degree of government commitment: As detailed in various sections, the government showed a high
degree of commitment to the program and the reform process in general. GOT provided the TTL and the Country
Director good access to top decision-makers, including ministers, to consult frequently on the program's
implementation. GOT was also proactive in arranging workshops and meetings for the task team and Bank staff
with various stakeholders groups in the country. The process also benefited greatly from the interest shown by the
President in facilitating this complex program.

7.5.3    Inadequate attention to stakeholder management: The Government's strong commitment
notwithstanding, there were many stakeholders that held differing and contrary views on various aspects of reform.
These included CSOs, NGOs, the spectrum of political parties, and management and staff of parastatals. While
GOT made efforts to reach out to them these issues could have been anticipated and tackled at an earlier stage of
the program cycle.

7.5.4    Lack of coordination with line ministries: Some line ministries that had a role in implementing the
reforms did not seem to be well-informed of the program objectives and the nature of their own involvement. MOF
remained the focal point of this operation with relatively little input from other line ministries and sectors.



                                                        - 16 -

7.5.5    Underestimating the logistics of the reform process: During the implementation, there were a number
of forces that slowed down the process. For instance, GOT underestimated the difficulties in preparing legislation
for the Parliamentary approval. Some sectors and parastatals did not seem to be supportive of the process. As a
consequence, the quality of reforms, particularly those relating to privatization, suffered. Also, the government
faced several capacity constraints, which to its credit, it dealt with in a pragmatic manner with the support of the
Bank. Despite these hurdles and delays, GOT managed to bring the program to a successful closure on May 31,
2004, by completing all planned activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    Satisfactory. MOF acted as the implementing agency for the PSAC program, although many of the sub
components had to be implemented by the respective line ministries and parastatal agencies. MOF as the lead
agency, however, should be commended for competently handling and coordinating a very complex
cross-ministerial program. MOF staff had the required expertise to lead and implement the program. At times,
MOF capacity was weak, which affected the pace and quality of implementation of program components to varying
degrees.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The following lessons are learnt from this operation:

    l    Need for government commitment: Government commitment in both planning and implementation of a
         complex program such as PSAC, is paramount.

    l    Recognizing limitations and constraints faced by governments: It is important to gauge very carefully
         any actions that are outside the Government's powers.

    l    Need for an effective communication strategy to develop stakeholder consensus. Where far-reaching
         reforms that affect many stakeholders are being attempted, it is crucial to develop an appropriate
         communication strategy at an early stage, to effectively communicate the benefits of the attempted actions,
         so as to achieve a workable consensus.

    l    Involving downstream/partner implementing agencies at an early stage: It is important for the MOF
         to involve at the preparation stage, other Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) that will be
         subsequently involved in the implementation of the program. Experience has shown that if these entities
         are not co-opted from the beginning, implementation can become very difficult.

    l    Being realistic in program design and implementation: It is important to be as realistic as possible in
         designing programs such as PSAC. There is a tendency to underestimate government capacity and
         constraints, which can result in adding more items to the program agenda than can be fulfilled in the
         given time frame. In the case of the PSAC program, it soon became evident that GOT may not be able to
         handle all the agreed actions within the two-year period specified originally. Notwithstanding
         shortcomings in program design, program actions should be constantly re-assessed during implementation
         and suitable action taken to either modify or drop them if necessary. In the case of the PSAC program,
         the over-emphasis on galvanizing support for reform through conditionalities appears to have contributed
         in some cases to lower quality outcomes.

    l    Effective design of complex actions: Where a complex and multi-step activity is involved, it is crucial to
         lay out the steps clearly and to pay attention to their sequence and linkages. In the case of DAWASA,
         PSAC appears to have been overly concerned with the preliminary actions and legislation that were



                                                          - 17 -

        needed to set the stage for privatization, without sufficient attention to their linkage with the actual
        privatization process. This contributed to avoidable delay and retracing of steps when it came to
        following through with the DAWASA privatization process.

    l   Advantages of the flexibility of floating tranche design: The innovation of floating tranches provided
        flexibility to address the difficulties in each tranche separately and provided an additional incentive for
        government compliance compared to single tranche operations.

    l   Building crucial capacity at an early stage: The PSAC program laid the ground work and institutional
        capacity building that were relevant to many of the reforms currently underway either through private
        sector project operations or PRSC. This ensured that the institutional and implementation capacity was
        better addressed.

    l   Importance of involvement of the Country Office: The PSAC program was prepared and supervised
        from the Bank's Country Office. The close proximity with the client enhanced the dialogue, and
        reinforced the supervision. In addition, the Country Director stationed in the field coordinated this
        process. Without this coordination, it is likely that there would have been some inconsistencies in policy
        advice from different sector missions.

    l   Improving predictability of resource flows: PSAC operation lacked predictability and the program that
        was to be implemented over two years was fully implemented only after four years. This shows the need
        for improving the predictability of resource flows to the budget, a lesson that was well picked up through
        the follow-on PRSC operations.

    l   Coordinating with bilaterals and other IFIs: A systemic lesson is that the Bank should try to have
        effective coordination of all TA activities relevant to a project, including those funded by other sources.
        When bilaterally financed TA activities need to complemented by additional resources, the borrower
        should have the flexibility to hire additional advisors using Bank funds. The use of Bank funds should
        also be considered when bilateral financing is running out and there is need to keep the TA going.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    Borrower's report is attached as Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Objectives    Strategies and Measures                  Status       Remarks
and policies
A. Enhance         Short Term Tranche                  Implemented  The tranche was released in late December
regulatory    (i)        The GOT prepared an                        2002/early January, 2003.
framework     MTEF for 2000/01-2002/03 and
for key       approved a budget for 2000/01 with
sectors,      priority allocation to basic                          The PER/MTEF process is taken as budgeting
improving     education, primary health, water,                     tools to allocate resources according to the
transparency  rural roads, judiciary, and                           priority sectors identified under the PRS
and           agricultural research and extension,                  specifications.
competition   and activities to combat HIV/AIDS.
              (ii)       In the 2000/01 budget, the    Implemented  The performance of the Government was over
              GOT increased (a) the share of the                    and above the agreed actions. In other words,
              total allocation to the priority areas                actual allocations to the specified priority
              in total discretionary recurrent                      sectors were more than the agreed minimum
              expenditures by at least two                          of 2 percent.
              percentage points over the 1999/00
              budget; and (b) the share of the
              allocation to "Other Charges" for
              the priority areas in total
              discretionary recurrent expenditures
              by at least two percentage points
              over the 1999/00 budget.
             (iii)       The Government has           Implemented  The Government's policy on this matter
             adopted mutually acceptable                           is that unless the institution to be
             consistent policies for the treatment of              privatized is making profit, all the
             PE employee retrenchment and debt.                    retrenchees will only get the statutory
                                                                   benefits.
             (iv)        The Government has           Implemented  The concessioning of DAWASA took a
             brought DAWASA to a point of                          long time to go through due diligence. As
             concession/lease .                                    a result, tranche release was delayed to
                                                                   January, 2003. DAWASA was brought
                                                                   to the point of concession/lease in Jan
                                                                   2003, and a contract was awarded to a
                                                                   qualified bidder through a competitive
                                                                   bidding process.

              (v)        The Government has            Implemented  The decision reached was to divest 49 percent
              revised and approved the                              of the shares.     Final negotiations with the
              memorandum of understanding                           preferred bidder for the partial privatization
              between NMB and the Ministry of                       of NMB were completed and, in 2005, the
              Finance, based on the business plan                   Government concluded the sale of NMB.
              adopted by the NMB Board; and
              approved strategy for divestiture of
              NMB.



B.                 Governance



                                                     - 19 -

                                                                   All actions were completed and the tranche
Ensure         Public Finance Management                           was released in August, 2001.
accountabilit
y, curb        (i)       Only Integrated Financial    Implemented  The entire Government payment system now
corruption     Management System used as                           is wholly through the IFMS arrangement.
and establish  central government budgeting,                       The old systems of LPOs and IOUs were
an             accounting, and financial                           disbanded.     The     Integrated     Financial
efficient/effe information systems for the                         Management System (IFMS) was introduced
ctive public   recurrent expenditure and                           in all Ministries and sub-treasuries as the
service        reclassified the development                        primary mechanism for the release of funds
delivery       budget according to the GFS.                        and the Government started to develop a
                                                                   public    expenditure   tracking   mechanism.
                                                                   IFMS and EPICOR software was rolled out to
                                                                   28 local authorities on a pilot basis under
                                                                   phase I of the LGRP initiative while 42 more
                                                                   were targeted under the phase that began in
                                                                   January 2002.
               Anti Corruption and Accountability

               (ii)      Carried out corruption       Implemented  The     Government      has    extended     the
               diagnostic surveys in the Ministries                operational   strategies   for  anti-corruption
               of Works, Education, Health, and                    measures and accountability to the Regions
               Home Affairs; the Judiciary,                        and Districts. A draft new Anti-Corruption
               Attorney General's office, and                      Law      prepared   by    the   Law    Reform
               TRA; and approved operational                       Commission is being reviewed by the
               strategies for these areas.                         government. This process is taking longer
                                                                   than anticipated due to need to provide a
                                                                   comprehensive framework for the effective
                                                                   prosecution of incidents of corruption, to
                                                                   facilitate convictions and recovery of assets
                                                                   from prosecution.     The new laws would
                                                                   contain provisions that would allow the PCB
                                                                   unfettered access to information and evidence
                                                                   deemed necessary for fulfilling its mandate.
                                                                   Presently, PCB is considered as "lacking
                                                                   teeth" as it only focuses on petty corruption
                                                                   and not so much on the potentially larger
                                                                   sources of corruption.     On the whole, the
                                                                   Bank's      governance      indicators   show
                                                                   substantial improvement in the rule of law
                                                                   (percentile rank improved from 25.3 to 39.6)
                                                                   and the control of corruption, (percentile rank
                                                                   improved from 9.3 to 36.0) between 1996 and
                                                                   2004.
              (iii)      Approved new                Implemented  A new Public Procurement Act was
              procurement law and regulations that                passed by the Parliament in November
              permit greater transparency and                     2004 which improved upon the previous
              integrity in procurement and the                    legislation passed in February 2001, in
              Central Tender Board has adopted                    order to ensure greater transparency and
              decision to announce tender results                 integrity in the process of procurement.
              through press release.                              Tender results started to be announced
                                                                  through the local press beginning with
                                                                  the period January - September, 2000.



                                                    - 20 -

             Effectiveness and Efficiency in
             Public Service Delivery

             (iv)      Developed and approved       Implemented  With this arrangement, the Government is
             strategic and annual plans, and                     now pursuing Performance Budgeting in
             Performance Budgets in the                          these areas.
             ministries of Agriculture,
             Education, Health, Water, and in
             the CSD.
             (v)       Transferred management       Implemented
             and operation of trunk and regional
             roads network to TANROADS.
C.          Business Environment                                All conditions were met and the tranche
Create a                                                        was released in June, 2003.
conducive   Investment       Facilitation      and
environment Promotion                                           TIC has been restructured and re-staffed.
for the     (i)        Restructured and re-staffed              TIC's corporate plan for 2000-05 is being
conduct of  TIC to serve as an investment                       implemented.         TIC    is   now    a
business    promotion agency in line with the                   `One-Stop-Centre'. All staff is currently
            mission of the new corporate strategy  Implemented  on 2-year contracts with semi-annual
            and the 1997 Investment Act.                        appraisal.
            Legal Framework

            (ii)       Approved the Commercial     Implemented  The     Commercial       Court    ("CC")
            Court (CC) project plan, taking into                management system including filing, has
            account relations with the existing                 been computerized.       The permanent
            court system. Established an                        premise of the "CC" at Kivukoni Court
            automatic filing and registry system                House has been fully refurbished and the
            through computerization.                            "CC" was      formally launched May 11,
                                                                2001. The "CC" currently operates from
                                                                there. At the moment, CC is planning to
                                                                open up branches in some selected
                                                                regions.
            (iii)      Submitted the new           Implemented  A new Companies legislation was passed
            Companies legislation to Parliament                 by Parliament and assented to by the
            for approval.                                       President. It is now operational.
            Crop Movement

            (iv)       Rationalized physical       Implemented  There had been an outstanding order of
            controls constraining crop movements                1981 instructing no restrictions of crop
            within and across international                     movement but implementation was lax.
            borders, to periods of national                     The     Government        re-issued    an
            emergency only; and subjected such                  Order/Notice in 2003 to reinforce the
            movements to the existing trade                     implementation of that requirement.
            procedures.
            Tax Regime

            (v)        Unified tax appeal system   Implemented  Chief executive and core staff were
            has become operational.                             appointed and now the system is fully
                                                                operational.
            (vi)       Simplified the application  Implemented  Excise Duty is currently levied on only 6
            of excise and withholding taxes and                 items (beer, wine & spirits, tobacco, soft
            expedited the payments of VAT                       drinks, petroleum, and some motor



                                                  - 21 -

               refunds.                                               vehicles).   Refund procedures for VAT
                                                                      have been reviewed.      Since July 2000
                                                                      VAT refund requests are being made
                                                                      within the statutory 30 days, provided an
                                                                      auditor certifies them. There is a uniform
                                                                      withholding tax rate for all investors
                                                                      excluding those in mining, infrastructure
                                                                      and stock exchange.
               (vii)      Enforced the limit for        Implemented   All new by-laws adopted by Local
               crop/livestock cess to those established               Authorities are consistent. In the budget
               under the Finance Bill for 1999/00;                    guidelines for fiscal year 2001 and
               and enforced the exemptions from                       2001/02; LAs were required to observe
               stamp duty on proceeds on                              the 5% limit for crop cess; and the
               agricultural trade.                                    exemption from stamp duty on sale of
                                                                      agricultural produce and livestock as per
                                                                      Finance Bill for 1999/00. The lower cess
                                                                      has been sustained but the impact of
                                                                      higher returns to producers has been
                                                                      partially offset by exchange rate
                                                                      appreciation and in some cases adverse
                                                                      world price movements.
               Capital Markets
                                                                      The decision to carry out additional
               (viii)     Approved and                  Implemented.  studies on the impact of the opening up of
               implemented a proposal to relax                        the DSE to foreign investors caused
               restrictions on foreign portfolio                      delays in the completion of this action,
               investment in equity instrument with                   and led to the first extension of the
               appropriate safeguards.                                program. Finally the Government opened
                                                                      the DSE for foreign portfolio investors'
                                                                      participation with effect from May 21,
                                                                      2003 and the tranche was released on
                                                                      June 30, 2003.

D.             Regulation and Privatization
Establish a                                                           This last tranche was released in May,
Regulatory     Regulatory Framework for                               2004 after which the program was closed
Framework      Infrastructure Services                                on May 31, 2004.
for a
competitive    (i)        Adopted mutually              Implemented   Legislation passed in April 2001 to
environment acceptable over-arching enabling                          establish Surface and Marine Transport
in the utility legislation for the utilities and                      Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA).          In
sector and to transport sectors for creation of                       November,      2002,    the    Government
deepen the     independent, cross-sectoral regulatory                 reviewed the regulatory environment and
Privatization institution(s) for establishment of                     decided on the creation of FOUR
process.       pro-competitive market structures and                  institutions,       i.e.     (i)     Mass
               regulatory frameworks.                                 Communications Regulatory Authority
                                                                      (MCRA); (ii)Civil Aviation Regulatory
                                                                      Authority (CARA); (iii) Tanzania Public
                                                                      Utilities Regulatory Authority (TPURA)
                                                                      and (iv) Tanzania Transport Regulatory
                                                                      Authority        (TTRA).       Legislations
                                                                      establishing the        FOUR Regulatory
                                                                      Authorities    plus the Fair Competition



                                                       - 22 -

                                                                   Commission were passed by Parliament
                                                                   in April, 2003.
              (ii)       Established                  Implemented
              pro-competitive regulatory                           While pro-competitive regulatory
              frameworks in the                                    frameworks have been established,
              telecommunications, broadcasting,                    regulatory bodies are still young or yet to
              water, electricity, ports/marine,                    be established (power and water), and
              railways, and aviation sectors, within               their ability to monitor and enforce
              the framework of the overall enabling                contracts has yet to be tested. The
              legislation, adopting where necessary                present allocation of responsibilities in
              subsidiary sectoral legislation.                     the Tanzanian policy framework is
                                                                   satisfactory, with line ministries being
                                                                   responsible for monitoring or parastatals,
                                                                   regulatory agencies for economic,
                                                                   environmental and safety regulation etc.
                                                                   More needs to be done in assessing the
                                                                   impact of privatization, an appropriate
                                                                   role for PSRC. Also, the experience
                                                                   gained by PSRC in privatization
                                                                   transactions should be preserved after this
                                                                   task winds down, by transferring relevant
                                                                   personnel to regulatory bodies.
              (iii)      Issued technical             Implemented  The legislation empowering the Minister
              regulations for a liberalized petroleum              responsible for the Energy sector to issue
              sector ensuring quality and safety of                technical regulations for a liberalized
              petroleum products.                                  petroleum sector was passed by
                                                                   Parliament in April, 2003; and the
                                                                   Technical Regulations for the sector have
                                                                   been gazetted and are in use.
Privatize     Privatization                                        THA's Container Terminal was leased
infrastructure                                                     for 10years with effect from September,
service       (iv)       Approved plans for           Implemented  2000. Consultant Advisors, M/s. RMG of
provision     concessioning of remaining port assets               Netherlands already submitted a        final
              and services.                                        report on the privatization options study
                                                                   for the rest of the ports' assets and
                                                                   services. Government is yet to make a
                                                                   decision on the report.
                                                                   Proposals have already been discussed
                                                                   and passed by the Inter-ministerial
                                                                   Committee of Permanent Secretaries
                                                                   (IMTC); they are now at the final
                                                                   decision stage of the Government.
              (v)        Brought rail services to a   Implemented  Government went through the full length
              point of concession/lease.                           of the bidding process to get a
                                                                   concessionaire for TRC, but at the end of
                                                                   the process none of the pre-qualified
                                                                   bidders submitted a bid. The Government
                                                                   remains committed to concessioning TRC
                                                                   and it has instructed PSRC to start the
                                                                   re-bid process after reviewing and
                                                                   improving the bid document in light of
                                                                   views/concerns from potential bidders in
                                                                   the first round.



                                                     - 23 -

(vi)       Approved a strategy for     Implemented  The Government approved the strategy
re-organizing TANESCO and                           for re-organizing TANESCO and
restructuring the Electricity sector.               restructuring the electricity sector in 1999
                                                    and subsequently consultants were
                                                    engaged for Restructuring and Trade
                                                    Arrangements Options studies for
                                                    TANESCO.       The Restructuring and
                                                    Trade arrangements reports were
                                                    completed and submitted to the
                                                    Government.

(vii)      Approved a strategy for the Implemented  NIC Audit and Operations Review was
divestiture/sale of NIC.                            completed in October 2002;
                                                    NIC market review and privatization
                                                    options study was completed in June
                                                    2002;
                                                    Actuarial   Valuation      of   NIC     was
                                                    completed in November 2003;
                                                    In March 2004, the Cabinet approved the
                                                    sale of NIC's life and non-life business.
(viii)     Developed and approved      Implemented  The strategy for divesting Cashew nut
options for divesting the remaining                 processing factories was approved in
cashew nut processing plants,                       April, 2002, and the facilities were
NARCO ranches, and NAFCO wheat,                     advertised in May, 2002. The strategy for
rice and maize farms                                divesting NARCO ranches, DAFCO and
                                                    NAFCO farms was also approved by
                                                    Government at the same time, April,
                                                    2002.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


        The PSAC program was a SDR 141.8 million (US$ 190 million) line of credit to Tanzania (on IDA
terms) which was approved by the Board on June 15, 2000. It had the following floating tranches:

        i)       Effectiveness tranche (SDR 22.4 million equivalent to US$ 30.0 million) which was released on
        August 15, 2000.
        ii)      Governance tranche (SDR 29.85 million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) released on August 13,
        2001.
        iii)     Short term tranche (SDR 29.85 equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) which was released in January 8,
        2003.
        iv)      Business environment tranche (SDR 29.85 million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) released in
        June 30, 2003.
        v)       Regulation/Privatization tranche (SDR 29.85 million equivalent to US$ 40.0 million) was
        released in May, 2004.

        The AfDB had a parallel adjustment program (SAL) worth US$ 55 million. After its successful
completion, the PSAC operation was closed on May 31, 2004.




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Dec 1999


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Mar 2000                        Team Leader/Macro Econ               S               S
                                               (1); Macro Econ (5); Private
                                               Sec Spec (5)

 Supervision
               Aug 2001 - Dec                  Team Leader/Macro Econ               S               S
               2004                            (1); Macro Econ (4); Private
                                               Sec Spec (3); Fin Mgt Spec.
                                               (1); Legal Counsel (1)


 ICR
               June 2005                       Team Leader/Macro Econ               S               S
                                               (1); Macro Econ (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   6                            21
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       12                            46
  Supervision                                 70                           203
  ICR                                      N/A                             N/A
  Total                                       88                           270




                                               - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



1.       Government Evaluation Report
2.       Development Credit Agreement
3.       Supervision Reports
4.       Mission Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Tranche Release Memos
5.       Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC): Report and Recommendation of the President of the
IDA to the Executive Directors: June 8, 2000 (Report No. P-7376-TA).
6.       Country Assistance Strategy 2000
7.       Public Expenditure Reviews 2000-2004
8.       Country Economic Memorandum, 2000
9.       Structural Adjustment Credit I (SAC I): President's Report: May 7, 1997, (Report No. P7127)
10.      Structural Adjustment Credit I (SAC I): Implementation Completion Report dated May 02, 2005 (Report
No. 22150)
11.      Poverty Reduction Structural Credit (PRSC): April 29, 2003 (Report No. 25807)
12.      Poverty Reduction Structural Credit (PRSC): ICR: January 27, 2005 (Report No. 31021)
13.      Assistance to Tanzania on the Enhanced HIPC Initiative: Memorandum of the President: November 8,
2001 (Report No. P7492).
14.      World Bank. 2005. "Towards Growth and Poverty Reduction: Lessons from Private Participation in
Infrastructure in Sub-Saharan Africa. Cape Town, South Africa, June 6-7, 2005. Conference proceedings.




Government Evaluation Report---->>>




                                                      - 30 -

- 31 -

