Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3379-3-TA 
(Third Amendment) 
 
Third Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   June  30,  2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3379-3-TA 
(Third Amendment) 
THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated  June  30 , 2003, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit), dated 
July 21, 2000 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support 
dur
ing the execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment 
of the Borrower’s economy as described in Recital (A) of the Development Credit 
Agreement (the Program); 
 
(B) 
pursuant to an Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement and 
a
Second Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement, as amended, between the 
Borrower and the Association dated January 29, 2001, and February 15, 2002, respectively, 
the Association has agreed to provide additional assistance in support of the Program;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of the Program, by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
hundred ninety thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 290,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance, representing the FY2003 allocation under the 
Association’s Fifth Dimension Program (the Fifth Dimension Program) established in 
1998, to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
the “and” at the end of paragraph (z) is deleted, and the period at the end of 
paragraph (aa) is replaced with a semicolon and the word “and”; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
adding a new paragraph (bb) which shall read as follows: 
 
“(bb)  “Third Amending Agreement” means the Third Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association, dated June  30, 2003.” 
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
forty-three million one hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 143,140,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount 
in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-one million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,800,000) (the 
Initial Financing); (b) an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 600,000) (the First Additional Financing); (c) an additional amount 
in various currencies equivalent to four hundred fifty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 450,000) (the Second Additional Financing); and 
(d) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred 
ninety thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 290,000 ) (the Third 
Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended in its 
entirety to read as follows: 
“Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), 
(e), (f) and (g) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw 
the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the 
Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association 
the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in US dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
Page  4
-
3
-
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) 
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 22,400,000, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;  
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken in respect of the respective 
Tranche.  
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the 
Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
(e) 
After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Additional Financing.  At any time after such date, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Additional Financing or any part thereof. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(f) 
After a date twelve months from the date of the Second 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit 
Account in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Second Additional Financing.  At any time after such date, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Second Additional Financing or any part thereof. 
(g) 
After a date twelve months (or such later date as the Association 
shall establish and promptly notify the Borrower) from the date of the 
Third Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the 
Credit Account in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Third Additional Financing.  At any time after such date, 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Third Additional Financing or any part thereof.” 
 
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso
reading: 
 
“provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (A) the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement; (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement; 
and (C) the Third Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days 
after the date of the Third Amending Agreement.” 
Section 1.05. A new Category (8) (FY03 IDA Reflow Tranche) is added to the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as set forth in the 
Annex to this Third Amending Agreement”. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Third Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Third Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower 
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Third Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association from counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Third Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Third Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Third Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Third Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Third Amending Agreement, this 
Third Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Third 
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Third 
Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Third Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By 
         /s/  Andrew Danaja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
     /s/  Callisto Madavo 
Authorized Representative 
Africa 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Annex 
“SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the  
Credit and Excluded Expenditures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below 
sets forth the amounts in SDR allocated to the specific Tranches to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account. 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)   Effectiveness Tranche 
 
22,400,000 100% 
(2)   Short Term Tranche 
 
29,850,000 100% 
(3)   Economic Governance Tranche  
 
29,850,000 100% 
(4)   Business Environment Tranche 
 
29,850,000 100% 
(5)   Privatization and Regulation Tranche 
 
29,850,000 100% 
(6)   FY01 IDA Reflows Tranche 
 
600,000 
 
100% 
(7)   FY02 IDA Reflows Tranche 
 
450,000 
 
100% 
(8)   FY03 IDA Reflows Tranche 
 
290,000 
__________ 
100% 
TOTAL 
143,140,000” 
========= 
 
1` 
 
