Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3379-TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  July 21, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3379-TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 21, 2000 between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter 
dated May 8, 2000, (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy 
or LDP) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy for the period 
FY2000-2004 (the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association 
in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided, in support of the first phase of the Program covering 
FY2000-2002 to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in five tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.";
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine."
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section  2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these 
General Conditions";
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.";
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07; and
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word "radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  3
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"FY" means Fiscal Year of the Borrower commencing July 1and 
ending June 30;
(c)
"MTEF" means Medium Term Expenditure Framework;
(d)
"Land Act" means the Land Act Number 4 of 1999 of the laws 
of the Borrower;
(e)
"TRA" means Tanzania Revenue Authority established pursuant 
to the Tanzania Revenue Authority Act Number 11 of 1995 of the laws of 
the Borrower;
(f) 
"TANROADS" means Tanzania National Roads Agency, an 
Executive Agency of the Ministry of Works established, pursuant to the 
Executive Agencies Act,1997 of the laws of the Borrower;
(g) 
"TIC" means the Tanzania Investment Center, established 
pursuant to the Tanzania Investment Act Number 26 of 1997 of the laws of 
the Borrower;
(h) 
"BOT" means Bank of Tanzania, the Borrower’s Central Bank, 
established pursuant to the Bank of Tanzania Act Number 1 of 1995 of the 
laws of the Borrower;
(i) 
"VAT" means Value Added Tax established pursuant to the 
Value Added Tax Act November 24 of 1997 of the laws of the Borrower;
(j) 
"TTCL" means Tanzania Telecommunications Company Ltd 
established pursuant to the Tanzania Telecommunications Company 
Incorporation Act Number 20 of 1993 of the laws of the Borrower;
(k) 
"TANESCO" means Tanzania Electric Supply Company, 
incorporated under the Companies Ordinance Cap 212 of the laws of the 
Borrower,
(l) 
"DAWASA" means the Dar es Salaam Water Supply and Sewerage 
Authority, established pursuant to Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) 
Act 1997 which amended the National Urban Authority Act of 1981 of the 
laws of the Borrower;
(m)
"NMB" means National Microfinance Bank established, pursuant 
to the National Microfinance Bank Limited Incorporation Act Number 22 of 
1997 of the laws of the Borrower;
(n)
"NIC" means National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Ltd 
established, pursuant to the Insurance (Vesting of Interest and 
Regulation) Act, 1967 of the laws of the Borrower;
(o)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance;
(p) 
"Tranche" means each of the following: (i) the Effectiveness 
Tranche; (ii) the Short-Term Tranche; (iii) the Economic Governance 
Tranche; (iv) the Business Environment Tranche or (v) the Privatization 
and Regulation Tranche, as hereinafter defined;
(q)
"Effectiveness Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in 
Category 1 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be released 
Page  4
by the Association on or after the Effective Date;
(r)
"Short-Term Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in 
Category 2 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released 
by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred 
to in Part 1of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been met;
(s)
"Economic Governance Tranche" means the Tranche referred to 
in Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be 
released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions 
referred to in Part 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been met;
(t) 
"Business Environment Tranche" means the Tranche referred to 
in Category (4) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be 
released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions 
referred to in Part 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been met;
(u) 
"Privatization and Regulation Tranche" means the Tranche 
referred to in Category (5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be released by the Association on or after the date on 
which the conditions referred to in Part 4 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been met;
(v) 
"bring to the point of concession" means that the Borrower 
has taken the following steps: (i) invited firms to prequalify; (ii) 
carried out the prequalification exercise and has announced the 
prequalified bidders (if any); (iii) invited the prequalified bidders to 
submit financial proposals; (iv) announced in the press the results of 
financial proposals submitted by bidders; and (v) selected the 
concessionaire (if any), all in accordance with the Manual for 
Privatization Procedures and Process Guidelines, November 1999, issued by 
the Borrower;
(w)
"NARCO" means National Ranching Company established in 1974 
under the Companies Ordinance, Cap 212 of the laws of the Borrower; and
(x)
"NAFCO" means National Agricultural and Food Corporation 
established by Act Number 17 of 1969 of the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred forty-one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 141,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in US dollars 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after 
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 22,400,000, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described 
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association ; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken in 
respect of the respective 
Tranche. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, 
the Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
Page  6
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending October 1, 2040.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  7
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement  is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for Finance is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
TREASURY
255 51 110 326
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Daniel N. Yona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Benno Ndulu
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Schedule, the table below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific 
Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
 Percent of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Effectiveness Tranche 
   22,400,000
100% 
(2)
Short Term Tranche
   29,850,000
100% 
(3)
Economic
   29,850,000
100% 
Governance Tranche
(4)
Business Environment
   29,850,000
100% 
Tranche
(5)
Privatization
   29,850,000
100% 
and Regulation Tranche
TOTAL
  141,800,000
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, for purposes of 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
Page  9
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, 
or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations;
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation; and
8.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) above, withdrawals 
may be made by the Borrower in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) or (5) 
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, at any time when the 
Page  10
Association shall be satisfied after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that (a) the requirements of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
attached to the respective Tranche have been fulfilled, and (b) the 
Borrower has fulfilled the requirements of Section 2.02 (d) of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Part 1:
Conditions for the Release of the Short-Term Tranche
1.
The Borrower has (a) prepared a MTEF for FY01-03, and (b) approved 
the budget for FY01, consistent with the MTEF, which reflects (i) an 
increase in the share of the total allocation to the priority areas 
(basic education, primary health, water, rural roads, judiciary, 
agricultural research and extension, activities to combat HIV/AIDS) in 
total discretionary recurrent expenditures of at least two percentage 
points over the FY00 budget; and (ii) an increase in the share of the 
allocation to "Other Charges" for the priority areas, referred to in (i) 
above, in total discretionary recurrent expenditures of at least two 
percentage points over the FY00 budget, as provided in paragraph 20 of 
the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has: (a) based on the business plan adopted by the NMB 
Board on November 9, 1999 revised and approved the memorandum of 
understanding, dated December 5, 1998, between NMB, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Tanzania; and (b) approved a strategy 
for divestiture of NMB; all in accordance with paragraph 46 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has: (a) issued (published in its Official Gazette) 
the Land Regulations (i) making the new Land Act effective, and (ii) 
ensuring that land can be used as collateral for commercial transactions; 
and (b) disseminated the Land Regulations widely to the public through 
the local press; all in accordance with paragraph 28 of the LDP.
4.
The Borrower has adopted policies to be applied consistently for 
the treatment of: (a) retrenched employees of the public enterprises, and 
(b) public enterprise debt; all in accordance with paragraph 39 of the 
LDP.
5.
The Borrower has brought DAWASA to a point of concession/lease, in 
accordance with paragraph 43 of the LDP.
Part 2:
Conditions for the Release of the Economic Governance 
Tranche
1.
The Borrower has: (a) rolled out the computerized Integrated 
Financial Management System (IFMS) to all ministries and all 
sub-treasuries; (b) taken measures to ensure that only IFMS is used as 
the central government budgeting, accounting and financial management 
system for the recurrent expenditures; and (c) reclassified the 
development budget according to the Government Finance Statistics (GFS) 
classification; all in accordance with paragraph 21 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has: (a) carried out corruption diagnostic surveys 
with the objective of identifying systemic weaknesses which may be 
conducive to corrupt practices in the Ministries of Works, Education and 
Culture, Health, and Home Affairs; the Judiciary, Attorney General’s 
office, and TRA; and (b) approved operational strategies to combat and 
prevent corruption in each of the institutions referred to in (a) above; 
all in accordance with paragraph 22 of the LDP.
3.
(a)
The Borrower has presented to Parliament for approval a new 
procurement law and has issued regulations to permit greater transparency 
and promote integrity in the procurement of public works, goods and 
Page  11
services, as provided in paragraph 22 of the LDP.
(b)
The Central Tender Board has adopted a decision to publish 
in the local press the results of public tenders, as provided in 
paragraph 22 of the LDP.
4.
The Borrower has developed and approved strategic and annual plans, 
and performance budgets in the ministries of Agriculture and 
Cooperatives, Education and Culture, Health, Water, and in the Civil 
Service Department with the objective of enhancing efficiency and quality 
in the delivery of public services, as provided in paragraph 23 of the 
LDP.
5.
The Borrower has transferred the responsibility for the management 
and operation of the trunk and regional roads network to TANROADS, in 
accordance with paragraph 23 of the LDP.
Part 3:
Conditions for the Release of the Business Environment 
Tranche
1.
The Borrower has restructured TIC consistent with the revised 
Investment Act 1997, and implemented the new organization structure with 
new corporate strategy, including competitive recruitment of TIC staff 
based on qualification, experience and integrity, in accordance with 
paragraph 25 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has approved the commercial court project plan, taking 
into account relations with the existing court system, as provided in 
paragraph 26 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has submitted the new companies legislation to 
Parliament for approval, as provided in paragraph 27 of the LDP.
4.
The Borrower has issued regulations under the Local Government Act 
rationalizing the use of physical controls constraining crop movements 
within the country and across international borders to periods of 
national emergency only; and subjected such movements to the existing 
trade procedures, in accordance with paragraph 30 of the LDP.
5.
The Borrower has: (a) issued regulations/rules to make the unified 
tax appeal system operational; (b) expedited the payments of VAT refunds 
within the period provided under the law; (c) under the Finance Bill 2000 
(i) eliminated 46 items out of the 52 items subject to excise tax; and 
(ii) rationalized the differential rates of withholding taxes among the 
different economic sectors, other than mining, infrastructure, and the 
stock exchange; all as provided in paragraph 32 of the LDP.
6.
The Borrower has: (a) begun to enforce the limit for crop/ 
livestock cess as provided under the Finance Act, 1999; and (b) begun to 
implement exemptions from stamp duty on proceeds from agricultural trade 
transactions; all as provided in paragraph 33 of the LDP.
7.
The Borrower has approved and implemented a proposal to relax 
restrictions on foreign portfolio investment in the Dar es Salaam Stock 
Exchange, with appropriate safeguards, as provided in paragraph 29 of the 
LDP.
Part 4:
Conditions for the Release of the Privatization and 
Regulation Tranche
1.
The Borrower has: (a) presented to Parliament for approval the 
necessary enabling legislation for the establishment of independent 
cross-sectoral regulatory institutions covering telecommunication, 
broadcasting, electricity, water, railways, aviation and ports/maritime 
sectors, with the objective of establishing a coherent, modern and 
pro-competition market structures and regulatory frameworks; and (b) 
Page  12
presented to Parliament for approval the necessary amendments to current 
legislation related to the sectors referred to in (a) above with the 
objective of making such legislation consistent with the enabling 
legislation referred to in (a) above, as provided for in paragraphs 35, 
36 and 37 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has issued technical regulations under the Petroleum 
Conservation Act of 1981 ensuring the quality and safety of petroleum 
products, in accordance with paragraph 38 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has approved a strategy for the privatization of all 
Tanzania Harbors Authority (THA) services and the sale of non-core 
assets, with the exception of the Dar es Salaam Container Terminal, in 
accordance with paragraph 40 of the LDP.
4.
The Borrower has approved a strategy for reorganizing TANESCO and 
restructuring the electricity sector with the objective of introducing 
competition in the generation and distribution of electric power, in 
accordance with paragraph 42 of the LDP.
5.
The Borrower has brought TRC’s rail services to a point of 
concession/lease, in accordance with paragraph 45 of the LDP.
6.
The Borrower has: (a) carried out an audit, property valuation, and 
actuarial study of NIC, and (b) approved a strategy for the divestiture 
of NIC, in accordance with paragraph 47 of the LDP.
7.
The Borrower has developed and approved options for divesting or 
liquidating: (a) the remaining cashew nut processing plants, (b) NARCO 
ranches, and (c) NAFCO wheat, rice and maize farms, in accordance with 
paragraph 49 of the LDP.
