/-   <      ::' -  2   (//
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICPIOFICHE (;UPY
Report No.:101989-CH         Type:  (SAR)
Tit"le:   ENVTRONMFINTAL INS,TJTT1TTC)N'S. DEV            Report No. 10989-Ce
Author: P18ANI,  L
Ext..:39259 Room:16179 Dept. :LA4Hik
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 26, 1992
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Operations Department IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Current Rate (Official): US$1 = Ch$339 (Average 1991)
US$1 = Ch$355 (June 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m.)                  =  3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km.)             =  0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =  0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m. ton)         =  1.1 US short ton (sh. ton)
1 liter (1.)                  =  0.264178 US gallon (gal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE OnLY
ii -
AUBREVIATIONS AND ACRONIMS
AID          US Agency for International Development (igencia Internacional para
el Desarrollo)
BALSED       Basic Law for Sustainable Environmental Development (Ley de Base
para el Desarrollo del Medio Ambiente)
CEDRM        Special Commission for Decontamination of the Metropolitan Region
(Comisidn Especial de Descontaminaci6n de la Regi6n Metropolitana)
CODELCO      National Copper Corporation (Corporaci6n del Cobre)
COLMZ        Environmental Legislation Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de
Legislac:46n Ambiental)
CONADE       National Ecological Commission (Comision Nacional de Ecologia)
CONAF        National Forestry Corporation (Corporaci6n Nacional Forestal)
CONAMk       National Environmental Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Medio
Ambiente)
COREMA       Regional Environmental Commission (Comisi6n Regional de Medio
Ambiente)
EA           Environmental Assessment (Evaluacion Ambiental)
EDU          Environmental Documentation Unit (Unidad de Documentaci6n Ambiental)
EEZ          Exclusive Economic Zone (Zona Econ6mica Exclusiva)
SIA          Environmental Impact Assessment (Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental)
gMa          Environmental Management Unit (Gerencia de Medio Ambiente)
ENAMI        National Mining Company (Empresa Nacional de Mineria)
STU          Environmental Training Unit (Unidad de Entrenamiento Ambiental)
GEF          Global Environmental Facility (Fondo Global para el Medio Ambiente)
GNP          Gross National Product (Producto Nacional Bruto)
GTZ          German Development Agency (Agencia Alemana para el Desarrollo)
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and _velopment (Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n Piblica Internacional)
iDB          Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IFOP         Fishery Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento Pesquero)
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n PCTblica Local)
MIDEPLAN     Planning and Cooperation Ministry (Ministerio de Planificaci6n y
Cooperaci6n)
NEIS         National Environmental Information System (Sistema Nacional de
Informacion sobre el Medio Ambiente)           I
NIB/NDF      Nordic Investment Bank/Nordic Development Fund (Banco N6rdico de
Desarrollo/Fondo N6rdico)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization (Organizaciones no Gubernamentales)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility (Fondo de Preparaci6n de Proyecto)
SEREMI       Secretariat of Regional Ministers (Secretaria Regional Ministerial)
SERNAP       National Fishery Service (Servicio Nacional de Pesca)
SSS          Sanitary Service Superintendency (Superintendencia de Servicios
Sanitarios)
STyA        ,,Iechnical and Administrative Secretariat of CONAMA (Secretaria
T6cnica y Administrativa de CONANA)
QNDP         United Nations Development Program (Programa de las Naciones Unidas
para el Desarrollo)
VAT          Value Added Tax (Inpuesto al Valor Agregado)
This document hm a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
Contents
ABRBVIATIONS  AND ACROtrMS  ............................. ...................
low AND PROJECT SUMERY                                    ..                              vi
BASIC DATA AND DEFINITIONS                                                              .  x
1.  RACKGROUND              ........................................................       1
A.  Introduction               1............................................... 
B.  Geographic and Economic Context .....           ...............                   2
2.  THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR ............................................                    3
A.  Overview ....................................................                     3
B.  Sectoral Issues ............................................                      3
C.  Government Sectoral Policy, Strategy and Objectives                ........       8
D.  Assistance Strategy for the Sector .........................                      9
3.  THE PROJECT .......................................................    12
A.  Project Objectives .........................................                     12
B.  Project Description and C.^mponents ..........................                   12
C.  Supporting Priority Sectors Engaged in Environmental
Protection and Natural Resource Activities .................                    16
4. PROJECT COST AND FINNCING PLAN                      . . .18
A.  Project Cost ......        ...................8......................            i
S.  Financing Plan ......        ..................8.....................            i
C.  Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project ......... .. ........                   19
D.  CONAMA's Budget for STyA .................         ..      ................      19
E.  Project Sustainability .....................................                     19
5.   ndPLEMENTiATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AUD)ITING, MONITORING
AND SUPERVISION ...................................................    19
A.  Status of Preparation  ..................         ..      .................      19
B.  Implementation Schedule .................         ..      .................      20
C.  Project Management ....................         ..     ...................       20
D.  Procurement .......       ..................       .......................       22
E. Disbursements and Special Accounts                       ..                       24
F.  Audits and Financial Management .....           ..............                   25
G.  Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .............                     25
6.  EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS .................          ..      ....................    26
A.  Expected Benefits ..........................................                     26
B.  Risks and Safeguards .......................................                     27
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................    28
ANNEXS AND CHARTS
Annex A:  CONAMA Decree #544  (October 9, 1991)  .........             .................. 30



- iv -
Contents
L3 I AD a2CHAS (Continued)                                          Plfe No.
Annex B: Environmental Sector Matrix of Strategy and Objectives
Policy ............................................................... 35
Annex C: Detailed Description of the Institutional Strengthening
Cooponent .36
Section C.O: Description of the Organizational and Management
Arrangements .36
Chart C.1:  CONAMA Organizational Structure .39
Chart C.2: Structure of STyA .40
Section C.1: Matrix of Objectives, Activities and Expected
outputs .41
Section C.2:  Environmental Assessment .46
Section C.3: Human Resources Development .52
Table C.3.1: Environmental and Natural Resources Manage-
ment Training Program: Number of Personnel to be
Trained by Level, 1993-97 .55
Table C.3.2: Environmental and Natural Resources Manage-
ment Training Program: Number of Personnel to be
Trained by.Year, 1993-97 .........................5............ 5
Table C.3.3: Environmental and Natural Resources Manage-
ment Training Program: Number of Personnel to be
Trained by Subcomponents and Sectoral Activities,
1993-97 ................................... 55
Section C.4: Environmental Information System .56
Annex D:  Priority Sectors Engaged in Environmental Activities .62
Section D.1: Management of Native Forests ........................... 62
Section D.2: Development of Industrial Pollution Control
Strategies .66
Annex E: Project Cost Tables                      ..                       72
Table E.1:  Project Cost by Component and Main Categories ..       .  72
Table E.2: Project Cost by Category and Years of Implemen-
tation ... 73
Table E.3: Project Cost by Component and Years of Implemen-
tation .... 74
Table E.4:  Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments ..      .  75
Annex F: Implementation Schedule .. .   76
Annex G: Quarterly Disbursement Profile .. .   77
Annex H: Project Indicators and Targets .. .   78
Annex I:  Working Papers and List of Documents in the Project Files ...   81
MP IBRD 24022



-V.
tPRacZ
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June/July
1992. The mission composed of Mv;urs. James Adams (Division Chief, LA4HR), Luis
Pisani (Miassion Leader, LA4HR), John Dixon (LATISN), and Jose Carvalho (LIQLA),
and Mexdames Anita Artaza (Operations Assistant, Consultant, LA4HR), and Mbhreen
Hosain (Environmental Specialist, Consultant, LA4HR). Messrs. Ping-Cheung Loh
and Jmes W. Adams are the managing Department Director (LA4) and Division Chief
(LA4HR), respectively, for this operation. The project preparation team included
Messrs. Philip Hazelton (LATEN) and John McKenna (LATAG), and Mesdames Katherine
Sierra (LACVP), Naoko Kamioka (LA4HR), Rosa Estrada (LA3I1), Lucia Villalobos
(LWAL) of the Bank; and Consultants to the Bank: Mesdames Anita Artaza and
Suzana Brito. Lead Advisor for this operation is Mr. John Dixon (LATEX). Peer
reviewers for the project are: Messrs. Robert Kaplan (LAlIA) and Jasdip Singh
(AF4NI). Mrs. Lien-Hiep Nguyen-Beabes (LA4HR) provided assistance in the
production of the report. This report was edited by Mr. William Mayville,
Consultant (LA4DR).



e vi -
REIODLZC OF CHILE
TVZRO3UMETAL INSITZTIONS D3V3LOPM3WS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SMOMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Chile
Beneficiary:          National Environmental Commission (CONAMA)
amount:               US$11.5 million, equivalent
Torms:                Repayment in 17 years, including a 3-year grace period,
with interest at the Bank's standard vai.i.able rate.
Project Objectives:   The central project objective is to assist the Govern-
ment in implementing sectoral policies and plans aimed at:
(a) establishing an institutional framework to manage environmental
protection and conservation of natural resources activities by:
(i) strengthening the technical and administrative structure, and
financial management capacity of the Technical Administrative
Secretariat (STyA) of CONAMA; (ii) putting into effect and updating the
legal regulatory framework for environment; (iii) incorporating
environmental assessments (EA) in public and private sector investment
projects; (iv) providing training in environmental and natural resources
management; (v) developing a nonformal education program; (vi) imple-
menting small environmental projects at the community level;
(vii) establishing an environmental information system; and
(viii) developing economic analysis of environmental issues; and
(b) strengthening priority sectors engaged in environmental activities
by: (i) improving the quality of management and conservation of Chile's
native forest; (ii) implementing several studies leading to a national
industrial anti-pollution strategy; (iii) supporting ongoing mining
sector initiatives to reduce the negative impact of mining activities on
the environment.
Project Description: The project, the first operation for environment in
Chile, would support the above objectives by financing components to:
(i) stablish the Institutional Framework to Manage Environmental
Protection and Conservation of Natural Resources (76 percent of total
project cost):  (a) providing about 890 staffmonths of technical
assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the STyA;
(b) hiring 87 professionals and 40 administrative personnel to develop
STyA at the central and regional levels, as well as environmental
ministerial units; (c) implementing a national training program for
about 6,550 participants in environmental and natural resources
management-:elated subjects; (d) implementing community based workshops
on environmental issues for about 11,700 people; (e) providing study
tours and fellowships abroad for about 90 professionals; (f) developing
I



- vii
and distributing about 6,550 sets of teaching materials and books;
(g) implementing 34 studies in sectoral environmental issues; ih) imple-
menting about 30 environmental improvement community based projects; aad
(i) providing office space, data processing, vehicles and communications
equipment, office supply and maintenance for the STyA headquarter and
regional offices.
(ii) Support Priority Sectors Engaged in Environmental Protection and
Conservation of Natural Resources (24 percent of project cost):
(a) providing about 260 staffmonths of technical assistance to:
(i) carry out a forest and natural vegetation cadastre, a rapid air and
hazardous waste pollution inventory in six regions, develop environ-
mental norms and standards relating to effluent discharge, solid waste
disposal and mine abandonment; (b) implementing a training program for
about 300 participants to:  (i) process, interpret, monitor and
supervise the native forest cadastre; (ii) use methodologies for rapid
air and hazardous waste pollution inventory; and (iii) apply and enforce
environmental norms and standards relating to effluent discharge, solid
waste disposal and mine abandonment; (c) implementing 12 studies to
support natural vegetation, water pollution, industrial pollution
policies, as well as the feasibility to recycle water for human
consumption; (d) providing office, data processing and communications
equipment, software and vehicles to implement the forest and natural
resources cadastre.
Expected Benefits:    The project would contribute to sustainable and
efficient economic development by strengthening the Goverment's
capability to manage and implement environmental and natural resources
policies, strategies and plans. Specifically, the project will:
(a) lay the foundation for future resource and environmental management
by clarifying the legal framework, institutionalizing the EA process in
the public and private sector, training professionals in environmental
and natural resources management, establishing a system for environ-
mental information and data, supporting institutional strengthening in
the center and the regions, and supporting the economic analysis of
selected environmental problems;
(b) strengthen the environmental management capacity of priority sectors
by reducing rapid degradation of renewable resources like forestry,
fisheries, soil and water. Potential returns from improved environ-
mental management are large and continuing; and
(c) provide health benefits to the citizen of Chile, especially in urban
areas and locations affected by industrial or mining pollutants. The
potential health benefits are substantial, as are the aesthetic benefits
of living in a cleaner, more hospitable environment. Although lifficult
to quantify in monetary terms, these benefits are large.
Risk and Safeguards:   The major risks to project implementation are:
(a) the STyA of CONAMA has been created recently and, therefore, might
experience resisteance from part of the public administration in its
efforts to become a leading agency to manage and implement fundamental
policy changes in environmental protection and conservation of natural
resources in Chile. To the extent possible, this risk has been
addressed by: i) concentrating project efforts in strengthening the
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     



STyA under the institutional development components; (ii) including a
uultisectoral operational-c'nsuitative committee at the level of the
STyA executive director; (iii) establishing a STyA legal status which
would give CONAMA the full capacity to execute its mandate and the
necessary administrative and managerial autonomy; and (iv) identifying
and hiring, under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), of key
professional consultants who will be part of the new STyA structure;
(b) the complexity of the project given the nature and scope of the
pro4ect which involves many subcomponents and the participation of
several agencies. This risk would be reduced by: (i) limiting project
intervention to improve the information base and developing sectoral
policies in only three sectors: mining, forestry and industry; and
(ii) establishing detailed operational agreements with sectoral
ministries and agencies involving project implementation. Furthermore,
comprohensive project preparation work has been carried out with the
assistance of local and foreign consultants financed by the PPF, United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and bilateral donors. In project
design, special care has been given to impiementation schedules,
specific subcomponent targets, subcomponent activities and outputs, and
task budgets. The Bank's supervision effort would be particularly
intensive during project startup. A joint Bank-STyA evaluation,
including the participation of qualified consultants, will be carried
out annually at the end of each project year; and
(c) the lack of regulatory Zramework to incorporate EA in the public and
private sector irnvestment projects and in establishing an environmental
information system. To minimize this risk, the EA component was
designed oni the basis of a diagnostic study of Chile's EA capacity,
carried out by STyA, and an operational agreement between sector
agencies outlining roles and responsibilities in the area of EA and
environmental information will be signed. Furthermore, the
environmental information system would be implemented gradually Cy
starting with three pilot regions.
Project Environmental Classification: C.



* ix *
gstimated Costs 1/                Local      Foreign     Total      Same Cost
PErolert: commoents
Isitutional Strencthenin@
Legal Regulatory Framework        0.7        0.1         0.8          3
Environmental Assessment          4.6        1.4         6.0        21
Human Resources Development       2.3        1.0         3.3         11
Environmental Info. System        0.5        0.5         1.0          4
Economic Analysis of Envi-        0.2        0.1         0.3          1
ronmental Issues
CONAMA STyA Reorganization        9.2        0.9        10.1         36
Priority S2ctor Activities          4.2        2.6         6.8         24
Baseline Cost                      21.7      6.7         ,28.4
Physical Contingencies              0.6        0.3         0.9
Price Contingencies                 2.8        Q.7       .3.
TOTAL PROJECT COST / l2.1                      7.7        32.8
Fimacincr Plan
Duties
Pro-ect Cost              and                   Percent of Cant
Sourge       Local   E2reiqn   lotal  Taxes    Total Cost   Project   12tal
Bank           6.2     5.3       11.S     0.0       11.S         39        35
Government    15.6     2.4       18.0     3.3       21.3          61       65
Toal.    ....     -----   .....      ..ILft .
Total        _21.8     7.7       22.3    -.3        32.8        100       LQ
Estimated IBRD Disburseent    F9   FX2Y94  FY95   EY96   FY97   FY9
Annual                          2.0/  3.3    2.5   1.8    1.2    0.7
Cumulative                      2.0    5.3    7.8   9.6   10.8   11.5
Economic Rate of Return         Not Applicable
A/  Totals may not add due to rounding.
k/ Includes local taxes amounting to US$3.3 million.
I/ Includes PPF repayment and project retroactive financing.



SASZC DATA THUTA
UURONHTArAL IDICATORS
Air Quality of Santiago (annual mean concentration of sulfur dioxide, micrograms
per cubic metor)
City center com ercial:   69 (19Y9-82), 85 (1983-86)
City center residential: 43 (1979-82), 46 (1983-86)
National Consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances:  1,100 metric tong a 0.09w
of world consumption (1990)
Water Quality of Rivers 'annual mean concentration of dissolved oxygen,
milligrams per liter)
Naipo River, el Manzano: 12.9 (1979-82), 13.2 (1983-86), 10.8 (1987-90)
Mapocho River, Los Almendros: 11.8 (1979-82), 12.1 (1983-86), 10.0 (1987-90)
Changes in Land Use:      Share of total land area 1989 (t)
(Average annual growth rate 1965-89 (%))
Agricultural      Permanent pasture       Forest & woodland         Other
6                    18                    12                   64
(0.5)                (1.2)                                      (-0.4)
Forest Area (thousands of square kilometers)              76.0    1980
Annual Deforestation (1981-85)                            0.50t
Protected Land Areas (thousands of square kilometers)   119.83
a 16% of total land area
ources:  World Develog=nt Renort, World Bank 1991; World Develoomgnt Rooort, World
Bank 1992 (draft); World Tles, World Bank 1989-90; Chile Country Profile,
Economic Intelligence Unit, 1991.
DZFINITXONS
Ozone Depleting Substances: Chemicals that accelerate the reduction of the ozone
layer when emitted. Chlorofluoro-carbons (CFCs) for
refrigerators and air conditioners as well as halons for
fire protection are considered to be major ozone
depleting substances.
Annual Deforestation:        Annual rate of the permanent conversion of forest land
to other uses, including pasture, shifting cultivation,
mechanized agriculture, and infrastructure development.
Protected Land Area:         Nationally protected areas of at least 1,000 hectares
that fall into one of five management categories:
scientific reserves and strict nature reserves; natural
parks of national and/or international significance;
monuments and natural landscapes with some unique
aspects; managed natural reserves and wildlife sanc-
tuaries; and protected landscapes and seascapes.



1 *ACK0kOU2W
I   ZNTRODUCTXON
1.01      Chile is ona of the economic success stories of the Latin America
region. The country has experiencod a period of long and deepening growth and an
impressive measure of economic stability. This has boen attributed to a
consistent, free-market economic strategy. Over the past two decades, tho
country not onJ.y exploited its natural resources, but also built a solid indus-
trial base. However, industrial pollution (from mining, smelting, fossil fuel
emissions, and paper procossing) remain largoly unregulated in Chile. The
transition from 17 years of military government to a popularly elected democratic
Government in 1990 represented an important political milestone and has resulted
in an increasingly open debate about the future of the country.
1.02      The new Government is follo'fing a two-pronged strategy for economic and
social development: on the economic side, there is a strong mphasis on
continued growth of the economy and enhancing Chile'; ability to compete in an
increasingly open world economy; on the social side, a concerted effort is being
made to address equity issues and to incorporate a larger share of the population
into the economic and social life of the country, especially those who are poor
and had not benefitted from recent growth.
1.03      Recognizing that sustainable development is meaningless if the natural
resource base on which so much depends is degraded and the physical environment
is polluted, the Government has made protection of the environmc.st and sensible
management of Chile's rich natural resources an important part of its program.
The Government realizes that a program of mineral and resource extraction,
manufacturing, and agricultural production that does not take environmental
factors into account is incomplete. Without taking into consideration environ-
mental factors, the gains obtained from rapid resource use and increased produc-
tion might prove to be overstated and unsustainable. At the same time, good
environmental policies can be in harmony with and support good economic policies.
1.04      Both the people and the Government have become acutely aware that part
of the cost of past growth is now being borne by the population and the country's
natural resources. In some cases, these costs are very visible and large, such
as that of air pollution in Santiago or contamination of aLrface water sources by
industrial and human waste. In other cases, the results of poor resource
management are less evident but potentially just as iMportant over the longer
time horizon. Mismanagement of fishery resources is one example; problems with
the management of soils and water for agricultural production is,another.
1.05      Proper and sustainable resource management requireo improved
information gathering, analysis of alternative policies, and changes in the way
resources are managed. At the same time, the Government realizes that over-
regulation or too much control over economic activities would be counter-
productive. The search is for an approach that combines the use of both ecor'mic
incentives and regulations to promote efficient and more sustainable economic
growth that explicitly takes environmental factors into consideration. Nuch
rAeeds to be done and the Government has taken initial steps to address the3e
issues. The Environmental Institutions Development Project is designed to help
the Government of Chile meet this need.



-2
B. Geographic and Economic Context
1.06      Chile's economy largely reflects its geography.  Formed by the forces
of plate tectonics, the country conforms to a long, narrow wedge between the
Pacific Ocean and the Andes. The Pacific Ocean and the upwelling of nutrient
rich waters has created its diverse and productive fishery resources. The forces
that created the Andes also resulted in rich mineral deposits that form another
key element of the economy. Climate has also been an important factor; excluding
the ard and hyper-arid regions in the north, much of the country is temperate.
This is reflected in ar important agricultural sector, especially fruits and
vegetables, and the large areas of forests found in the central and southern
part# of the country.
1.07      With some 750,000 km2 of territory, Chile is half as large as Spain  or
France and is only moderately populated with 13.2 million people. The country is
largely urban (86 percent of the total) and is concentrated in Santiago (over 4
million) and a string of cities along the coast. Population growth was only
about 1.7 percent per year during the past quarter century and is expected to
decline to 1.3 percent in the 1990s. In 2025, Chile's population will still be
less than 20 million people. With a life expectancy of 72 years and a literacy
rate of 93 percent, Chile ranks among the highest in Latin America on these
important social indicators. Chile's Gross National Product (GNP} per capita of
$2,129 in 1990 puts it in the middle of the IBRD's list of middle-income econo-
mies, but behind a number of other countries in the region.
1.08      GNP grew at 1.9 percent per year between 1965-80, and at an accelerated
rate of 3.2 percent from 1980-9h. The economy is dominated by the mining,
services, and industrial sectors. Agricultural production employs a small part
of the total labor force, but is an important source of export earnings, notably
from forestry, fishery, and horticultural products. The overwhelming importance
of mining, especially copper, is seen in Table 1.1.
Table 1A: CHILE - FOREIGN TRADE INDICATORS, 1986 and 1990
(millions of US dollars)
1986                    1990
Exportation (FOB)                                4,199                  8,580
Importation (FOB)                                3,099                  7,272
Trade Balance                                    1,100                  1,258
xcortatio2n
Copper                                           1,757                  3,795
Non-Copper                                         339                    952
Mining Total                                     2,096                  4,747
Agriculture & Fishery                              683                     981
industries                                       1,420                  2.842
Total Exports                                    4,199                  8,580
aSur: Central Bank of Chile.
1.09      Future growth will come from a combination of manufacturing, increased
agricultural production, and continued mining revenues. Since there remain large
areas of sparsely populated lands with rich natural resources, the proper manage-
ment of these resources will be crucial to the future development of high-value,



-3
commercial, agricultural sector production.  Mining activity is gite-specific,
but the environmental impact is enormous and far reaching. At the same time, the
highly urbanized population means that air and water pollution in cities ia fast
becoming a major environmental problem that needs urgent attention. These
concerns constitute the environmental challenge.
2. THE 3NVZROKNENTAL SXCTOR
A. Overview
2.01      The environmental sector is undergoing a process of raPid change and
maturation. Integrated environmental management is a new concept in Chile.
Basic environmental data are either lacking or collected sector by sector and not
compiled in an integrated manner of utility for planning and management. There
is no national EA legislation or requirement, and new projects are approved and
on occasion assessed and modified on an a = basis. Although the institutional
framework is weak at the central, regional, and provincial levels and environmen-
tal legislation is fragmented, there is a strong commitment on the part of the
Government to this process and to the proposed project. In his speech of May 21,
1992 to a joint session of Congress, President Aylwin reaffirmed the commitment
of the Government to the environment and che central role of the National
Environmental Commission (CONAMA) in helping to define the Government's agenda in
this regard.
2.02      The proposed project will assist CONAMA and its operational arm, the
STyA, to fulfill this important role in both developing broad policies and, even
more importantly, providing a valuable service function to line ministries and
regional units. At present, public responsibilities are spread among various
sectors and institutional hierarchies. As a result, management of environmental
issues are affected by redundancies and rivalries among the main environmental
protection and natural resource conservation agents. The STyA currently has
limited capacity. However, with the assistance of the proposed project, and
sustained political support from the Government, CONAMA can be expected to
develop into an effective organization for coordinating the national effort on
environmental policies and issues.
2.03      The proposed project is designed to work within the present institu-
tional framework. The various components are designed to strengthen CONAMA's key
institutional functions and appropriate units in the line ministries. There is
no intention of creating a "super agency" in CONAMA that will replace the work
and responsibilities of the various sectoral ministries. Rather CONAMA should
play a catalytic role in helping to define the broad policy framework an.d provide
selected service functions (such as environmental data collection and analysis
and EA training) to the rest of the public sector.
B. Sectoral Issues
Natural Resource Management Issues
2.04      The two most pressing natural resource management problems in Chile are
those associated with forestry and fisheries.  These industries expanded rapidly
(as did the horticulture industry) in response to a favorable macroeconomic
policy framework and strong external demand.



4-
2.05 Oorestry.  Forest industries underwent rapid expansion with widespread
conversion of native forests into plantations of exotic species like oinus
x=dJ&U and eucalyptus. As a result, the forestry sector (Annex D, Section D.1)
accounted for exports of about USS855 million in 1990, or about 10 percent of
total exports. Most forestry activity is in the central and southern parts of
the country. Actual and planned investments in this sector (largely in the
cellulose industry) totalled more than US$3 billion over the period 1987-93.
Over 100,000 people are mployed by the forestry sector in logging, processing,
and services. Most forestry revenues are generated by plantations of exotic
species, principally ainusg r"iat&, and only about 10 percent of the total volume
of timber harvested derives from native species.
2.06      In recent years, tension has emerged between a growing conservationist
movement in Chile, which would closely circumscribe the use of native forest
resources; potential private sector investors, who seek a minimum of government
intervention; and those in the public and private sectors who believe that the
resource base can be managed in an environmentally sound manner. Even though
native forests account for 85 percent of total forest area, their economic role
is currently small and their management weak. Native forests are divided into
three main categories: forest preserves (5 percent of the total), protected
forests (65 percent), and (commercially) productive forests (30 percent). More
information is needed on the location, condition, and uses of native forest
resources. Although plantation forestry has been both productive and profitable,
the ecosystem functions and potential economic value of native forests require
further analysis to plan a comprehensive national forest management program.
2.07      The 1990 Agricultural Sector Reportl/ recommended that the government
establish clear guidelines for native forest management and protection. Recom-
mendations included: (a) refining native forest management techniques, including
development of cost-effective ways to finance native forest management at least
until the practice can be shown to be technically and financially viable;
(b) strengthening government's role in implementing rational management activi-
ties in native and other forest-types. The Government should ensure satisfactory
budgeting of sector institutions which would allow them to carry out their
mandate. It was recomm1ended that the government implement a special levy on
subsector beneficiaries of public services in the areas of forestry development
and conservation; (c) improving monitoring of afforestation as needed to ensure
that laws are being followed, especially with respect to replacement of native
forests by plantations. Improved knowledge of the resource base is essential
since the last comprehensive forest survey was conducted in 1947. The Governmer.:
is moving ahead on all of these fronts. A draft Native Forest Law was presented
to Congress in April 1992. In the 1992 Budget Law, Congress approved the
institution of user fees, which will help strengthen the forestry service
(COAl). In addition, an institutional development program for CONAF is being
developed with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in the context of a
proponed watershed management program. The proposed Bank project would focus on
providing improved information and analytical tools for native forest management
to complement these efforts.
C/ hile - Sustainina Growth: An Aaricultural Sector Review (Green Cover Report
No. 8759-CH); June 29, 1990.



- ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ 5
2.08      Fisheries.  The Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) off the coast of Chile is
one of the most oxtensive and richest fishing areas in the world. Different
fisheries are found all along the coast. The industry has grown so rapidly over
the past two decade. that fisheries has now become a major component in the
economy. Chile has extensive pelagic and demersal species, as well as crusta-
ceans, mollusks, and agar resources. Of the 5.4 million tons of fishery products
caught in 1990, almost 90 percent were pelagic with demersals accounting for most
of the balance. Most fish products are exported. Exports of fish and fish
products in 1990 were about US$920 million, roughly comparable to exports of
forestry products. Chile has also made rapid advances in aquaculture, especially
in the production of salmon and trout. Chi , _ now the second largest aquacul-
ture producer of salmon in the world, prod sing 38,000 tons annually, mostly for
export.
2.09      The rapid growth of the fishery sector is reflected in heavy invest-
ments in fleet and processing equipment. In some areas, there is excess capacity
and the available stock is being placed under unsustainable pressure. Overfish-
ing can also result from periodic natural decreases in fish resources if the
fishing effort is not reduced commensurately. The new Fishery Law is designed to
bring some order to the fishing sector, but much more data and analyses are
needed on the extent of the stock and the maximum fishing effort that can be
sustained. The Nordic Investment Bank/Nordic Development Fund (NIB/NDF), as a
result of Bank and CONAM4A initiatives during preparation of the proposed project,
together are expected to finance a program to support fishery sector institutions
to meet the Fishery Law's mandate.
2.10      A major effort is needed to address the problems of seven important
industrial fisheries: iurel, anchovies, spanish sardines, merluza comt5.n, red
lobster, merlusa del our, and conario colorado. Information is needed on the
biological capacity of the fishery, the present level of fishing effort, and the
socioeconomic impact of that effort. Since fisheries are a classic open-access
resource, their proper management requires careful analysis of the biological
potential of the various fisheries and monitoring and regulation of the catch.
Improved Policies, Strategies, and Plans to Reduce High Levels of Air and Water
Pollution
2.11      Just as the forestry and fishery sectors suffer from the danger of
extraction at levels that exceed the natural sustainable replenishment capacity
of the resource, the natural environmental media of air and water, both surface
and underground, are being overstressed. The ability of the environment to
purify itself is exceeded in a number of areas and the resulting problems of
pollution are beginning to impose important health and productivity costs in both
urban and rural areas.
2.12      Part of the price of rapid economic growth and continued urbanization
is pollution of the air, water, and soils. Although these problems are found in
both urban and rural areas, they are particularly severe in many urban areas
where the main environmental pollution issues are contamination of water bodies
by domestic sewage and industrial wastes, the disposal of solid wastes, and air
pollution. Air pollution in Santiago results from a combination of transport
(diesel fuel) and industrial causes, which is made worse by dust blown from
unpaved streets and open land, and by Santiago's location in an enclosed valley.
The recent introduction of traneferable pollution permits for industries is being



complemented by a program to upgrade the bus fleot and pave urban streets in
Santiago, as well an limit accoes to congested downtown streets. Concepcion also
suffers from similar air quality problems.
2.13      Water pollution is a major issue in most areas of the country due to
lack of adequate treatmont for domestic and industrial waste. Although most
people have access to potable water, whon polluted water is used for irrigation,
it can lead to the transmittal of disease. Water quality in the Santiago region
is a problem, and with the recent cholera epidemic in Latin America, the issue of
water quality and especially its use for irrigation could have important health
consequences. Polluted rivers also contaminate coastal areas and, thus, affect
local fishery operations; they also foul areas used for tourism and recreation.
Other environmental pollution problems that are primarily urban involve the
disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes and excessive noise (acoustic pollution).
2.14      In addition to inadequate management of natural resources, pollution is
an important environmental problem in many rural areas. In some areas the
contamination of food, water, and soil by pesticides and other agricultural
chemicals is a major issue; in other areas there are severe problems of
indiscriminate dumping of industrial, mining, and other wastes in rural areas, as
well as associated pollution of air, water, and soils.
2.15      The mining sector is the most significant source of industrial
contaminatian in Chile, polluting both urban and rural environments. Pollution
is a major issue in state mining enterprises. Sulfur dioxide and arsenic
contamination at smelter sites (especially by the National Copper Corporation
(CODELCO) Chuquicamata and the National Mining Company's (ENAMI) Ventanas
facilities) is a serious issue for workers and nearby residents. Discharge of
tailings into the Rio Salado by CODELCO's Salvador copper mining installations
seriously damaged flora and fauna around the coastal areas of Chanaral.2/
Large-scale private sector mining investment, which is the source of most
sectoral growth, appears to be less problematic. Foreign investors have tended
to import technologies that meet environmental standards of the parent
organization's home country. The extent and impact of effluent generated by
small-scale mining, while unknown, is potentially important.
2.16      Fish processing industries in the north and south also pollute air--
mostly producing a foul smell rather than health-damaging contamination. In the
south, pulp mills in Constitucion and Concepcion/Talcahuano discharge dioxins and
heavy metals into estuaries. Petroleum refining and methanol production also
take place in Concepcion as well as in the Valparaiso area. Finally, little is
known about the extent of industrial/hazardous solid waste problems.
2.17 Concern about industrial pollution in Chile is relatively new. Analysis
and policy-making,have been hampered by lack of information as well as conflict-
ing institutional responsibilities. As might be expected, the initial debate and
definition of actions centered around the most visible sources of contamination--
V This problem resulted in the first environmental litigation in Chile. CODELCO
was ordered by the courts to cease discharge of tailings, and subsequently to
carry out required mitigative investments. The feasibility of cleaning up the
Chanaral area will be evaluated under the pilot environmental assessment program
supported by the project.
.



-7-
problems associated with the state-held mining concerns, and the well-known
problems of air pollution in Santiago. Solutions in the mining sector to date
have focused on eliminating existing sources of air contamination. Imple-
mentation is expected to provide a testing ground for development of national
pollution control strategies. While tackling "hot spots" first seemed a reason-
able response, this approach has only provided a limited forum for debate about
an overall strategy. Consensus on the objectives, policy instruments, and
institutional responsibilities has not yet emerged. Except for the Santiago
Region, where an important set of basic studies was carried out with the assis-
tance of the IDB, information on the sources and impact of industrial pollution
is poor. The proposed project would foster public discussion on these issues by
improving information on the nature and extent of pollution problems and by
developing industrial pollution policy papers and related action plans.
Institutional Framework and Legislation
2.18      Formal environmental institutions are a new concept in Chile.  The
Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment took place in 1972 and launched the
world environmental movement. Many countries around the world began to experi-
ment with various institutional responses to the challenge of environmental
management. Two environmental commissions were created in Chile in 1983 and
1984, respectively: the Environmental Legislation Commission (COLMA) and the
National Ecological Commission (CONADE). However, lacking the political support
and resources, these Commissions were unable to address the country's key
environmental issues.' At the sectoral level, several ministries share
responsibility for monitoring environmental matters in their respective sectors;
however, the approach tends to be much more production-oriented rather than
rescurce conserving.
2.19      To coordinate and implement environmental policies, strategies, and
action plans, the Government recently created CONAMA (Decree 240/June 5, 1990,
replaced by Decree 544/October 9, 1991), which is a small environmental agency
attached to the Ministry of National Resources.  To carry out its mandate, CONAMA
is integrated by:  (a) the Committee of Ministers3/ chaired by the Minister of
National Resources; (b) the Operational Committee constituted by all Ministers
with environmental competencies; (c) the Technical and Administrative Secretariat
(STyA) headed by an Executive Director appointed by the President of Chile; and
(d) the Regional and Provincial Environmental Commissions chaired by local
government authorities and comprised of the directors of the Ministerial Regional
Secretariat (SEREMI) and representatives of community and social organizations.
(Decree 544 of October 0, 1991, which describes the composition, functions, and
responsibilities of the different CONAMA units mentioned above appears in Annex
A). Furthermore, due to the high level of pollution in Santiago, the Government
created in 1990 a special comuission under the Ministry of Interior for the
decontamination of the Metropolitarn Region (Decree 349/1990). This commission is
part of CONAMA's network responsible for the metropolitan region.
J/ The Ministerial Committee is comprised of the Ministers of Economy, Mining,
Education, Public Works, Agriculture, Health, Housing, Transportation and
Telecommunications, the General Secretariat of the Presidency, and Planning
and Cooperation.



-8-
2.20      The lack of clear institutional responsibility for pollution control
aad capacity for policy-making, norms, monitoring, and enforcement is a serious
problem. Resp0nsibility is also diffused. Several institutions have overlapping
responsibilities for water and air pollution. These fnclude the Superintendencia
de Servicios Sanitarios (SSS), the Ministry of Health and its regional services,
the Servicio Agricola y Ganadero, the Ministry of P-iblic Works (through its
Direccion General de Aguas, and the Direcci6n del Territorio Maritimo), the
Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Mines, and the Ministry of Health. The
Regional Commissions' of CONAMA, the COREMAS, have been given responsibility for
coordination of monitoring and control activities along with oversight of the
local services of the Ministry of Health, SEREMI, and the municipal authorities.
However, these entities currently lack the capacity to carry out this task.
Whether this set-up will work in practice is not clear. The proposed project
provides limited assistance to the COREMAS pending the results of the policy and
institutional studies to be supported under the project. Finally, there is a
regulatory vacuum with respect to hazardous wastes.
2.21      Chile has extensive national and sectoral legislation, as well as
specific regulations governing the protection of the environment. At the
national level the most important piece of legislation is the Constitution of
1980 which includes in Article 19 the right to an environment free of contamina-
tion for everybody, with the Government assuming responsibility for natural
resources conservation. At the sectoral level the more relevant legislation
pertains to Agricultural Protection (Law 3557/1980); Automotive Vehicle Emission
Control (Decree 211/i991); Fisheries (Law 18892/1991); and the Regulation of S02,
Arsenic and Particulate Emissions (Decree 185/1991). More than 2,000 specific
regulations are contained in about 700 laws and decrees.4/ In an attempt to
bring some order to this very complex process, and as a demonstration of the
evolution and willingness to implement environmental-policies, the Government has
informed the Bank that the Basic Law for Sustainable Environmental Development
(BALSED), which includes regulations for Environmental Impact Assessment, was
sent to Congress on September 14, 1992. The development of this law will be
supported under the project. Once approved, this law will provide the broad
framework for improved environmental management.
C. Government Sectoral Policy, Strategy and Objectives
2.22      The Government's policy on the environment takes a strong position on
the importance of environmental concerns and the need both to ensure appropriate
management of natural resources and to minimize pollution, thereby helping to
ensure sustainable development. The state's responsibilities for conservation
and protection are acknowledged, and environmental matters are cited as a central
element of their development strategy for the country, as reconfirmed by the
President in his recent address to Congress. Environmental policies are to be
incorporated into development strategies at the national, sectoral, and regional
levels.
2.23      The strategy to implement the state's environmental policy is a
practical one. It recognizes the need to begin with basic steps attacking
priority areas first in a gradual manner. The need to develop the capability for
4L/ All of these legal regulations were compiled and published by CONAMA using
local consultants financed by the Bank's Project Preparation Facilities
(PPF).



-9-
improved environmental management is stressed, as is the importance of active
community and business participation in the process of policy design and imple-
mentation. Prevention of environmental problems is recognized as much more cost-
effective than ex-posz cures.  When developing policies, whenever feasible, the
bias will be toward market-oriented rather than command-and-control solutions.
Institutional strengthening, a central element in the proposed project, is also
recognized as a key component of the Government's strategy. Annex B shows the
environmental sector matrix of objectives, policy, and strategy.
2.24      To implement the Government's policy within the overall strategy just
outlined, COANAJ has established the following six priority objectives, in a
Strategic Plan to cover the next four years:
(a) strengthen institutions to develop, implement, and administer the state's
environmental policy;
(b) improve the management and protection of natural resources;
(c)reduce and control pollution of the air and water and the effects of solid
waste disposal;
'd) study proposed solutions for problems associated with growth of urban
areas;
Ce)prevent negative environmental effects from new investment projects by use
of environmental assessment techniques; and
(f)actively participate in international environmental management of global
concerns such as greenhouse gas emissions, protection of the ozone layer, and
preservation of biodiversity.
D. Assistance Strategy for the Sector
Bank Role and Strategy
2.25      Within Chile's free market economic policies, the Bank's strategy is
that sustainable and efficient economic development can only be assured if it is
based on sound environmental protection and natural resources management.  The
Dank is also concerned with the impact of environmental problems on people,
especially in urban areas affected by industrial and mining pollutants, as well
as the danger of. soil erosion and resource depletion due to the risk of
overextraction of forestry resources. Additionally, the Bank sees the need to
establish a clear set of rules and regulation as a positive influence on the
business climate in Chile, since investors generally desire a predictable climate
for environmental regulations. Finally, the Bank's involvement would facilitate
aid coordination in Chile, since a large number of multilateral and bilateral
assistance sources have delayed their projects until the appropriate institu-
tional set-up is in place.
2.26      The proposed project, the Bank's first in the environmental sector in
Chile, would help put in place a rational system of environmental protection and
natural resources management that addresses the issues of: (i) weak institu-
tional capacity to set national policies, strategies and plans; (ii) inadequate
natural resources management; and (iii) lack of policies and action plans to
reduce the high levels of air and water pollution which have prevented the
Government from undertaking major steps in the environmental sector. In
addressing these issues, the project provides an excellent opportunity for the
Bank to get involved from the beginning to support the establishment of the
institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural
resources management, as well as strengthening of Government's ability to define
and implement policies, strategies, and plAns in priority sectors. The



- 10 -
institutional set-up pursued by this operation will also reinforce a number of
ongoing and planned operations which have to tackle environmental problems at the
sectoral level. Finally, the proposed project is fully consistent with the
principles outlined in the Bank's World Develooment Report 1992. The report
emphasizes that better information, more effective institutions, and improved
local participation can help to remove constraints that hinder implementation of
cost-effective environmental policies, strategies, and plans.
The Role of Other Donors and Bilateral Agencies
2.27      Other bilateral and multilateral international agencies and donors are
supporting or planning to support environmental protection and natural resources
conservation in Chile. In the fisheries sector the Government is negotiating an
agreement with the Nordic Investment Bank and the Nordic Investment Fund to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Fisheries Service (SERNAP)
and the Fishery Development Institute (IFOP). The German Technical Cooperation
Agency (GTZ) and the Government have agreed on a work program that includes
specific actions to develop clean technologies, manage solid waste, energy
efficiency, soil conservation, and management of hydraulic resources. The IDB is
providing assistance to MIDEPLAN in the area of Environmental Assessment; their
proposed project "MKwiejo Integral de Cuencas Criticas" will include a component
for the analysis of CONAP institutional capacity which complements the forestry
component of the proposed project. The US Agency for International Development
(AID) has provided assistance to STyA to develop several studies and action plans
in the areas of biodiversity, preparation of the environmental and natural
resources strategy, identification of Chile's environmental problems, definition
of environmental quality control indicators, methodologies for EA, and solid
waste management. The STyA has organized training seminars on EA with the
technical and financial assistance of the Government of Spain. UNDP is the
executing agency for the PPF and is coordinating technical assistance in areas
specifically related to the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). The Bank
involvement would also include the administration of parallel financing of US$1.2
million under the provision of the Montreal Protocol to assist Chile in
eliminating ozone depleting substances. Table 2.1 summarizes the planned contri-
butions/loans from donors and bilateral agencies that are participating in the
implementation of environmental programs in Chile.
Lessons from Bank Experience
2.28      The most important lessons learned from previous Bank experience in the
environmental sector applicable to this operation are as follows:
(a)implementation has been hindered by project organization and management
arrangements, characterized by the many agencies and excessively centralized
decision-making;
(b)project implementation has been hampered by inadequate allocation of
counterpart funds;
(c)Non-Governmental Organization's (NGOs) and private organizations play an
important role in fostering accountability to the ultimate beneficiaries and
attaining project implementation objectives;
(d)inadequate data bases result in inefficient use of resources and duplica-
tion of actions to manage environmental and natural resource programs; and
(e)sound monitoring and evaluation systems are key factors for successful
project implementation by providing early warning about project implementation
problems.



- 11 -
2.29      These lessons have been incorporated into the design of the proposed
project.  Specifically, to minimize centralized decision-making, STyA of CONAMI
will play the role of policy, planning, and tGchnical coordination body leaving
the implementation of the majority of project subcomponents to decentralized
governmental and private agencies through operational agreements (paras. 3.06-
3.08 and 3.13-3.16).  As for allocation of csunternar tfunds, the Government
agreed that it would provide the resources required to implement the project,
including an adequate budget for STyA (para. 4.06). During negotiations, it was
confirmed that the Government expected to provide US$2 million for the first year
of project implementation.  To ensure NGO'g  od_rivate ortanizationgs role,
the new organization of STyA includes active participation of such representa-
tives in the consultative committee (para. 3.03) as well as in the implementation
of the legal regulatory framework, training, environmental education, environ-
mental assessment, small enviromental projects, an environmental information
system, and project studies subcomponents (paras. 3.04-3.12). With r-9pect to
data bases the project would provide for the design of an environmental
information system to facilitate the decision-making both at the central and
regional levels (para. 3.10). Finally, to strengthen proiect monitoring and
evaluation, the project includes a detailed set of project performance indicators
and targets by component (Annex H, expected outputs (Annex C, Section C.l), and
annual and mid-term reviews of project implementation that include the partici-
pation of independenit consultants. These reviews will be focused on:
(a) attainment of project objectives; (b) implementation of CONAMA working plans;
(c) progress in meeting schedules and targets; and (d) project performance
indicators (paras. 5.14-5.15).
Table 2.1: CHILE - SUMMARY OF EXPECTED CONTRIBUTION BY DONORS, AND BILATERAL
AGENCIES' PARTICIPATION TO IMPLEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS IN CHILE
(USS mIllIon)
____________________________          DONORS  AND  BILATERAL  AGENCIES
NORDIC                    OF  MONTREAL
PROGRAMS        BANK  GTZ   IDB   AID  S'JAIN  PROTOCOL  IBRD  TOTAL
Institutional Strengthening  0.04         0.18  0.05           3.82  4.09
Envfronmentat Assessment  -         0.30  0.11                I 2.55  2.96
Energy Conservation           0.36        _                     __ -  0.36
Soil Conservation            0.04         0.03                          0.07
Blodiversity                            I 0.05 _       _              0.05
Ozone Deptetion         -     -                         1.20    -    1.20
Industry Pollution          1.44 ="=                      _   1.45  2.89
Agrfculture & Forestry             86.20                       3.53  89.73
Mining __=_=_=_==__  0.15  0.15
Fishery                7.00   -                                       7.00
Solid Uaste Management       0.14  1.00                               1.14



-12
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The main project objectives are to assist the Government in implement-
ing sectoral policies, strategies, and plans aimed at: (a) establishing an
institutional framework to manage environmental protection and conservation of
natural resources; and (b) strengthening Government's ability to evaluate and
manage priority environmental problems in targeted sectors.
B. Project Description and Components
Eutablishing the Institutional Framewoik
3.02      The project would support the establishment of the institutional frame-
work through: (a) strengthening the technical and administrative structure, and
financial management capacity of the STyA; (b) establishing and updazing the
legal regulatory framework for environment; (c) developing EA procedures and
guidelines for public and private sector investment projects; (d) providing
training in environmental and natural resource management; (e) developing a
nonformal education program; (f) implementing small environmental projects at the
community level; (g) establishing an environmental information system; and
(h) developing capacity for economic analysis of environmental issues.
3.03      Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of STyA (US$11.7 million).
This component will help create the institutional capacity to develop and
implement environmental policies, strategies, and plans by: (a) providing STyA
with full capacity to execute its mandate as well as administrative and
managerial autonomy; (b) establishing a new organizational structure and
functions for STyA, which includes technical advisory committees integrated with
the private sector and NGOs; (c) reinforcing STyA's technical and administrative
staff; and (d) providing equipment and office space. For this component, the
project would finance:  (a) about 87 professionals, of which 36 are assigned to
regional activities, and 30 administrative and clerical personnel, of which 12
belong to regional activities; (b) specialized office equipment and vehicles,
furniture, and materials; (c) transportation and per diem to monitor and
supervise regional activities; (d) about 800 square meters of leased office
space; and (e) a fund for specific studies for feasibility and preparation of
sectoral environmental projects. CONAMA's organizational structure appears in
Annex C, Chart C.I. STyA's proposed organizational chart is shown in Annex C,
Chart C.2. CONAMA's matrix of objectives, activities and expected results are
given in Annex C, Section C.1. In order to facilitate project implementation,
the Ministry of National Resources has issued a Resolution granting STyA the
necessary managerial and administrative autonomy. In addition, the Ministries of
National Resources, the Presidency, and Finance, and the Secretary of STyA signed
a Protocol for the purpose of ensuring the enforceability of z._ -h Resolution.
The Bank has obtained assurances that the Government by the end of each year
would furnish to the Bank for review the STyA annual work plan for the next
succeeding year. The final version of the terms of reference (TORs) for
implementation of this subcomponent for local and foreign consultants were
submitted to the Bank prior to Negotiations.
3.04      Establishing and Updating the Legal Regulatory Framework (US$0.9
million). This component will help STyA put into effect and update the legal
regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural resources manage-
ment by: (a) assisting in the preparation and processing of the BALSED;



- 13 -
(b) establishing a legal environmental information system; (c) providing training
in environmental law; and (d) improving Chile's capacity to participate in
international environmental initiatives. During project preparation, the Bank,
through the PPF, financed an inventory of Chile's legislation in the environ-
mental sector, as well as consultant services to prepare the first draft of the
BALSED. Assistance was also provided through the Canadian Environmental Fund for
the preparation of the Environmental Impact Assessment (BIA) aspects of this law.
The project would finance: (a) two local technical staff for about 120 staff-
months; (b) about 190 staffmonthu of consultants services; (c) publications
containing environmental laws; and (d) 18 seminars on environmental and natural
resource legislation for about 570 lawyers and other concerned personnel in the
public and private sector. During appraisal, the Government furnished to the
Bank for technical comments the text of the BALSED which was presented to the
Chilean Congress on September 14, 1992 (para. 2.21). The Government has provided
assurance that the Bank will be continuously informed about the processing of
this Law in Congress, and will request the Bank's comments on any proposed change
to the draft. The final version of the TORs in connection with the activities
under the component for the local and Loreign consultants were submitted by the
Government to the Bank prior to Negotiations.
3.05      Incorporating EA in Public and Private Sector Investment Projects
(US$6.9 million). This component would strengthen the Government's capacity to
control harmful environmental effects resulting from public and private sector
investments in all sectors through the introduction of EA concepts and appropri-
ate methodologies. Consistent with Chile's efforts to decentralize responsibili-
ty for the preparation and application of EA procedures to each sectoral agency,
the timely transfer of EA concepts and capacity will be achieved through:
(a) establishing the EA Unit within the STyA organization (Annex C, Chart C.2)
responsible for preparing EA procedures nationally in anticipation of the passage
of the National Legislation to regulate EA; (b) strengthening the environmental
monitoring and assessment capacity of 10 ministerial units and 13 regional
environmental offices so they can effectively carry out their mandate to review
all public and private sector investment projects included in the national and
regional development plans for socioeconomic impact and environmental feasibili-
ty; (c) developing an EA consciousness-raising program for staff within all
Government departments and in the private sactors; (d) implementing a specialized
training program for sector staff under the project training component;
(e) incorporating EA and audit concepts and procedures in the curricula of
environmental studies at the university level; (f) preparing national standards
and guidelines for EA and audit in all sectors; and (g) carrying out selected EAs
in nine subsectors, with emphasis on reversing environmentally damaging practices
associated with small- and medium-sized mines.
3.06      For implementation of this component, the project provides for:
(a) about 16 professionals for STyA, The Planning and Cooperation Ministry
(MIDEPLAN), ministerial units, and regional environmental offices; (b) about 480
staffmonths of consultant services; (c) publication and distribution of 950
regulatory guidelines on EA; (d) specific materials (videos, printed material,
brochures and books) to increase basic awareness about the importance of the EA;
(e) special equipment (computers, printers, and communications) and materials for
EA; (f) 65 courses, seminars, and workshops on EA for about 950 participants and
2 national EA conferences (these courses and seminars will be contracted and
impiemented by universities and private training organizations); (g) scholarships
abroad for about 10 professionals; and (h) 24 pilot studies for EA in key areas
and selected regions. (Detailed descriptions and organizational and implementa-
tion arrangements for the EA project subcomponent are given in Annex C, Section



. 14-
C.2.) To carry out this component, the STyA prepared a well-designed EA program
on the basis of a diagnostic Study of Chile's EA capacity. Thio study was
carried out with the assistance of a Canadian consultant financed by the Canadian
Environmental Trust Fund. The final version of the TORs for the local and
foreign consultants were presented prior to Negotiations. The final version of
the agreement to be signed by CONANA with the five Ministries outlining roles and
responsibilities war reviewed at Negotiations and has been signed.
3.07      Implementing a Training Prograe in Znvironmental Protection and Natural
Resources xanagment5/ (US$2.8 million).  The main objective of this sub-
component is to strengthen the performance capabilities of publlc sector person-
nel involved in managing environmental activities by: (a) establishing the
Environmental Traininig Unit (BTU) within CONAMA; (b) implementIng a 1992/93 pilot
training program in environmental management for about 600 part:%cipants;
(c) executing an inventory of the programs that are being offered and educational
institutions that have the potential to organize training programs in environmen-
tal and natural resources management; (d) implementing a national 1993-97
training program in environmental and natural resource management for about 3,000
participants; and (e) providing assistance to training units to be implemented in
sectoral ministries and governmental agencies. The project would finance:
(a) three local technical staff for about 170 staffmonths; (b) about 42 staff-
months of consultant services; (c) production and distribution of educational
materials (videos, printed material, brochures, and books); (d) teaching
equipment and materials; (e) structuring and coordinating 47 courses, 47 semi-
nars, 21 workshops on environmental and natural resources management to be
implemented by universities and private training organizations; (g) study visits
and fellowships abroad for about 7S professionals; (h) per diem, transportation
and fees for about 20 instructors and 1,200 participants; and (i) implementing
three studies in training needs assessment, evaluation of the impact of the
training programs, and occupational analysis to define the content of the
training programs. (Detailed descriptions and organizational and implementation
arrangements of the training program are given in Annex C, Section C.3, Tables
C.3.1 to C.3.3.) The final version of the TORe for the local and foreign
consultants were submitted by STyA prior to Negotiations. The final version of
the letter of invitation to universities and private training organizations for
implementation of the training component was presented prior to Negotiations.
3.08      Promoting Eavironmental Education (US$0.9 million).  This subcomponent
would support environmental education for the general public outside the formal
education system. It would include: (a) creation of an Environmental Documenta-
tion Unit (EDU); (b) development of methodologies, teaching, and audio-visual
material; and (c) implementation of training courses for 40 instructors, environ-
mental knowledge improvement courses for about 1,300 professionals, and training-
sensitivity workshops for about 11,700 comnunity leaders to increase public
cons:jiousness-raising about environmental issues. The project would finance:
Ca) three local technical staff for about 170 staffmonths; (b) about 120 staff-
months of consultant services; (c) specific educational materials (six videos,
5/ Specific training in legal aspects, economic analysis, mining, industry,
environment information system, forestry, and environmental assessment is
included in each subcomponent.



printed material, brochures, and books); (d) teaching equipment and mate,tale;
(e) about 33 courses of 60-hour duration for local instructors; (f) about 300
workshops of 8-hou.- duracion on environmental education, to be implemented by
XG0s; (g) per diem, transportation, and fees for about 1,320 participants and
instructors; and (h) meals gor about 11,700 participants. (Detailed descriptions
and organixational and implementation arrangements of the onvironmental education
program are given in Annex C, Section C.3) During the appraisal mission, STyA
submitted a wel'%-prepared revised curriculum for a nonformal education program.
The final version of the TORs for the local and foreign consultants were submit-
ted by STyA prior to Negotiations. The final version of the letter of invitation
to fcrmal and nonformal education entities and NGO's officials for implementation
of the environmental education component was presented by the STyA prior to
Negotiations.
3.09      Supporting Small Environmental Projects at the Community Level (US$0.2
million). With this subcomponent, the Government proposes to foster local
initiatives and encourage community participation in solving targeted environ-
mental problems at the community level. This subcomponent will provide grant
funds for about 30 locally-designed projects to: (a) foster community con-
sciousness-raising about environmental issues; (b) protect green areas, forest,
wildl.fe, and endangered species; (c) improve recreational areas; (d) improve
soil conservation; (e) manage and recycle solid waste; (f) save water; (g) reduce
air pollution and contamination; and (h) recuperate abandoned areas. Resources
for such projects will be made available on a competitive basis and assessed on
the relative merit of such projects. It is estimated that the average cost of
the projects would be US$4,000, and the total cost of any pro3ect would not
exceed US$6,000. The Government intends to implement this subcomponent during
the first two years of the project, evaluate the results, and, if justified,
expand its application using local funds or grants provided by bilateral donors.
As agreed during the preappraisal mission, the Government has sent to the Bank
'or comments the draft guidelines and procedures including project:  (a) presen-
tation and processing; (b) selection, evaluation criteria, and ranking;
(c) disbursement of funds; and (d) monitoring and evaluation. it is expected
that several NXOOs will provide technical assistance to communities for project
design, monitoring, and implementation.
3.10     EZtablishing a National Environmental information System (NEIS) (US$1.2
million). The creation of NEIS within CONNAA would promote public environmental
awareness and contribute to improved environmental strategic decision-making at
the national level. This NUIS would: (a) define a strategy for developing a
basic environmental information system to establish the technical and financial
methods, as well as enabling Chile to employ later integrated geographical
information systems for the management of environmental data; (b) establish basic
institutional capacity for environmental data collection at both the national and
regional levels; Ic) prioritize and consolidate the development of environmental
data bases in various key sectoral institutions; (d) strengthen institutional
capacity in those key productive sectors that are based on the exploitation of
uatural resources to improve management of relevant sectoral information;
{e) reinforce or create institutional capacity for the management of air, water
and soil pollution data and improve solid waste management; (f) establish
linkages to insure coordination between the basic environmental information
system and various relevant sectoral data bases; and (g) incorporate specialized
software packages to improve the generation, extraction, processing, and distri-
bution of environmental data to provide data on the status of the environment.



- 16 -
3.11      The environmental information system design would be implemented and
tested under a one-year pilot program in three distinct regions to determine
whether it actually improves the flow of environmental data for decision-making.
The pilot program would be implemented in: (a) Region V, Valparaiso;. (b) Region
VIII, Concepcion; and (c) Region X, Puerto Montt. An evaluation of the environ-
mental information system design and the pilot program would be carried out to
determine final program priorities for the various phases of system implementa-
tion into other regiono, and to identify equipment requiremen..s in each region.
3.12      The project would finance:  (a) three technical staff; (b) about 35
staffmonths of consultants services for the design of an environmental informa-
tion system to improve the flow of environmental data for decision-making to
CONAMA; and (c) a basic workstation for the proposed environmental information
system, i.e., a PC with a minimum XT-386 capacity and a facsimile machine
initially to improve interregional communications between CONAMA and the pilot
program offices. (Detailed descriptions and organizational and implementation
arrangements for the NEIS are given in Annex C, Section C.4.) The final version
of the TORs for the design of environmental information system were received by
the Bank prior to Negotiations.
3.13      Developing Capacity for Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues
(US$0.3 million). The commitment of the Government to strengthen and improve
environmental management in Chile will be confronted with concerns on the
potential costs of .ese actions and their effect on Chile's competitive position
abroad. To enable the Government to assess the full economic impact of proposed
measures, the project is supporting the application of the principles of economic
analysis to selected environmental problems. This will allow decisions to be
taken with a fuller knowledge of the benefits and costs of proposed actions. To
mees this need, three sets of activities will be supported by the project:
First, initiate a set of economic studies of selected environmental issues that
will be identified by various Government units and dezigued to feed directly into
the process of policy formulation. This activity will be overseen by a small
interministerial committee to ensure maximum policy relevance of the studies.
Second, establish a unit in the Central Bank to intro.tce the concept of natural
resource accounting and integrate this approach into the standard system of
national accounts.  Third, carry out a series of traini- programs and workshops
to introduce environmental economic theory and applicati >. to economists and
resource managers in government entities, universities, tutd research institu-
tions.  The project would finance:  (a) three technical st:ff; (b) about 35
staffmonths of consultants services; (c) training for abot; 120 professionals;
(d) two fellowships abroad; and (e) ahout eight studies ir. economic analysis of
environmental issues. During appraisal, the Bank reviewed the final version of
the TORs of the first three economic studies, the content of the training
programs and workshops, and the draft of the agreement to be signed with the
Central Bank. The appointment of the interministerial committee and the final
version of the letter of invitation to universities and research institutions to
implement the corresponding studies and training programs was presented by the
STyA prior to Negotiations. The signing of the operational agreement by CONANM
with the Central Bank is a condition for disbursements of funds for this sub-
component.
C. Supporting Priority Sectors Engaged in Environmental Protection and Natural
Resource Activities
3.14      Forostry Sector (US$5.4 million).  This subcomponent would support
CONAF in: (a) carrying out a forest and zatural vegetation cadastre; (b) imple-



- 17 -
menting systems that will be used in monitoring and supervision of native forest
activities; and (c) carrying out an institutional study to update CONAN's
organization. The forest cadastre would be national in scope, and would result
in the development of land-use maps that will locate and classify forests in
terms of their species mix and relative productive potential; determine the
degree of forest modification or degradation; identify conservation districts;
and serve as the basis for development of a forest data base. Following
completion of the cadastre, a permanent system for updating b-y CONAF would be
developed. This system would enable CONAF to process and interpret satellite
imagery as needed to support policy studies and for approval and supervision of
forest management plans. For the cadastre, the loan would finance the costs of
consultant contracts and certain supervision coots (photo interpretation,
vehicles, and about 9 staffmonthe of technical assistance). To develop the
monitoring system, the loan would finance 184 staffmonths of consultants services
to design and implement the system, and procurement of equipment, software, base
satellite images; and training for about 70 professionals. This component would
be executed by CONAF in cooperation with STyA. (A detailed description of the
issues of management of native forest and project subcomponent is given in Annex
D, Section D.1.) The agreement between  ONAF and CONAMA has been signed.
Complementary activities will be carried out under other project subccmponents.
These include development of EA guidelines (paras. 3.05-3.06).
3.15      Definition of an Industrial Anti-Pollution Stratogy (US$2 million).
This subcomponent would seek to improve the information base through carrying out
rapid air and hazardous waste pollution inwcntories in six regions. Regional
Environmental Commission (CORENAS) staff would be trained in the use of methodo-
logies for carrying out the inventories to be developed by the consultants.
Complementary to this will be a classification of hazardous waste on the basis of
key characteristics. It would also support three policy studies: (a) the
development of a water pollution policy option paper, which would give special
emphasis to assessing alternative policy instruments and institutional arrange-
ments for setting standards, monitoring, and control; (b) preparation of an
overarching industrial pollution policy paper, which would draw together and
evaluate the initiatives being taken in the area of air pollution to date; and
(c) development of norms for industrial solid waste disposal. The policy papers
would include action plans to implement key recommendations. The results of the
water pollution option paper would define options for hazardous waste management.
At appraisal, the final list of the six regions to be included in the rapid air
quality emission inventory was agreed. The Government will furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1995 the action plans based on the results of the pollution
policy papers; the Government would carry out these plans after Bank
review/approval. An allocation has been included in the project costs (US$0.1
million) to support initial actions, to be agreed with the Bank, that may flow
from these studies. The loan would finance the costs of: (a) loca. consultant
services for about 15 staffmonths of consultants services; (b) training for about
200 professionals; (c) contracting of two professionals; (d) eight studies; and
(e) dissemination workshops, including the cost of outside reviewers. This
component would be executed by the Ministry of Economy, in cooperation with the
STyA, and under the guidance of a Subcommission of COMNAM set up for that
purpose. Specific details on the industrial pollution control issues, policies,
strategies, and project subcomponent objectives are given in Annex D, Section
D.2. The final version of the agreement between the Ministry of Sconomy and
CONAMA outlining roles and responsibilities has been signed.



- 18-
3.16      Support to Zmsediate ProgrSM of Action In the Xining Sector (US$0.5
million). Under this subcomponent, the Environmental Unit of the Ministry of
mines would receive technical assistance for the development of environmental
norms and standards related to the mining industry. These include norms relating
to effluent discharge, solid waste disposal, and mine ahandonment. A review and
update of all relevant legislation will also be carried out. Xn addition,
technical/economic studies to investigate the feasibility of using water from the
Pampa Austral mine for use in the town of Chanaral and/or irrigation purposes
will be prepared. Complementary activities under other project components
include: (a) an EA of small mining; (b) an EA of the impact of tailing discharge
on the bay and town of Chanaral; and (c) specialized training for about 30 sector
staff. The project would finance the cost of: (a) consultants for 62 staff-
months; (b) one fellowship abroad; and (c) 3 studies. The immediate program of
action in the mining sector is given in Annex D, Section D.2, paras. 19-22. By
December 31, 1994, the Government will present to the Bank the proposed norms and
standards for the mining sector; these would be implemented after Bank review/
approval. The agreement between the Ministry of Mines and CONAMA outlining roles
and responsibilities has been signed.
4. PROJXCT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Cost
4.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$32.8 million,
including taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component estimated at US$7.7
million, or 24 percent of total project cost. The base cost amounts to US$28.4
million for prices estimated in January 1992. Project costs by component are
summarized in Table D.I. Detailed project cost tables are shown in Annex B.
4.02      Contingency Allowance.  Total contingencies of US$4.4 million represent
15 percent of base costs. Physical contingencies (US$0.9 million), about
3 percent of total base costs, assume: (a) no physical contingencies for local
salaries, vehicles, and specialized equipment; (b) 5 percent for consulcant
services, equipment for an informatic system, and operating costs; and
(c) 10 percent for goods and materials. Price contingencies (US$3.5 million),
about 12 percent of base costs, assume: (a) a projected local inflation rate of
15.1 percent for 1992, 17.7 percent for 1993, and 17.9 percent for 1994 and
thereafter; (b) a projected price increase for foreign costs estimated in US
dollars at 2.8 percent for 1992, 3.9 percent for 1993 and 1994, and 3.8 percent
for 1995 and thereafter; and (c) the projected average exchange rate of the
Chilean peso for each calendar year.
4.03      TX*es and Duties.  Locally procured goods are subject to a value-added
tax (VAT) of 18 percent. Imported goods such as vehicles and computers are
subject to an 11 percent customs tax and an 18 percent VAT. Total cost of the
project includes approximately US$3.3 million of local taxes.
B. F.nancing Plan
4.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$11.5 million would finance around 39
percent of total project cost net of taxes and duties. It would cover about 69
percent of foreign exchange expenditures (US$5.3 million), and about 28 percent
of the estimated local costs (US$6.2 million) net of taxes and duties. The



- 19 -
Government of Chile would finance US$21.3 million, which represents approximately
65 percent of the total project cost, including taxes and duties. Table 4.2
shows the project financing plan, with a breakdown by project category.
C. Recurrent Coots Arising from the Project
4.05      The total amount needed to finance recurrent coats arising from the
project account for 36 percent of total cost. Categories requiring recurrent
financing total about US$11.8 million. Recurrent costs stabilize at an annual
rate of approximately US$3 million during the last two years of the project. The
main project categories that will continue beyond its completion are: (a) local
salaries with an annual cost of about US$2.3 million for a payroll of around 90
staff including the STyA executive secretcry and all higher level and support
staff of this office and the regional offices; and (b) operating costs estimated
at US$0.6 million per annum, which include office rentals, services, materials,
and fares and subsistence to provide for the continuous interaction between the
regional offices and STyA, as well as staff participation in some international
events (Table D.3). The eovernment of Chile is expected to finance in its
entirety the recurrent expenditures originated by the Project.
D. CONAMAWs Budget for STyA
4.06      Since 1991, the resources assigned by the Ministry of Finance to STyA
have been channelled through the Ministry of National Resources where STyA is
located.  These resources are included in the overall budgetary allocation of the
Ministry of National Resources, but are earmarked exclusively for STyA's use.
Sven though these funds are managed by the Ministry in compliance with its
administrative and accounting procedures, they represent a totally independent
budget. STyA's total expenses in 1991 amounted to about US$0.2 million and the
allocation for 1992 is around US$0.3 million. The projected budgetary require-
ments of the STyA for the 1993-97 period, the years of project implementation,
are described in the proposed project and reach an estimated yearly total cost of
about US$3 million. It is expected that for the first few years following
project completion, the STyA annual budget should fluctuate around that same
total. The Bank was informed by the Government that it expects to provide US$2
million for the first year of project implementation.
S.  Project Sustalnc,'Uity
4.07      In principle, the Ministry of Finance has agreed to finance the
totality of the recurrent salary expenditures and recurrent operating costs which
originate from the project. The Government of Chile is prepared to put forward
this amount as counterpart funds during the five years of project implementation.
This commitment ensures the willingness and capacity of the Government to sustain
STyA expenditures and activities in future years, once the proposed project is
completed.
5.  3MPLNMENTATION, PROCcuNIN, D?SBURS3KJNT, AUDITING, MONITORING
AND SUPRV -XON
A. Status of Preparation
5.01      Project preparation was financed by the Government and the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in collaboration with UMWDP and a grant from
the Canadian Environmental Trust Fund. Project objectives, components, and
subcomponents are consistent with the sectoral policies, strategies and objec-



20 -
tives discussed wlth the Bank (described in Annex B). The project was prepared
by the STyA of CONAMA. The component to support priority sectors engaged in
eavLronmental protection and conservation of natural ppsources was prepared in
close collaboration with the Ministries of Mining, Agriculture and Economy who
will be in charge of lmplementing their respective subcomponents under agreement
with CONAMA. Since CONAMA's Executive Director reports directly and on an
ongoing basis to CONAMk's Board of Directors, the Ministry of National Resources
and Presidency, the project enjoys full support and commitment. During the
preparation process, the Government demonstrated its willingness to implement
environmental policies, strategies, and plans by promulgating the new Fishery Law
and the Industrial Emission Control Decree.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.02      The orooosed yroject would be implemented over a period of approxi-
mately five years and is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997, and
closed by June 30, 1998. Selected project activities began immediately after
appraisal (June 1992). Retroactive financing of up to US$0.6 million would be
granted for expenditures incurred after August 1, 1992. Given that STyA is just
being developed, a work program that combines high-impact and low-risk
subcomponents during the first two years of the project has been agreed. A
detailed implementation schedule is shown in Annex F.
C. Project Management
5.03      STyA of CONAMk would be the project executive agency.  The broad
framework within which CONAMA operates is described above. Its current structure
would be adjusted in accordance with the institutional development required by an
organixation that will assume the central role of environmental policy, planning,
and coordination at the national level (para. 3.03, and Annex C, Chart C.2).
While this would facilitate the proper execution of the project, it would also
establish the structure within CONAMA necessary to perform its environmental
management and natural resources protection function beyond the period of the
project. STyA would be in charge of the overall coordination and monitoring of
the project, and directly execute the legal regulatory framework, EA, training
and dissemination, environmental information system, and institutional
strengthening subcomponents. For the EA subcomponents, CONAMA has signed an
operational agreement outlining roles and responsibilities with five Ministries
(para. 3.06). For the subcomponent on economic analysis of environmental issues,
CONAMA would establish an interministerial advisory committee and sign
operational agreements with the Central Bank, universities, and designated
research institutions (para. 3.13). For the subcomponent on policy and
institutional strengthening of forestry, mining, and industrial sectors, CONAMA
has signed operational agreements with CONAF and the Ministries of Mining and
Economy, respectLvely (paras. 3.14-3.16).



- 21. -
Tab ,leL4m.:   CHILE  - S.ORY COST TABLE  (USS  ' 000)
Institutional strengthenfng           Local    Foreign    Total   X of Base
.... ...........,u, I. a' t.........m&''or' ................. ......... .............. ......... ..........................._
Legal Regulatory Framework
Fees and SalarIes                           430.7      91.7    522.4         1.8
Training                                    231.6       0.0    231.6         0.8
Operating Costs                               8.0       0.0       8.0        0.0
Subtotal                                      670.3      91.7     762.0        2.7
Environmentat Assessment
Fees and Saelaries                        1,802.6     S22.1  2,324.7        8.2
Studies                                   1,570.0      10.6   1,580.6        S.6
Training                                    891.4     820.0   1,711.4        6.0
Equipment, Goods and Materials                0.0      39.0      39.0        0.1
Operating Costs                             329.3       0.0     329.3        1.2
Subtotal                                    4,593.3   1,391.7  5,985.0        21.1
Human Resources Development
Fees and Salaries                           337.9      49.6    387.5         1.4
Studies                                     123.4       0.0    123.4         0.4
Training                                  1,405.2    846.0  2,251.2          7.9
Equipment, Goods and Materials               11.6      70.4      82.0        0.3
Operating Costs                             257.0       0.0      257.0       0.9
Commfnity Pilot Projects                    200.0       0.0    200.0         0.7
Subtotal                                    2,335.1     966.0  3,301.1        11.6
Environmental tnformation System
Fees and Salaries                           117.2      27.0      144.2       0.5
Studies                                      50.0       0.0      50.0        0.2
Training                                     53.2       0.0      53.2        0.2
Equipment, Goods and Materials              150.0    500.0    650.0          2.3
Operating Costs.                            145.0       0.0      145.0       0.5
Subtotal                                      515.4     527.0   1,042.4        3.7
Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues
Fees and Salaries                           142.7      33.9      176.6       0.6
Training and Travel                           0.0      60.9      60.9        0.2
Equipment, Goods and Materials                0.0      19.6       19.6       0.1
operating Costs                              35.0       10.0      45.0       0.2
Subtotal                                      177.7     124.4     302.1        1.1
CONAMA Reorganization
Fees and Salaries                         6,203.2       0.0  6,203.2        21.9
Studies                                   1,520.0    380.0   1,900.0         6.7
Training and rravel                          24.0       0.0      24.0        0.1
Equipment, Goods and Materials               91.8    455.3      547.1        1.9
operating Costs                           1,349.5     110.0   1,459.5        5.1
Subtotal                                    9,188.5     945.3  10,133.8       35.7
Priority Sector Programs
................................. ........................................... ...
Control of Industry Pollution
Fees and Salaries                           300.0       0.0     300.0        1.1
Studies                                   1,272.9      83.2   1,356.1        4.8
Equipment, Goods and Materials                0.0      13.0       13.0       0.0
Operating Costs                              60.0       0.0      60.0        0.2
Subtotal                                    1,632.9      96.2   1,729.1        6.1
Native Forest Cadastre
Fees and Salaries                           709.5     103.5     813.0        2.9
Studies                                   1,070.0   1,930 0   3,000.0       10.6
Training and Travel                          19.2       0.0       19.2       0.1
Equipment, Goods and Materials              300.0     450.0      750.0       2.6
Operating Costs                             112.9       0.0      112.9       0.4
Subtotal                                    2,211.6   2,483.5   4,695.1       16.5
Control of Mining Pollution
Fees and Salaries                           207.0      33.0    240.0         0.8
Studies                                     112.2       0.0      112.2       0.4
Training and Travel                          37.4      10.0       47.4       0.2
Equipment, Goods and Materials                0.0      12.0       12.0       0.0
Operating Costs                               9.6       0.0        9.6       0.0
Subtotal                                      366.2      55.0      421.2       1.5
.._.......  ... ........... .........   .............. .........
Total Base Line Cost                       21,691.0  6,680.8 28,371.8        100.0
Physical Contingencies                        630.0     285.0      915.0
Price Contingencies                         2,784.0     700.0   3,484.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST              25,105.0   7,665.8  32,770.8



- 22 .
I      .2C: CHILI - FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
_________________________   ________________             Financing
Project Category          Total  1/           IBRD           Government
Consultancy Services             3.09             0.76              3.13
Studies                          9.36             8.43              0.93
Training                         5.10             0.73              4.37
Goods                            2.43             1.58              0.85
Community Pilot Projects         0.22                               0.22
Recurrent Expenditures
- Salaries                    8.85                                8.85
- Operation                   2.92                                2.92
Total Project Cost              32.77             11.50             21.27
1L/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
Table 43: CHILE - ESTIMATED ANNUAL RECURRENT COSTS ARISING FROM THE PROJECT
(US$ million)
Cost Category                     Continuing Recurrent Costs
Personnel                                2.3
Fares and Subsistence                    0.1
Operating Costs (including office rentals,
services, office supplies, etc.)        0.6
TOTAL                                     3.0
D. trocurement
5.04     Table 5.1 summarizes procurement arrangements under Bank loan. An
estimated annual contractual and other payment schedule is given in Annex B,
Table E.4



- 23 -
3ble S,l:  CIZLE - PROCORZIUNT ARRANGETS
(US million)
Category                Ica      LCB      Other      N.B.F.      Total */
Goods                        0.85     1.3S       0.23                  2.43 ]/
(0.65)   (0.76)    (0.17)                 (1.58)
Consultancy Serviceu                             3.89                  3.89 S/
(0.76)                (0.76)
Studies                                         9.36                   9.36
(8.43)                (8.43)
Training                                         5.11                  5.11 9/
(0.73)                (0.73)
Community Pilot Projects                                    0.22        0.22
(0.00)     (0.00)
Incremental Recurrent Expenses
Salaries                                                 8.85       8.85
(0.00)     (0.00)
Operation                                                2.92       2.92
(0.00)     (0.00)
Grand Total                  0.85     1.35      18.58      11.99       32.77
(0.65)   (0.76)   (10.09)      (0.00)    (11.50)
Total Goverrment Financing                                              21.27
Total IBRD Financing                                                    11.50
Total Project Cost                                                      32.77
&/ Totals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show alloca-
tion from loan proceeds.
2/ Includes: equipment, US$1.88 million; satellite pictures, US$0.36 million;
furniture and materials, US$0.16 million; and vehicles, US$0.034 million.
_/ Includes travel and subsistence costs.
5.05      CONAMA, through the STyA as executing agency, would carry out all
procurement under the project in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Since there are no specific
procurement laws in Chile, the bidding documents for both international and local
procurement agreed with the Bank will regulate the bidding procedures. During
appraisal, the Bank received the draft of the standard bidding documents for
goods. STyA staff participated in a launching workshop on the Bank's procurement
procedures carried out under the Primary Bducation Project. The final version of
the bieding documents for goods was submitted by STyA prior to Negotiations.
5.06      Equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials represent about 7.4
percent of total project costs. To the extent possible, contracts for goods
would be grouped to allow procurement of larger packages. Packages costing
$250,000 or more would be procured following Tnternational Competitive Bidding
(ICS) procedures. At least two TCQ packages are expected for office technology
and computing equipment. For purposes of bid evaluation, under the ICB proce-
dures local manufacturers will be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with Bank Gu$idlines.  Computing equipment to be uwed in the information system
would be procured, when appropriate, under the lCD two-step method. Other
smaller contracts between US$20,000 *ad US$250,000 for purchases of two vehicles
and other materials will be awarded under Local Competitive Bidding (LCD)
procedures satisfactory to the Bank up to an aggregate amount of US$1.35 million.
Final versions of the LCB and ICs documents satisfactory to the Bank, were



- 24 -
submitted by STyA prior to Negotiations.  Items costing up to US$20,000 and
aggregating to no more than US$230,000 could be purchased using local shopping on
the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers.
5.07      Consultants' services for technical assistance and studies will be
contracted in accordance with the Guidelines for the se of Coqsultants by World
hank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Ee_cutina Aaencv (August 1981). It is
intended that all contracts for services or studies valued at more than US$80,000
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Among the most important studies
expected will be the Aerial Photography Update study, the Cadastre study for
management of native forests, and the evaluation study of the National Environ-
mental Information System. For contracts above this threshold, a draft standard
letter of invitation and terms of contract based on the Bank's Sample Form of
Contract for Consultants.' Services (March 1989) was presented by the Government
to the Bank during the project appraisal mission. The final version was submit-
ted by STyA prior to Negotiations. Small consulting contracts valued below
US$80,000 equivalent will be subject only to ex-ogot review by the Bank, as
described in para. 5.08 below. These small contracts will consist of services
performed by consultants to carry out specific minor tasks and lasting no more
than four months. These contracts would be formalized on the brsis of standard
TORs and employment conditions, as well as selection procedures that have been
determined acceptable to the Bank.
S.08      All ICB contracts and the first two LCB contracts for goods, and
consultancy contracts valued above US$80,000 would be subject to prior review by
the Bank.  Thus, prior review will involve over 70 percent of goods and about 60
percent of consultants.  Since the rest of the consultants's services and a large
portion of the technical assistance under the loan will be carried out by local
consultants, this percentage is considered satisfactory. On a selective basis,
the Bank would review, as appropriate, ex-post procurement documentation. This
documentation will be retained by STyA for review by Bank supervision missions.
5.09      Community Pilot Projects.  The cost of any pilot project would not
exceed US$6,000 and, on average, their cost is expected to be about US$4,000.
These projects may include purchasing of goods (office materials, tools, seeds,
trees, etc.) and/or services (transportation, rentals of equipment, consultant
fees). Procedures to select projects are stated in para. 3.09. The total cost
of this community program is US$0.22 million.
E. Disbursement and Special Accounts
5.10      The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance
with the disbursement profile shown in Annex G, over the period of five years
(para. 5.02), which is shorter than the Bank's average profile for Chile (5.5
years) and the profile for Latin America (7 years). The disbursement period was
determined after taking into account the advanced status of project design; the
experience gained by STyA in implementating the PPF; the content of the project,
which includes mainly software components; and the commitment and high priority
given by the Government to address environmental issues. The allocation of loan
amount and the disbursement percentages are summarized in Table 5.2. Except for
contracts requiring prior review, disbursement would be made against a certified
statement of expenditures for which detailed documentation evidencing expendi-
tures would be made available for the required audit and also for review by the
Bank supervision missions. Prior to Negotiations, the Bank received the final
version of the accounting and disbursement procedures prepared by the STyA.



- 25 -
5.11     To reduce the interval between payments made by the beneficiaries and
receipt of reimbursements from the Bank, a Special Account would be established
in the Central Bank of Chile. The Special Account denominated in OS dollars
would be established with an initial deposit of US$1.15 million, the estimated
amount of four months of disbursement under the project. Project expenditures
would be monitored by STyA. The STyA would request replenishment of the Special
Account on the basis of standard disbursement procedures.
5.12     The Bank would finance up to US$0.6 million (5 percent of the proposed
Loan) retroactively, for expenditures incurred after August 1, 1992, in accor-
dance with Bank procurement and use of consultants guidelines. Retroactive
financing would be recommended so that the Government may begin obtaining
consultant services for STyA, purchasing equipment, implementing the fellowship
program abroad, and funding key project studies to facilitate the timely start of
the project.
F. Audits and Financial Management
5.13     An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank would:  (a) audit
accounts of CONAMA and the STyA, SO0s, and Special Accounts; (b) apply auditing
standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank that conform to generally
accepted auditing practices; (c) carry out its auditing work in a timely manner
(an annual report would be presented no later than six months after the end of
each calendar year); and (d) render an audit opinion or the reason whereby such
opinion cannot be rendered. A final version of the auditing procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, was presented by STyA prior to Negotiations. The Bank
provided preliminary assistance in financial management and application of modern
auditing approach to environmental entities. Additional technical assistance to
implement the actions agreed has been included in the project.
Table 5.2: CHILE - ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF IBRD LOAN
Amount of the Loan  Percent of Expenditures to be
Allocated (Expressed    Financed
Category              in USS Equivalent)
Consultancy Services                     680,000   100% of foreign expenditures;
Studies                                 7,600,000   100%
Fellowships                              600,000   100%
Vehicles, Furniture, Equipment, & Material  1,300,000   100%
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance  464,000
Unallocated                               856,000
Total                                  11 500_000_l
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision
5.14     Monitoring and evaluation would be an essential function in the project
management process to assure the anticipation and timely resolution of any
bottlenecks and to provide quality control. Overall monitorinat would be the
responsibility of STyA. Specific tasks include: (a) preparation of annual
progress reports on project implementation, which would be submitted to the Baak
by March 31 of each year in accordance with the format and content of the report
agreed with the Bank during the preappraisal mission; (b) measurement of
quantitative objectives achieved against the project indicators and targets shown
in Annex H and the expected outputs indicated in Annex C, Section C.1; (c) annual



* 26 -
update  and review of project implementation schedules and action plans; and
(d) preparation of a Project Completion Report submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing date.
5.15      Project performance would be evaluated in the month of May of each
project year. This annual review would focus on: (a) attainment of the basic
objectives and targets established for each component and subcomponents;
(b) implementation of sectoral policies, strategies, and CONANA's 1992/97 work-
plan; (c) improvement of the institutional capacity of CONAbM to carry out its
mandate at the central level, as well as its coordination capability with
sectoral ministries and regional environmental entities; (d) progress in meeting
the schedule, targets, objectives, and implementing recommendations of the
studies on economic analysis of environmental issues; (e) progress in developing
sectoral strategies aimed at evaluating and managing priority environmental
problems in the forestry, industry, and mining sectors (Annex D); and (f) project
indicators, targets (Annex H), and expected results (Annex C, Section C.1).
Agreement was reached that the annual evaluation will be carried out with the
participation of a multidisciplinary team from Chilean academic institutions,
whose qualifications are satisfactory to the Bank. The results of the annual
evaluations would be discussed in an annual seminar involving the CONAMA Board of
Directors and high-level officials of MIDEPLAN, CONAF, the Santiago Environmental
Commission (CEDRM), and the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, Economy, and
Mining.
6. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Expected Benefits
6.01      There is a growing realization that inadequate natural resources
management could become an obstacle to economic growth and that strategies are
needed to move toward resource conservation practices within the framework of a
market-oriented economy.  The project would contribute to sustainable and
efficient economic development by strengthening Government capability to manage
and implement environmental and natural resource policies, strategies, and plans.
Specifically, the project will lay the foundation for future resource and
environmental management by clarifying the legal framework, institutionalizing
the EA process in the public and private sector, training professionals in
environmental and natural resource management, establishing a system for environ-
mental information and data, supporting institutional strengthening in the center
and the regions, and supporting the economic analysis of selected environmental
problems. The project will also strengthen the environmental management capacity
of priority sectors. Given the central economic role of mining, forestry, and
fisheries (covered under the affiliated NIB/NDF project), the potential benefits
from improved resource management are very large. These three sectors alone
account for almost two-thirds of total exports, worth close to US$6 billion
annually. While mineral exports are the largest part, the environmental problems
of the mining sector will not affect the stock of mineral resources. The same is
not true for renewable resources like forestry, fisheries, or, at another level,
soil and water. Improper management of forests and fisheries can result in their
rapid degradation, with immediate costs in terms of exports and employment. The
total cost of the project is less than the value of a 1.5 percent decrease in
exports from the forestry and fishery sectors alone. Potential returns from
improved environmental management are large and continuing. Finally, the project
will provide health benefits to the citizens of Chile, especially in urban areas
and locations affected by industrial or mining pollutants. The potential health
benefits are substantial, as are the aesthetic benefits of living in a cleaner,



-27
more hospitable environment. Although difficult to quantify in monetary terms,
these benefits are large.
S. Risks and Safeguards
6.02      The major risks to project implementation are:
(a) STyA has been created recently and might experience resistance from part
of the public administration to become a leading agency to manage *md
implement fundamental policy changes in environmental protection and
nonservation of natural resources in Chile. To the extent possible, this risk
.,as been addressed by: (i) concentrating project efforts in strengthening the
STyA under the institutional development components; (ii) including a
multisectoral operational-consultative committee at the level of the STyA's
executive director; (iii) establishing STyA's legal status that would give
CONAMA the full capacity to execute its mandate and the necessary
administrative and managerial autonomy; and (iv) identifying and hiring, under
the PPF, key professional consultants who will be part of the new STyA
structure;
(b) the complexity of the project given its nature and scope which involves
many subcomponents and requires the participation of several agencies.
Although this risk is inevitable in an environmental operation, and since it
involves a wide range of activities and many sactors, it would be reduced by:
(i) limiting project intervention to improving the information base and
developing sectoral policies in only three sectors: mining, forestry, and
industry; and (ii) establishing detailed operational agreements with sectoral
ministries and agencies involved in project implementation. Furthermore, to
minimize this risk, comprehensive project preparation work has been carried
out with the assistance of local and foreign consultants financed by the PPF,
UNDP, and bilateral donors. In project design, special care has been given to
critical aspects such as implementation schedules, specific subcomponent
targets, subcomponent activities and outputs, and task budgets. The Bank
supervision effort would be particularly intensive during the startup stage of
the project. A joint Bank-STyA evaluation, including the participation of
qualified consultants, will be carried out at the end of each project year;
and
(c) legal and administrative difficulties faced by STyA in incorporating EA
in the public and private sector investment projects and in establishing an
environmental information system partially due to the lack of required regula-
tory framework and the need not to duplicate the data and system already
existing in the sectoral agencies. To minimize this risk, the EA component
was designed on the basis of a diagnostic study of Chile's EA capacity,
carried out by STyA with the assistance from a Canadian consultant. The lack
of a regulatory framework has been addressed by the signing of the operational
agreements between sector agencies outlining roles and responsibilities in the
area of EA and environmental information. Furthermore, the environmental
information system would be implemented gradually by: (i) starting with three
pilot regions; (ii) expanding the system according to the results of an ex-
Dost evaluation; and (iii) defining priorities for expansion' according to the
results of the pilot program and the 2x-post evaluation.
7. AGREzMWNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The fo'llowing agreed actions have been completed:



- 28 -
(a) the final versions of the TORI for all studies and consultancies to be
carried out under the project wore agreed (paras. 3.03-3.08, 3.12);
(b) the interministerial agreement for carrying out the environmental
assessment subcomponent was signed (para 3.06);
(c) the resolution appointing the interministerial committee to review the
policy relevance/implications of the economic studies wao issued (para. 3.13);
(d) the respective operational agreements between CONAMA, CONAF, the Ministry
of Economy, and Ministry of Mining to implement their respective components
and subcomponents under the project were signed (paras. 3.14-3.16); and
(e) the Operational Manual with procedures for procurement, disbursement, and
auditing was agreed (paras. 5.05-5.08, 5.10, 5.13).
7.02      )urina Neaotiationg, the following agreements were reached:
(a) the Government would provide the resources required to implement the
Project. It was also confirmed that the Government expects to provide US$2
million for the first year of project implementation (paras. 2.29, 4.06);
(b) the Government will furnish by the end of each year to the Bank for
review STyA's work plan for the next succeeding year (paras. 3.03, and 5.14);
(c) the Government will furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1995 the action
plans based on the results of policy studies concerning water and industrial
pollution (para. 3.15);.and by December 31, 1994, the Government will present
to the Bank the proposed environmental norms and standards for the mining
sector (para. 3.16). After review and approval by the Bank, the agreed
actions plans and norms and standards would be implemented;
(d) an implementation schedule that concentratee on high-impact and low-risk
components for the first two years of the project to develop public confidence
in STyA was agreed (para. 5.02);
(e) the five key variables that will serve as proxies for measuring the
project's impact were agreed (para. 5.14); and
(f) the Government will review with the Bank each year the progress of the
Project, and the attainment of the objectives of the project. Such review
will be carried out with the assistance of an interdisciplinary team from
Chilean academic institutions, whose qualifications are satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.15).
7.03 The signing of the operational agreement between CONAMA and the Central
Bank is a condition for disbureements of funds for the subcomponent of Economic
Analysis of Environmental issues (para. 3.13).
Recommendations
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$11.5 million equivalent
for the Republic of Chile, repayable in 17 years including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 29 -
CHILE
BqVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES A - I



- 30 -
Annex As CHILI - CONAMA DECREE *544 (October 1991)
REPUBLIC OF CHILE REPLACES DECREE #240, YEAR 1990, MINISTRY OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
CREATING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION COMMISSION
Santiago, October 9, 1991
N544    WHEREAS:
The stipulation in article 190 NO 8 and 320 NO 8 of the Political
Constitution of the Republic, and in the S.D. NO 240 of June 5, 1990 of the
Ministry of National Resources, published in the Official Gazette of September 8,
1990;
WHEREAS:
The need to perfect the institutional coordinating instruments to address
the environmental problems in Chile,
I DECREE:
Sole Article: The text of S.D. NO 240 of June 5, 1990, of the Ministry of
National Resources, published in the Official Gazette of September
8, 1990, creating the National Environment Commission, is replaced
by the following one:
Article 1:  A commission named NATIONAL ENV IROMENT COMMISSION, from now on
referred to as the Commission, is hereby created with inter-
ministerial character, and will be in charge of the study, proposal,
analysis, and evaluation of all matters related to the protection
and preservation of the environment.
Any plan regarding the area of competence of this Commission must be
submitted to the Ministers Committee which in turn will submit it to
the President of the Republic, in order to be applied through the
corresponding Ministry or Public Service who shall sponsor the
corresponding law in accordance with article 190 NO 8 of the
Constitution of the Republic.
Article 2:   The Minister of National Resources will preside over the Commission
which will be made up of a Ministers Committee, an Operational
Committee, and a ''echnical and Administrative Secretariat (STyA).
The latter will be located in the Ministry of National Resources.
Article 3: The Ministers Committee will be the highest level in the Commission
for approving plans and proposals regarding environmental policy
decisions. The Committee, to be presided by over the Minister of
National Resources, will be further made up by the Ministers of
Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Education, Public Works,
Agriculture, Health, Mining, Housing and City Planning, Transpor-
tation and Telecommunications, Presidency's Secretariat General, and
Planning and Cooperation.
The Committee will meet at least four times a year, although it may
hold extraordinary sessions when so required by the needs of the
Committee in its President's judgment or at the request of two or



- 31 -
more Ministers, or when the Committee itself may so determine. The
Secretary of STyA of the Commission will serve as the Committee's
Secretary.
The Ministers Committee primaeily will be responsible for the
introduction, substance, and implementation program of any
environmental project with bilateral and multilateral financing and
technical cooperation.
To this end the Secretary of STyA, as charged by the Commission's
President, will submit project proposals for consideration and
approval by the Ministers Committee.
The Committee may work through the Ministers Subcommittees to review
certain general projects for a specified period of time, or specific
projects for an extended period of time.
To the degree that its execution pertains to matters within their
competence, and provided there is unanimity among its members, the
Subcommittees will present their proposals. If members do not
agree, the discrepancy will be placed under consideration of the
ministers Committee, which will be summoned to an extraordinary
session if necessary.
The President of the Commission and the Secretary of STyA, on their
own right, will participate in all SubCommittees that are
established.
The Secretariat for each Subcommittee will be the representative of
such Ministry that the Ministers Subcommittee may select.
Article 4:   The President will be in charge of the Commission's overall
direction, will look after the efficient and timely operation of the
different organisms that it comprises and will be its spokesperson,
all in accordance with the stated criteria and decisions adopted by
the Ministers Committee.
Article 5:   The Operational Committee will be a consultative, investigatory,
communication, and technical coordination agency. Likewise, it will
be in charge of the analysis of studies and proposals originating
from the National Commission's President, the other Ministries
represented on the Commission, or from the STyA for purposes of
identifying impact, costs, and benefits for the different sectors
involved.
The Operational Committee may function through Working Groups to
addreso specific subjects on which it agrees. The Working Groups
will be coordinated by the Secretary of STyA.
The Operational Committee will be presided over by the Commission's
Secretary of STyA and will be made up of a representative from each
one of the members of the Ministers Committee, plus a representative
from the Interior, Foreign Affairs, Finance and Defense Ministries,
and from the National Energy Commission and Corporation for
Development. Notwithstanding the preceding, the Operational
Committee may extend an extraordinary invitation to all institutions
or persons it may consider appropriate to address specific subjects.



- 32 -
Artil*le 6:  The STyA will be the technical agency of the Commission in charge of
studying the sectoral initiatives tending to improv, the
environmental condition of the country. it will also be its duty to
study and analyze projects, reports, and proposals sent to the
Ministers Committee regarding the fulfillment of the established
environmental policies and the specific implementation of programs
and initiatives on environment. STyA must also elaborate the
projects in those areas where the main element is not of a sectoral
nature.
on the other hand, the Mlnistries in general or through their
Environmental Subcomissions, as well as other public agencies with
competence in environmental matters, and the Torritoria_ Commissions
on Environment, must institutionally link themselves with STyA to
duly fulfill these functions; in addition, they must send reports on
their projects to the aforesaid Secretariat in order to be submitted
for consideration by the Ministers Committee.
Article 7:  The Executive Secretary of the STyA will be appointed by the
President of the Republic.
The Ministry of National Resources will request resources from the
Ministry of Finance that the Minister. Committee may deem necessary
for the functioning of the Commission's STyA. To carry out its
duties, the STyA will have the staff and resoarces assigned by the
Minister. Committee, adjusting itself to the rules and regulations
in force and to budget resources.
Article 8:  The STyA will have the following functions, among others:
(a) Propose to the Ministers Committee the formation of sectoral
Environment Subcoimissions by Ministries and the coordination measures
of such Subcommissions, evaluating their results, all of which will be
analyzed in the Operational Committee for the purpose of information,
consultation, and interministerial agreements.
(b)  Propose to the Ministers Committee the legislation or administrative
resolutions deemed necessary to address environmental matters. The
Commission's resolutions, adopted through the Ministers Committee, will
be submitted to the President of the Republic, preceded by a
report from the Ministry or the specific Ministries affected by the
proposed legislation or administrative measures.
(c) Prepare programs for the education about and dissemination of
environment matters to be submitted through the Ministers Commaittee for
consideration by those Ministries associated with subjects referred to
in the proposed programs. Xn the same manmer, the STyA must report on
the results of such programs.
(d) Prepare environment investment projects and action programs for
consideration by the Commission's Ministers Committee, preceded by a
report from the Ministry or Ministries having specific competence in
the matters referred to in such projects and programs.
(e)  Propose to the Ministry of the Interior, as previously agreed by the
Ministers Committee, activity programs for the Territorial Environment
Commissions.



- 33 -
(f) Advise the President of the Commission on matters related to the
international support of environmental projects.
(g) Establish technical relations with the international agencies devoted
to environmental problems.
(h)  Maintain the permanent coordination of the Commission with the
Territorial Environment Commissions and the Environment Subcommissions
of the Ministries, communicating to them the resolutions adopted by the
Ministers Committee and reporting to th- latter on their activities,
plans and programs, and its evaluation.
Article 9:  Regional and Provincial Environment Commissions at the territorial
level will be created. The Regional Commissions will be presided
over by the corresponding Mayor, and the Provincial Commissions by
the corresponding Governor.
The Territorial Commissions must function in close cooperation with
the National Commission, its President, and STyA.
The Ministerial Regional Secretaries selected by each Mayor will
function as Technical and Administrative Secretaries of the
corresponding Regional Commissions; for this purpose, they will be
subordinated to the National Commission's STyA, which will report on
the implementation of their programs and activities and orient them
to fulfill the environmental policies established by the National
commission.
Article 10: The Territorial Commissions mentioned in the preceding article will
have the means to facilitate the adequate participation of and
coordination with the Social Organizations in the area involved in
all matters related to the environment. The Regional Territorial
Commissions, on the other hand, will include the respective
Ministerial Regional Secretaries. In any case, on technical matters
they will conform to norms established by the Regional Planning and
Coordination Secretariats (SERPLAC).
Article 11: Within the limits of their respective legal competence, Ministries
and Services will place special attention to discharging their
environment authority. In addition, they will be responsible for
controlling and supervising the effect of their decisions and
projects on the environment.
The alternative resolutions and options beyond the Ministries
jurisdiction will be submitted to the President of the Republic
through the Ministers Committee for adoption of the relevant
resolutions; in the meantime, the Ministries and Services will be
responsible for the activities in their areas of competence.
Article 12: The Interior Ministry's Special Decontamination Commission of the
Metropolitan Region, created by S.D. N 349 in 1990, will replace in
all its functions the Regional Commission at the territorial level,
which must be created in the Metropolitan Region of Santiago, in
accordance with Article 9 of the present Supreme Decree, and which
will work in close cooperation with this National Commission.



- 34
Article 13: The creation of the National Snvironment Coomission does not isply
any modification of the present functions and competencies of tho
different Ministries and Publ$c Services .of the State
Administration.
Article 14: The internal organization and functioning of the Commiosion will be
the object of the bylaws that it may approve.
As recorded above, let it be known and published in the Official Gazette.
(SIGNED)    PATRICIO AYLWIN AZOCAR, President of the Republic.
LUIS ALVARADO CONSTENIA, Minister of National Resources.
The above has been transcribed for your information.
(Signed) PIA FIGUEROA s.
Pia Figueroa S.
Undersecretary of National Resources



- 35
A*A z 3 s CXLU - NNVZRON2NTAL SZCTOR NATXZ= O IOLXCT, STRATXGY,
JMD OBJZCTZVES
Polify                                        6trategy                                Priorfty Objectives
, .,..,,,,, ............................. ,, ,............ ,   ............................................................... ............ ................................_
1. It will be the State*S responsibility  1. Promote a process of introduction and           1. Oevelop and fnstfitutfonat schem  for
to protect the native weatth In flora        gradual implementation of the Environ-          the Implementation, mnagement  nd
and fauna, the qualIty of air and            mental Policy (EP), selective and                scdinistr*tfcn of the UP, strengthen-
water, rivers, lakes and the terr-           inductive, seaording to the priorities           ing CONAMA' snstftutional scheme an
toral sea, the renewabte and non             emerging from the s etoral and terr-            the Implemerntatfon of a strategic plan
renewable resources.                         tornal levels, taking into account that         through the organmfation and Improve-
the country is involved In a process to         mant of the operstive capaeity of
modernize Its eonomy and, at the some           STyA.
time, must incorporate in that process
a soeial sector which has been left
behind in poverty.
2. The necessary ecologieal equilibrium   2. Develop a capacity for public environ            2. Improve the management and protection
fitt be preserved and nature will not        mental management to coordinate the              of natural resources,  speciatly In
be destroyed by exploitation or by           priorities generating processes and the          the forestry, fishery and mining
the indiseriminate use of natural            obligations with the different sectors           areas.
resources.                                   of society, with the purpose of correc-
ting and preventing environmental
problems in polluted areas, of managing
natural resources in a rationaL manner
and ensuring a better handling of the
urban and fndustrial expansion.
3. The State will assume its responsibi-  3. Coordinate the process to exptain In            3. Redtce the  egsative impact of sectoral
ltftes fn preserving basic environ-          detail the EP urder a participative             activities on the environment.
mtntal equilibriums.  For that               scheme, trying to escabLish general
purpose, It wfil be necessary to             accent and commitments wi:h the
prompt an indivfdual and socale              different sectors and honoring the
behavior, incorporating a correct            ru!es of the game agreed with the
attitude In environmental problems,          private sector.
preventing them ad considering that
environment is one of the central
elements In the devwlopment strategy.
4. It will be the State responsibilfty    4. Introduce the subject of environment in    4. Ca) Study and propose solutions to
to guarantee in an effective manner          the dffterent economic activitfes to                 the prct ems derived from urban
the right to tive in a pollution-free        correct and prevent environmental                    *xpansfctk.
envfronment.                                 problems, subiectfng the changes to              tb) Prevent the negative environment
progressive processes of negotiacions               effects derived from the new
and consensus with the different                     investment projects.
economic sectors and agents.
S. Incernational cooperation relations    5. Oevelop contact and sources of informa-    5. Actively participate in the world
and the solidarity in many matters of        tion linked to efforts world-wide In the         efforts to decontaminate the atmo-
coomen Interest will be duly valued,         area of natural resources conservation           sphere, watets and soils and protect
the protection of the global environ-        and environmental protection.                    natural renewal resources.
ment extendfng beyond the national
sphere, thut, making international
cooperation necessary.
6. Promote the development of institu-    6. This strategy implies:  (a) formulatfng    6. Implement sectoral policies  nd plans
tional capacities to manage and              and implementing an EP comprising the            to improve ratural resources manage-
adhminister the EP in the context of         basic principles, adequate means for             ment aid-coordination at the central
the reforms and modernization of the         their implementation, and meehanisms             and regional level.
State Administration being promoted          of social control and citizenry partf-
by the goverment, in the framework           cipation, and comfitting their fmple-
of democratization, decentralizatfon,        mentation in the different sectors of
and regionalization.                         society; Cb) establishing prioritfis to
correct, as much as possible, the
effects derived from problems accumutated
in the past, nd to prevent the genera-
tion of greater or new environmental
problems; (c) developing instruments for
the implementation of UP to: (1) promul-
gate laws ard regulations, makfng
possible the establishment of the bases
of environmental laws; Cii) promote the
basic and applied investfgation in
environmental matters; Cfii) create an
sdeqwate fnstitutional network to
sustain the efficient public management
of environment within the framework of
the present adninistrative structure; nd
CIv) develop education in environmental
matters, especially at the basic tevel of
the formal and nonformal sectors.



- 36 -
Ann-e C: CHLE - DETAILED DESCRZ1TXON OF THE INSTITUTIONAL
STRBNGTHENZNG COMOMNENT
Section C.O: DRSCRXPTXON OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL AND MANAGBMEU  APNGWMETS
Background
1.    In Chile, as in many countries, environmental competencies are dispersed
among a great number of public entities. As a result, an important constraint to
environmental management is the absence of communication and coordination among
the main environmental actors. In particular, there are redundancies and
ambiguities concerning the role, functions, and responsibilities of the different
entities and hierarchic levels. With the creation of CONAMA and its technical
arm--the Technical and Administrative Secretariat (STyA) --in 1990, the Government
tried to address the urgent organizational and managerial environmental issues
of: (a) lack of a central body for setting environmental policies, strategies,
and plans; and (b) lack of a central forum to lead and coordinate environmental
activities. The STyA of CONAMA is still in an embryonic stage, facing serious
limitations in carrying out its mandate due to insufficient administrative and
managerial autonomy, insufficient technical and support staff, lack of basic
infrastructure (office space and equipment), and lack of manual and procedures.
CONANA Current Functions and Structure
2.   The National Environmental Commission.7/ The Commission is chaired by
the Ministry of National Resources and composed of the Conmittee of Ministers,
the Operational Committee, the Sectoral Subcommissions, the Technical and
Administrative Secretariat (STyA) of CONAMA, and the Regional Environmental
Commissions (COREMAS) (Annex C, Chart 3.1). Briefly:
(a) The Committee of Ministers is comprised of the Ministers of Economy,
Education, Public Works, Agriculture, Health, Housing, Transportation and
Telecommunication, General Secretariat of the Presidency, Planing, and
Cooperation. Its mandate is to study, analyze and evaluate policy and
strategic proposals in all matters related to environmental protection and
natural resources conservation. It also is responsible for defining STyA's
structure and organization;
(b) The Ooerational Committees are working groups composed of
representatives of the sectoral Ministries and public institutions,
dealing with environmental and natural resources activities. They
have the responsibility of providing assistance to the Committee of
Ministers for specific environmental problems;
(c) The Sectoral Subcommissions are environmental commissions
located in each sectoral Ministry. They are composed by high
officials of each ministry and have the responsibility to ensure that
7/ CONANA Decree #544 (Annex 1) describes in detail the functions and
responsibilities of CONAMA. The project is not proposing to change this Decree,
which will be superseded by the Law for Sustainable Environmental Development
supported by the Project.



- 37 -
action plans are implemented on a timely basis and all internal activities
are carried out in integrated working teams. Coordination with the STyA is
contemplated in CONAMA Decree #544 of October 1991;
(d) The Technical and Administrative Secretariat (STyA), as currently
structured, is constituted by the Executive Secretary (appointed by the
President of Chile), the technical coordinator, and six full-time
professionals in charge of legislation, education, environmental impact
assessment, forestry, industrial pollution, and budget and accounting
activities; and
(e) The Regional Environmental Commissions (COREMAS) are chaired by local
government authorities and constituted by the Directors of the Ministerial
Regional Secretariat (SEREMI) and representatives of community and social
organizations. The RECs are independent from STyA and regulated by Decree
#544/91.
The Technical Secretariat (STyA) Proposed Organization
3.   The current STyA structure reflects an inevitable improvisation of
structural relationship that reflects little previous experience in the sector.
To fully carry out its mandate as a central technical coordinating body, the STyA
will require administrative and managerial autonomy,8/ as well as redefinition'
of its current organization (Annex C, Chart 3.2). The proposed structure was
prepared by STyA with the assistance of an Institutional Development Specialist,
financed by the Bank, and was discussed with the Bank mission during the project
preappraisal. Briefly:
(a) The Executivs Secretarv will focus on policy and program planning and
management. The ES will be the Bank's Project Manager. Acting as a
Technical Secretary to the Committee of Ministers, he/she will propose for
its approval: (a) the national environmental policies and strategies and
STyA's national and regional organization; (b) the necessary legal
regulatory framework for environmental protection and conservation of
natural resources; and (c) the investment projects, operational budget and
corresponding action plans. Additionally, the ES will build support from
the private sector as well as from international donors and NG08;
(b) The Consultative Committee will be composed of representatives from
sectoral ministries, the private sector, NGOs, and academic institutions.
Its purpose is to provide guidance to the ES on environmental and natural
resource policies, planning, and strategies;
(c) The QOorational Committee will be chaired by CONAMA's Executive
Secretary ant. is comprised of the Project Coordinator, and the Heads of
the Planning Division, Technical Coordination Division, Operational
Coordination Division, Coordination of Information and Training
Division, and Administrative Coordination Division. Its main
responsihilities are to: (a) review the implementation of STyA's action
plans; (b) analyze organizational problems that could affect program
execution; and (c) suggest remedial actions to the ES;
T/ These issues will be addressed through a specific Ministerial Resolution and
Protocol to grant STyA the required financial and administrative autonomy (para.
3.03 of the main report).



- 38
(d) The Institutional Develooment Unit will provide assistance to the
ES and the major division in planning, progranmming, monitoring, and
evaluation of STyAls activities. Specifically, for the Bank project,
the Planning Division will coordinate .and monitor the implementation of
all components and provide information for the annual evaluation of the
project;
(e) The Prolect Coordinator will coordinate the overall project
implementation; serve as operational counterpart of the World Bank;
monitor project execution; and prepare administrative guidelines and
procedures required for project implementation;
(f) The Technical Coordination Divigion will manage the implementation
and coordination of the action plans concerning environmental
legislation, the information system, environmental assessment,
international cooperation, economic analysis, regional environmental
commissions, and environmental information;
(g) The Ooerational Coordination Division will manage the imple-
mentation and coordination of the action plans concerning basins,
industrial pollution, hydrobiological resources, forestry, human
settlements (housing), and solid waste;
(h) The Information and Trainina Division will manage the
implementation of the action plans concerning public relations,
international relations, environmental awareness, training, and
education; and
'i) The Administrative Coordination Division will provide
administrative support and control for all accounting, financial,
budgeting, and personnel functions. This Division will also have the
responsibility for project accounting, disbursement, and procurement
procedures.



- 39 -
Chart C. 1: CONAMA ORGAZATXORA  S8RUCTUZ
MINIST'RSS
COmMITTiU
(CONAMA)
[OPA RAnONAL                   | TECMNICA AND ADMINiSThATiVE             SCTORALJl
|omi COMUllT2_ .              |SECRETARIAT ISryAI      . . . . .   SUSCOMMISS;CN l
RX2310NAL -hNVIAONMENTAL
COMMISSiCN SMCAETAPIA7.
esaSw522S9



* 40 
Cbat C.*2:  SUCTURZ OF TUX TUCZCAL AND A ZNZSTRATE  SZCRSTARZAT  (STyA)
CONAMUA|
IEXECUTIVe SECREARA              CONSULtAT.IVE
(STA)                   CO&MM11TEE
PRO.SC7
COOROINA-OR
|  IN    AL --t SCENALI| _
IDEVVECPMENTI
UNi7
COOROINA.-I .N            CO   INATiON   I        AIND '.AIN NA          -OOP .IA'1OG
.    oIvIS;ON      ,    OIVISION           _    DIV N S.;N 
P( ICY AND                                         Puat iC               A C U NG
|lEiMPACTON                BASIN                  RELATIONS                 UNIT
UANIALYS                    UNIT                    UNIT
IMPACT                                        IN7=NA.%CNAL              tO3AN
ASSESSET                AN -IP3LLVrION            RELATIONS              IC9-MNFINT
UNiT                    UNIT                    U6NIT                     -I
INs.4    NSOENVIRONMENTAL P| 4ONNL
COCPERATIOSLWASTE                                 AWARENESS L|IT
coo                     UNIT                     UNIT
ECONOMICRSRYTANIGur
ANALYSiS                FRSR                    RIIGUI
UNIT                    UNIT
REGIONAL                 MUMAN
E-NVIRONMEiNTAL          SE -MLEMENTS
COMMISSIONS              AND HOUSING
UNIT
E.WPONM              "~~~YORO
ENViRONMENTAL       BIOLOGICAL
INFORMATIO               RESOURCES
UNIT                     UNIT



Section C.l: NRTRIX OF OBJECTIVES. ACIVITIES. AM  EXPECT  @ITPIITS
OBJECTIVES                                          ACTIVITIES                                                 0UtIPUTS                  ESTIMITID      PMTICI-
CoNWPETlUN      PATING
____________                                                                                                  ~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DATE  A03IE3
AUtEA 1: ENVIRo"NETAL
LEGISLATIN       AN P0R^
Ilpro   the  egal-          1.1  Assist technical discussions on the environamntal dosic Law.           Defirn. criteria into ChIM 1   level   Oec  er 1993   STyA
*vironsAntal fremawork                                                                                   and sa  prting frm private
seetor.
Support Congressional disussions   Decmber 1993
on the Basic Law.
1.2  Assist the study and iuplemntation of specific sectoral laus in        Define sectoral laos and present    Deeewier 1994
priority areas.                                                        to ChOMANus Ministers Cevnittee.
1.3  Support the analysis and propositions of administrative reforms        Diagnose enviromental public         December 1994
in selected envirosrental fields.                                      responsibilities.
Diagnose public pro.-ares to get   Deeember 1994
clearance in eiwirciuental ieact
of projects.
Propose better procedwres.           Deeesber 1994
1.4  Assist the analysis of envirounental incentive and disincentive        Diagnose current legislation.        December 1994
systems in selected fields.                                            Propose specific system.             December 1994
1.5  Support the developeent and up-to-date environmental judicial          Design inforintion system.           Deceabwr 1993
information system.                                                    Produce nd disseminate technical   December 1995
docusnt.
1.6  Assist the development of Chile's international response in            Diagnose current situation.          Deceadbr 1993
envirormental legislation and enforcement.                             Propose goals  functions, nd         December 1993
responsibilities.
0efine strategy for isprtat n        Decer 1995
international mnviroeumntal
issues.
1.7 Assist in the better preparatfon of the public lawyers on               Launch seminars, workshops, and      Decber 1995
enviroiuental legislation.                                            pIubl ications.



- 42 -
OBJECTIVES          I                          ACTIVITIES                         -                       OUT|UTS                     I   ESTIMTID    I P      Clet-
I                                  I                                                 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cUNPiETIN  P1TI3W
____ _   _  _1.                                                                                    _______I __DATE_ A_EWIES_
MAE 2: ENVIRtFllETAL
Incorporate the EA Into      2.1  Identify and define institutional coepetencies              Create and irpleent EA ministerial *nd             Demeaber 1994   STyA
the dscision-amking               and responsibilities to implement EA at sectoral            regional units.
procedures for investment          and territorial levels.
projects In the public       2.2  Raise consciousness process about EA into pthlic            Program panels of expert, seminars and             December 1997
nd private sectors, as             and private organizations.                                 conferences.
pert of the feasibility      2.3  Build a training capacity.                                  Program courses and fellomships.                   December 1995
analysis of such             2.4  Train selected public professionals in the                  Program courses and fellowships.                   Deca  er 1995
projects.                          preparation and clearance of EA.
2.5  Define criteria for erwironuental evaluation of            Establish criteria in specific areas.              December  993:
s4ected projects.
2.6  Cqrry out E  pilot studies on certain types of             Program pilot studies.                             December 199ff
prejects.                                                  Program methodological gufdelines.                 December 1994
Diagnose standard and regulatory framework        Dece ber 1994
needs.
2.7  Carry out specific EA studies in mining sector on          Program small-task mining activity E  study.    Decesiber 1994
critical matters.                                          Prepare Chalsaral Bay EA and social improve-
ment plan.                                        DBoher 1995
IN EVIITAL            -
NOT U Ut PUBLIC SECTOR
iPROFESSlOMUS (FPX;%S)
Strenthen the perfon r       3.1  Implement and maintain PCCASP administration and            Establish a training unit within STyA.             Deceer 1993   STyA
mnce capabilities of                mnagoemnt systems at the STyA/CONUAA level.
public sector persoimiel     3.2  Determine and update public sectors training needs          Define work program  to be implemented by the    DecPe,br 1993
lnwolved in mnaging               in envirotmental mawnaeent.                                Unit.
envirormental activities.   3.3  Define and update, in detail, PCGASP pilot programs          Define  nd iplement training pilot program        Deo ber 1993
periodically.                                              for 600 participants.
Define and train selected institutions to         Dtecber 1993
carry out public training.
3.4  Implement and maintain PCGASP for 1993-97 period           Define  nd implement *ein training program         De  ber 199?
(main prooram).                                            for 3,000 participants including courses,
seminars and workshops.
3.5  Design and iople ent PC6ASP's evaluation process.          Design survys and evaluation process.              Deceaber 1993



- 43 -
OBJECTIVES                                    ACTIVITIES                                                OUTPUTS                        ESTINATED     PRTICI-
COU'LETIOI    PATISN
______________________________________                DATE        AGEIIES
AiF  4:  EUVIRONNENTAI_
Contriute to ensure that   4.1  Create a DcxtLentation Center within STyA to                Establish the Documentation Center at STyA.      December 1994   STVA
people are informed about         develop public consciousness-raising and education        Publish printed texts and videos.                December 1996
the cuss and effects of           programs.
the main ewirownentat
problems and participate
In the search for and
loplementation of the
solutions.
Implement a nonformal       4.2  Implement a consciousness-raising and edcwational         Propose programs consisting of seminars ard      Deceber 1997
.oucatfon program                 program an environrental matters,                         courses for 11 700 peopla.
regarding causes and
effects and ways to soltv
th environmental
koster citizenry            4.3  Identify small projects for possible participa-           Implement 30 locally-designed projects.          Ceceber 1994
participation in solvfng          tion In the context of regionalization and
pecific enironmental              decentralization progras conducted by the
problems at the coneAnity         Gvenrnment.
level.                      4.4  Disseeinate campIgn In three critical regions.
4.5 SeLeet projects
14.6   plePI_t. follow up  and evaluate projects.
NEOWTIMZ gig tElStA
laprev   nvronentai         5.1 Develop a Pltot Program In three regions.                  Design system.                                   December 1993   Sty
strategic decision-mrking                                                                   mpleoment Pilot Program.                        Decesher 199W
at the national level.       5.2  Estabtish basic Institutional capacity at the centrat   Ilplement basic hardtare and infrastructur       IDecebier 1994
nd regional levels.                                      (pilot progrem).
Establish operational agreevnts to anmu         Dechoi2r 19W.
coordination between STyA an  insti ulot ns
involved in environmntal Innfomtionf
5.3  Create nd drvelop the requisit data base.                 Imple ent basic software (pilot program).       Decebebr 1494
S.4  Iput specialized softiwre pacbges to facilitate the
ge_eration, collection, processing 'nd distribution
of nwirormntad infor tion.
SJ  Deeop a natifnat progrm baed on pilot project             ;mplement basic hardware, softwa,  nd            December 1997
_ _ _ _ _ttn.                                                   infrastructure (in pregre.
.                                         _ _ .                    _           -~~~~~ _ 



-44-                                                     -
OBJECTIVES                                    ACTIVITIES                                                OUTPUTS                         ESTINATED      PARTICI-
tGIWLETIOl!    PATING
_______________________  ._________________________________________________                                                                   DATE        AGEHCIES
AREA .:  PUIbTIN ON  TOE
IlTaCDIJCTICU OF ECoNIOIC
CONlCEPTS IN EllVIEO1NEN1AL
ANALYSIS AMD DECISION-
NAIING IN THE PUBLIC
E    5ble the Goveriment to    6.1  Create a fund for studies In the area of environ-        Establish an economics unit at STyA.             December 1993   STyA
assess the economic               mental and natural resources economies.                    lwplement eight studies about economic           December 1997
iopact of envirosmental                                                                      issues addressing concrete needs to
measures.                                                                                    implement environmental policies.
6.2  Incorporate an environmental accounting system in the   Implement and operate an Environmental             Decedber 1M93   Central
National Accounts of the Central Bank of Chile.           Accounts Unit at the Central Bank.                                Bank
lmplement program to introdcwe environmental   December 1995   STyA
accounts into the National Accounts System.
6.3  Train personnel and detision-makers of the public          Train 120 people In basic environmental         December 1994
sector in envirormental and natural resources             econormics concepts.
economies.
fREA 7:  STRENGTHENING
AIID ORGANIZING THE STvA
Contribute to the            7.t  Design STyA's general uork plan in terms of environ-       Establish STyA's plan for FT93-97.               June 1992        STyA
strengthening of the               ental policy objectives and goals.
operating capacity at        7.2  Design an organizational structure for STyA.               Structure STyAs functions.                       June 1992
STyAlCOIIAIU.                7.3  Define tasks and resources needed to implement tasks.    Project STyA0s budget for fY93-97.                 June 1992
7.4  identify the institutional strengthening needs.
7.5  Define a work plan to recruit and train new persomel    Ipletment STyA's plans.                            Deceumer 1997
_______________________         for    STYA.
AREA 8     RS E3 TIE
DEVE"    NT OF EWNIRO-
mNTAL IkSTITU1TONS IN
THE fORESTRY SECTOR
Support COMAF to carry       6.1  Caujy out a cadastre on a national scale of natural        Aerial photography of current forest            December 1993
out a forest and natural          vegetation resources.                                      vegetation.
vegetation eadastre                                                                          Implemet cadastre.                              Decddber 1994-
oriented to support          8.2  Establish a follow-up and monitoring system for the        Design system.                                  Deeebier 1996
sectoral smagement.               conservation status of natural vegetation formation,    lmplement system.                                  December 1996
based on the cadastre and satellite images.               Train personmel.                                 December 1996
Operate pilot system.                           December 1997
8.3  Evatuate CONAF's institutional capacity to work on        Carry out institutional study.                   December 1993
tho cadastre and the mnitoring system.                  I                                                I                I



- 45
UJECTIVES                                     ACTIVITIES                                                UTFUTS                        ESTIMATED      PAlCId-
ONPLETION1   PATIII
-_________________________________________ _  DATE      AGENCIES
AU 9:  S3Lt  TNE
lEWllPNT OF EIIYII11
IIEITL lsTTulellas 111
TMi MININiG SECTOR
O          evelop ' emir ometel  9.1  Upd.te diagnosis of the envwiroental ilsct of         Set of norms and standards related to           Deceler 1993   Ministry
norm  and stards.                 the  ining sector on a national scale (EA component).   affluent discharge, solid aste disposal,                           of
9.2  Prepare sectoral envlromental norm    d standards.       and mine abardoment.                                             Nining
9.3  Train Ninistry of Mining's professional personl in    leplement training program.                         December 1993
_Pecialized _bJects.
AMA^ 10: OI"T F                    lE NsE:
CAPACITY OF EUVIEOMENAL
INUITUIOKS CAPACITY II              A) lenign IX Pilot Plta:
TIlE INMISTRIAL SECTOR
Develop the capacity to      10.1  Make fast inventories on the emission or prodution    tIplesent pilot plons in IX Region.                December 1993   Ministry
elaborate policies  nd             of atmspheric IndiAstrial contaminants.                                                                                  of
standards  as well as        10.2  Uake fast inventories of the mission or production                                                                       EconoW
mnitor regtlations to              of contaminants resulting from solid industrial
control air, solid waste,          residues.
nd water pollution.          10.3  Nake fast evaluations of the air quality.
10.4  Make fast evaluations on the environsental quality
of disposal places-of solid industrial residues.
10.5  Train personnel in charge of pollution control          Establish training program for 100 partici-    December 1993
progrms.                                                pants.
10.6  Evaluate regional capity for pollution maagement.   Create study and action plans for IX Region.   Oece ber 1993
D) Actions at Mational Level:
10.7 Elaborate a solid industrial waste manual.               Publish anual.                                  December 1993
10.8  Elaborate a global policy cs industrial pollution.      Issue policy papers.                            Deceeber 1993
10.9  Elaborate a water pollution control policy.             Issue water policy papers.                      December 1993
.            ~~~SEC pow: 
10.10 AtOsphere and solid waste applications at national      lmplement plan in five more regons.             Dece be  1997'
level.
10.11 TraIn personnel in charge of pollution control          Establish training program for t6o partici-    December 1997
prorass                                                 pants.
10.12 DefIne a program for specific studies to consolidate   implement action plane.                          December 1997
the I lementation of phases.



46
Section C . 2:8IVRO)OWITAL ASS3XBKsNT (IA) IN TIN PUDLIC AND PRIVATZ SECTOR
OvervLew
1.     Environmental assessment (HA) is a procedure by which environmental
hazards and costs associated with investment projects will be identified,
analyzed, and evaluated. On the basis of this analysis, mitigating measures
will be proposed for incorporation into the design of such projects. AS are
best carried out early in the planning and design phases of investment
projects, allowing time to make design changes and to explore environmentally
cost-effectiveness alternatives. Today, HA procedures are required practice
within most bilateral and multilateral international development Zinancing
agencies. Since 1989, the Bank has required all proposed investment projects
to be subject to environmental screening, classification according to
environmental sensitivity, and a mandatory environmental assessment to be done
of all environmentally sensitive projects.
2. EA requirements and procedures are still rudimentary in Chile. A Bank-
financed study of Chile's capacity to carry out environmental assessments of
public investment projects revealed the lack of an overarching EA law and
supporting regulatory instruments for HA; absence of public agency personnel
(especially in the regional government offices) who are trained to carry out
environmental assessment; lack of sectoral environmental standards as bench-
marks for HA; lack of incountry training capacity and only rudimentary EA
experience in the universities; and a general perception of HA as complicated,
time-consuming, and costly. At the same time, however, the study pointed to a
growing interest in SA within public and private sector agencies and an
eagerness to understand and apply HA procedures. The HA study recommendations
are incorporated in this project component, which proposes a decentralized,
participatory approach to implementing national HA procedures by upgrading
institutional deficiencies through technical assistance and logistical
support.
Legal and Institutional Framework
3. In Chile, public sector (and some private sector) investment projects
undergo financial and economic review within MIDsPLAN at the prefeasibility
stage, but are not generally required to undergo formal EA. An EA regulation,
Reolamento Sobre astudios de Imnacto Ambiental, proposing that all sectoral
ministries be required to carry out EAs on relevant public and private invest-
ment projects, was drafted in 1991. The draft HA Law was prepared by an
interministerial EA working group (HAWG) made up of nine sectoral ministries
and MIDEPLAN and chaired by CONAMA. While the Law has not yet been debated in
Congress, it is expected to go into effect in 1993 as a part of the Basic
Environmental Law. It includes the following provisions that:
(a) HAs will be required for certain newly planned projects, those in
execution (within 18 months of enactment of the Environmental Law), and on
coapleted projects (within 12 months of enactment);
(b) private sector investment projects will also be subject to LAs to be
cleared by the respective sectoral or regional agency within which they
occur;



- 47 -
(c) MIDEPLAN will be required (as per Art. No. 4 of Public Law No. 18.989)
to rev-iew and clear EA studies done for those public and private
investment projects in the national and regional development plans, but
without curtailing the responsibility and authority of the respective
executing agencies;
(d) CONAMA will coordinate EA reviews in all cases where projects involve
more than one national, regional, or municipal authority; and
(e) public participation is assured in the EA process.
4.     Overarching environmental legislation is being drafted in the form of
the "Ley General Sobre Medio Ambiente." This Law should create the Servicio
Nacional de Medio Ambiente and designate CONAMA (and STyA) as the national
executing agency for that Law. Included under this Law is the "Reglamento
Para Estudios de Impacto Ambiental", currently awaiting a decree, but which
will become Law when the Ley General is approved. It is anticipated that by
the end of this project, the Environmental Law and the EA regulation will be
fully operative and that the CONAMA/STyA will have ultimate authority for
environmental management in the country, including the mandate to require,
evaluate, and enforce the proposed mitigating measures of EAs carried out in
all sectors. To achieve this, CONAMA has designed into the project an
intensive EA public awareness component and an EA training program which seeks
to overcome resistance to and obtain cooperation and support for these
measures among all sectoral ministries and agencies.
5.     Even without an EA effective law in place, several sectors such as
mining, fisheries, public works, and forestry currently do apply some measure
of environmental regulation, although often in an A hoc manner and through
special decrees (such as those limiting toxic industrial and mining wastes).
The Ministry of Health (MINSALUD) has little EA capacity and restricts
environmental monitoring to certain sectors only, while the Ministry of
Agriculture (MINAG) has almost no EA capacity. The Marine Affairs Unit of the
Ministry of Defense (DIRECTEMAR) responsible for ports and marine transport
has carried out a number of EAs on port works and marine pollution. All
*sectoral ministries are currently attempting to upgrade their environmental
management.
6.     EA is also making its way into the private sector and many companies
are establishing departments responsible for environmental affairs. For
example, several forestry, energy, and mining companies have hired environ-
mental engineers and managers and are providing environmental training to
their staff. Companies in the sanitary engineering sector are the most
experienced. This expertise will be drawn upon for training within this
project.  The Manufacturing Development Society (SOFOFA) --the national
organization representing private industry--is developing environmental
standards for all industries, and is currently receiving environmental
training with financial support from a German foundation. While consulting
firms are hired for occasional environmental assessments and reviews, they
cannot retain the multidisciplinary teams required for EAs and must resort to
universities for most basic environmental information. NGO capacity in HA is
assessed as extremely weak, although there is considerable enthusiasm for its
development and, thus, for NGO part!.ipation in this effort.



- 48 -
Zipl.m.ntation strategy
7.     Consistent with Chile's commitment to devolve govrnmnt funations and
services to the regions and mulicipalities, this project proposes to decentra-
lize environmental management functions by establiLhing environmental manage-
ment units (Emos) in 9 central and 13 regional government offices. Zn this
manner, each sector will becoma largely self-regulating. The Was till be
responsible for screening investment proposals for environmental ipact, and,
if necessary, carry out  Ao.  Staff assigned to the 33B will receive UA
training through this project. To minimize interagency confusion and
conflicts over EA procedures, the sTyA will work to develop Interagency agree-
ment on these procedures through the public awareness component in this
project. Also within this project, *ach sectoral agency will carry out one
(or more) pilot EA study (ies) - -partly as a training exercise from which to
extract appropriate and acceptable EA techniques and procedures. The greatest
challenges to implementation of the sA project component are the large number
of institutions and sectoral interests i.volved, problems associated with the
decentralized mnvde of environmental management, the extraordinary diversity of
ecosystems in Chile, and the interdisciplinary nature of RA. These factors
are mitigated by the high level of scientific and technical expertise avail-
able in Chile and the keen interest on the part of all participating agencies.
All of these issues underscore the need for close interinstitutional coopera-
tion and the crucial coordinating function of the STyA.
General Objective
S.     The overall objective of the EA component is to support the STyA in
its efforts to introduce EA procedures into the evaluation process for public
and private investment projects in Chile. This will be achieved by equipping
central ministries and regional government offices with the staff and
logistical support to carry out EA. The project will also provide technical
support to carry out EA by private organizations, universities, consulting
groups, and NGOs.
Project Subcomponents and Activities
9.     The EA project component is divided into the following sP1Jccpponents
and activities in support of the overall objectives to:
(a) staff and equip IMUs within the STyA of COMMa, the offices of 9
sectoral ministries and 13 regional environmental offices to be capable of
carrying out and reviewing BAa on public and private sector investment
projects;
(b) promote general understanding and awareness about the puzpose and
application procedures for BA among senior administrative and managerial
staff of public and private institutions through seminars, workshos,e
panels of experts, and training abroad;
(c) create national BA training capacities within universities and/or
other training institutions and NGOs;
(d) provide technical EA training to public and private sector agency
staff who are charged with deciding about, performing, reviewing, nd
implementing EAs;



- 49 -
(C) develop nationally accepted EA criteria and standards;
(f) carry out pilot EA studies as a moans to prepare EA and environmental
quality standards for the energy, mining, forestry, fisheries, urban
transport and industry sectors; and
(g) carry out a number of HAs for small- and medium-sized mining
operations in order to clean up some highly degraded sites, and establish
environmental norms for the subsector.
10.    The above activities are broken down further in the following section.
10.1     Environmental  Manaaement Units (SY):  In this subcomponent
technical HiU will be set up within the STyA and in each of nine central
ministry offices and 13 offices of the regional environmental commissions
(COREMAs), a regional subset of CONAMA. As a result: (a) the STyA will
be equipped and staffed with five additional environmental experts and one
support staff; (b) MIDEPLAN's existing EMU will be strengthened through an
additional two environmental experts and one support staff; (c) the EHms
in each of the nine central ministry offices will be strengthened with one
environmental expert and one support staff, as will the 13 CORMMA offices.
The costs of the additional EA specialists and support staff to be placed
within the COR5MA offices are budgeted under the project component
"institutional Strengthening of CONAMA." EA specialists to be placed in
the STyA and the nine sectoral ministries and MIDEPLAN are budgeted within
the EA project component.
Specific functions of the EMUs will be: (a) to carry out environmental
screening and reviews of proposed investment projects; (b) prepare the
terms of references (TORs) and implement sectoral EAs; (c) collect and
divulge environmental information by sectors; (d) review EAs commissioned
within the sectors and oversee the experts hired to carry them out;
(e) within the project to carry out a pilot EA study from which to develop
national EA guidelines and institutional and regulatory improvements; and
(f) generally to coordinate EA procedures in the respective sectors.
10.2     EA Public Awareness Buildina:  EA is a new, poorly understood
procedure in Chile and for which institutional roles and responsibilities
are not yet clearly defined. This subcomponent will inform and promote
agreement among senior administrative and managerial staff of public and
private sector agencies about the purpose, and means of applying EA to
public and private development projects. Also, through this subcomponent
politicians, academics, private entrepreneurs, technical experts, and
government employees will help to design the EA requirements and
procedures by participating in seminars and workshops and expert panels,
culminating in a national EA conference to be coordinated by STyA. The
purpose of the conference is to arrive at an interinstitutional agreement
on national EA systems and procedures.
Specific supporting activities are: (a) contracting international EA
training experts; (b) arranging public awareness functions within the nine
ministerial and 13 CORIMA offices; (c) assembling expert panels;
(d) reviewing and upgrading existing EA facilities; (e) publishing of
environmental information; (f) preparing EA training manuals for use in 40
EA seminars; and (g) delivery of a national EA conference.



- 50 -
10.3     National CA Trainina Prooiras   In order to establish national HA
training capacity, the STyA will produce an EA training curriculum and
manuals through which universities (and other private training institu-
tions, such as NGOs) will become equippqd to provide training in BA
procedures and methodologies. This will be done through technical NA
courses to be delivered by international and national consultants and
through scholarships for study abroad.
Supporting activities for the component include: (a) preparation of an
inventory of EA experts; (b) preparation of EA training curriculum and
workbooks for use in 10 training events; (c) selection of 5 trainees for
training abroad for a total of 12 months each.
10.4     Public Sector Staff Training:  This subcomponent will train staff
within public sector agencies through EA seminars, workshops and courses
and study abroad. Scholarships are destined for staff within central
agencies and regional offices. Training manuals will be produced by
sector and priority area with the help of national and foreign
consultants.
Supporting activities include: (a) preparation of curricula and manuals
for 15 training events; (b) an inventory/data base of trained public
sector personnel; (c) preparation and publication of seminar and workshop
results as input to EA training manuals in the EA training "centers"
(within universities and/or NGOs) discussed above; and (d) selection of 10
trainees for study abroad--five from central and five from regional
offices.
10.5     National EA Standards:  This subcomponent-addresses the need for
Chile to develop its own national (or adopt international) EA standards
and procedures. In preparing such standards, it is important that broad
agreement is reached within and between sectoral agencies and in the
private sector. Under the guidance of the EAWG, a number of analytical
case studies of completed EAs will be carried out in priority sectors,
starting with the mining sector. The studies will be carried out by
national and international consultants and will lead to criteria for
requiring EAs and for defining the scope, approval procedures, and
mitigating measures.
Supporting activities will include: (a) selection by the EAWG of priority
pilot projects; (b) preparation of terms of reference for the studies and
consultants (international for 2 staffmonths and national for 18 staff-
months); (c) delivery of four seminars; and (d) study and make recommenda-
tions for EA approval procedures and the institutional changes and
upgrading required to implement them.
10.6     Pilot HA Studies:  In this component, several sectoral EAs will
be carried out under the guidance of the STyA and according to the
procedures proposed in the draft EA Law. The objective is to give
government officials applied EA experience, test institutional strengths
and weaknesses, and propose improvements. Additional benefits will be the
resulting sectoral EA guidelines and environmental quality standards drawn
from experience. Each EAWG member agency will appoint an EA manager to
coordinate the procedure with STyA.



- S1 -
Anticipated results from this exercise are hands on experience with IA; IA
guidelines and methodologies by sector; applicable environmental quality
indicators by soctor; technical and professioal teams and support groups
for future work in the area; and improved intermiaisterial collaboration.
supporting activities will: (a) identify pilot projects; (b) distribute
tanks and TORe for the LA studies and for the consultants; (c) prepare EA
guidelines and monitor NA systems; and (d) contract 19 staffmonths of
international and 60 staffmonths of national consultant services.
10.7     Sl and Mdium-Eized  inina Sector: mining is a very
important economic activity in Chile. It is also highly polluting,
particularly in some of the smaller mining operations. Large-scale, and
frequently foreign, mining operations are generally more advanced and have
applied RA for some time in a relatively satisfactory fashion. This
project subcomponent concentrates on upgrading eavironmental standards for
small- and medium-isxed mining operations. As will be carried out on
ome 10 mall- and medium-sised-gold-mining operations and on cleaning up
the severely polluted say and City of Chaflaral. The EAs will be managed
by the Ministry of Mines (MNIMZN), 3mpresa Nacional de Mineria (ENAMI) and
the lociedad Vacional de Mineria (SOAM!), with technical assistance from
the STyA and SAO. The LAs will result improved local air and. water
quality at the mine sites and in improved mine operations standards for
application in the sector as a whole.
Supporting activities fo. -his component include:  (a) selection of 10
target-mining operations; (b) preparation of EA methodology for applica-
tion to the small-mine subsector; and (c) implementation of environmental
mitigation plans and measures at the most polluted mine sites.
Coordliation
11.    With the emergence of on institutional infrastructure for
environmental management, interagency competition is easily aroused. In order
to *ddre s the institutional problems and to build support and acceptance of
*A procedures in all sectors, the STyA assembled the &AWG made up of nine
sectoral ministries and MIDIPLAN. The group's first tasks included the
drafting of the national EA Law described above and guiding the EA diagnostic
study carried out as part of the project planning. The EAWG will need to
reain operational fog' the duration of the project as a forum to discuss EA
Issues, advlie STyA on the implementation of all EA programs, and participate
in developing and evaluating national SA procedures. LAWG members will
continue to act as liaison between the STyA and each respective member
mdnistry, and sTA will continue to chair the HAWG, providing continuity and
resolving interainisterial disputes should they arise.



Section C.3: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
A. Training in Environmental Management in t1he Public Sector
Justification
1.     Environmental and natural resource management is a new concept in
Chile. In the public sector there is a lack of adequately trained profession-
als who understand the interaction between economic development, natural
resource conservation, and environmental protection. Problems affecting the
sector are amplified, and are often the direct result of constraints in the
sector training system. Training activities in the environmental sector have
not yet been formally organized; although managers and professionals of sector
and related institutions occasionally participate in a course or seminar in
natural resource conservation and environmental protection. To help sector
institutions in correcting these deficiencies, important training elements are
included in the proposed project.
Objectives
2.     The main objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the perform-
ance capabilities of public sector personnel involved in managing environ-
mental activities. Specifically, the subcomponent aims at: (a) establishing
the Environmental Training Unit (ETU) within CONAMA's organization; (b) imple-
menting a 1992-93 pilot training program in environmental management for about
600 participants; (c) implementing a training needs assessment in the public
sector; (d) executing an inventory of the p,rograms being offered and educa-
tional institutions that have the potential to organize training programs in
environmental and natural resources management; (e) implementing a national
1993-97 training program in environmental and natural resources mansgement for
about 3,000 participants; and (f) providing assistance to training units or
programs t% be implemented in sectoral ministries and Government agencies.
Table 1 of this Annex shows the number of personnel to be trained during the
period 1993-97 by type of intervention, sector, and subject.
Description
3.     The environmental sector management training program has been out-
lined in the context of the STyA institutional development objectives pursued
by the project. This training program would include: (a) hiring of three
local technical staff for about 170 staffmonths; (b) providing about 42 staff-
months of consultant se'rvices; (c) production and distribution of specific
educational material (videos, printed material, brochures, and books);
(d) providing teaching equipment and material; (e) structuring and coordi-
nating 47 courses, 47 seminars, and 21 workshops on environmental and natural
resources management to be implemented by universities and private training
organizations; (f) providing study visits and fellowships abroad for about 75
professionals; (g) providing per diem, transportation, and fees for about 20
instructors; (h) providing per diem and transportation for about 20
instructors and 1,200 participants; and (i) implementing three studies in
training needs assessment, evaluation of the impact of the training programs,
and occupational analysis to define the content of the training programs.



- 53
Organization and Zmpleaentation
4.     An Environmontal Training Unit (STU) will be created within the new
organixation of STyA (see Annex C, Chart 3.3, STyA organizational chart) with
responsibility for organizing and implementing the project's human resources
development subcomponent. To manage the training program, a full-time
coordinator will be appointed under the Directorate of Coordination and
Development. Specific function of the ETU are to: (a) coordinate, plan, and
monitor the inplementation of training policies, strategies, and program ;
(b) identify and establish agreements with universities and private training
organizations; (c) administer local and foreign technical assistance for
training as well as the training program abroad; (d) coordinate the
acquisition and the preparation of learning materials; (e) promote the
application of modern training methodologies; (f) implement training needs
assessments and the corresponding occupational analysis as a basis for
preparing syllabi for different training courses; (g) design and implement an
evaluation and monitoring system to assess the results of the training
program; and (h) prepare quarterly progress reports on the implementation of
the training program. Environmental Launagement training courses will be
contracted with management training institutes of experienced Chilean
universities and private training agencies, and assisted by foreign
consultants.
B. nvironmental Zducation
Justification
5.     In Chile (as elsewhere) there is a general lack of environmental
knowledge. For the majority-of the population the need for environmental
protection is still unclear. Environmental education for the general public
outside the formal education system is essential to the formation of public
awareness about the social and economic implications of air pollution, river
poisoning, land degradation, and deforestation.
Objectives
6.     This subcomponent would support environmental education for the
general public outside the formal education system. It would include:
(a) the creation of an Environmental Documentation Unit; (b) the development
of methodologies, teaching, and audio-visual material; and (c) the implementa-
tion of training courses for 1,320 community leaders and training-sensitivity
workshops for about 11,700 people to increase public awareness of environ-
mental issues.
Description
7,     The project would finance:  (a) three local technical staff for about
170 staffmonths; (b) about 120 staffmonths of local consultant services;
(c) production and distribution of specific educational material (6 videos,
printed material, brochures, and books); (d) teaching equipment and materials;
Ce) structuring and implementing about 33 courses of 60-hour-duration for
local instructors; (f) structuring and coordinating about 300 workshops of
eight-hour duration on environmental education to be implemented by NGOs and
the formal education system, cultural, and private sports; (g) per diem,
transportation, and fees for about 1,320 community leaders; and (h) meals for
about 11,700 participants.



54
Ozganisation and Zmplemnt.ation
8.     The environmental education will be coordinated by the ENu (Para. 4).
The 3TU will compile and promote the production of educational matorial among
Noo private institutions and community-based organixations. The TU will
prepare methodological guidelines for the development of workshops and
treatment of environmental questions. Audiovisual material especially
designed for the adult population would be developed with the assistance of
local consultants. At the regional level, part-time coordinators from
community based organizations would be appointed. Specific workshops to
promote and disseminate environmental knowledge will be implemented at the
cowmunity level using instructors selected and trained from cultural,
recreational, and sporting organizations.



- 55 -
Table C.3.1: ENVIRONMENTAL AND NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM: tUtER OF PERSONNEL
TO BE TRAINED, 1993-97
l ___________________________                         LEV'EL              *______________            _  _  ___L V
TYPE OF TRAINING                  BASIC                    UPGRADING                    TOTAL
Courses                                          1,316                        603                      1 919
Seminars                                           820                        375                      1.195
Workshops                                            .0                       470                        470
Total                                 2,136                      1,448                      3,584
Table C.3.2:  NtMNER OF PERSONNEL TO BE TRAINED BY YEAR, 1993-97
AREAS                           1993      1994     1995     1996      1997     TOTAL
Environment Natural Resources Management                   65      160      160      160       130       675
Environment and Technotogical Development                  40      140      140      140       100        560
Environment Economic Development                           55      165      120      165       165        670
Environment and Health                                     40      120      120      120       1.20       520
Environment. Housing, and Human Settlement                 50      140      105      140       100        535
Management of Solid Waste and Industrial Pollution         40      100      100       100       70        410
Environment and Energy                                     20       54       50       50        40        214
Total                             310       879      795      875       725     3,584
Table C.3.3:  IURER OF PERSONNEL TO BE TRAINED BY SUBCONPONENTS AND SECTORAL ACTIVITIES, 1993-97
SUBCOMPONENT/SECTOR                     1993     1994     1995     1996      1997      TOTAL
Legislation                                              570         0       0         0         0        570
Environmental Assessment                                  450      500        0        0         0        950
Environmentat Education                                     0      200      400      400       320      1,320
Information System                                         0         3       3         3         3         12
Economic Analysis                                           0      120        0        0         0        120
Forestry                                                   0         0       0        72         0         72
Industrial PolLution                                     100        20      20        40        20        200
Mining                                                     30        0        0        0         0         30
TOTAL                                                   1,150      843     423       515       343      3.274



- 56 -
Section C.4: ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
1.     Over the past few years, Chilean society has become increasingly aware
end sensitized to environmental concerns. The result-of this increased
environmental consciousness has forced government decision-makers to provide
information, studies, and evaluation of both the manner and extent to which
the environment will be affected by new development projects and/or construc-
tion. Public opinion and nongovernmental organizations are increasingly pre-
occupied with the effects of development programs on air, water, and soil
pollution as well as the current status of renewable natural resources
throughout the country.
2.     The increased knowledge of the processes of global warming and
parallel environmental changes caused by inversion effects along with the
access to scientific data on the deterioration of the ozone layer in
Antarctica have generated public awareness of the fragility of the environ-
ment. These concerns have fueled demands that government must both accept
more responsibility and in parallel develop capacity to predict the effects of
environmental change both across different economic sectors and in the quality
of life in Chile.
3.     The objectives of the Environmental Institutions Development Project
are to:
(a) strengthen sectoral policies, strategies, and plans for management of
environmental pollution and natural resources;
(b) establish an institutional framework to plan, *coordinate, and
implement environmental protecticn and natural resources management
activities; and
(c) support priority sectors involved in environmental protection and
natural resources management activities.
Proper sustainable resource management requires accurate, timelv, and sharply
focused information to allow an analysis of alternative policies and changes
in reso'urce management. Sectoral ministries have a mandate to monitor their
sector, e.g., mining, fisheries, forestry; however, the approach followed in
the past was largely production oriented rather than focused on conservation
and protection of the resource base. Data bases exist in most sectoral
institutions, but have been primarily oriented towards the generation of
statistical information and not necessarily towards the resolution of
environmental problems.
4.     Information in an Environmental Context.  An environmental information
system must produce information that satisfies user needs. It must distin-
guish between what is required knowledge for the purposes of planning,
monitoring, and surveying environmental pollution of the elements of the
natural resource base and what is merely "interesting." This is sometimes
referred to as "the need to know versus the nice to knowl" The list of
possible elements and attributes that may be recorded within any environmental
information system is endless. If for any given item the question of "where
is it?" can be asked, then it becomes a candidate for inclusion in the
information system. If the location is ephemeral, then it can be ignored; if



-57 
it is semi-permanent, then the next question is how often is the locational
attribute required and how often does it change. Archives of data collected
for posterity rather than present decision-making may Verve the needs of the
historian and may be justified on that basis alone. However, both these and
items of pure scientific interest are difficult to evaluate in cost/benefit
terMs.
S.     one critical test for determining whether or not to include any
category of data in the information system is whether the user (CONAMA or a
oectoral ministry) is prepared to pay the price for gathering, storing, and
updating it. The market for information does not, however, operate in a
simple way, especially where government-held information. The distinction
between the "need to know" and the "nice to know" is not always clear.
Undoubtedly, the greater the use to which the information is put the greater
will be the benefits even though it may be impossible to quantify these
benefits. Some information may be rarely used, but nonetheless worth holding
within the environmental information system so that it is available at short
notice when required.
6.     Items For Possible Inclusion within an gnvironmental Information
System. The environmental information system will contain a core set of data
related to land tenure and value, and key additional data can be referenced to
specific geographical locations.
Land Rights and User Restrictions
7.     The restrictions on development and use of the land should be
incorporated within the system design.  The rights to surface materials and
subsurface materials such as minerals and hydrocarbons should be included.
These land rights might lie with either private individuals, organizations, or
the State. Regardless of ownership, the extent and limits of land rights
should be defined and recorded.
Rural and Urban Land Use
S.     The administration of land is primarily concerned with controlling its
use. The ultimate objective is to maximize the economic benefits that can be
gained from the land. Land use information is, therefore, desirable. In
practice, however, specific land use records throughout the world are usually
poor or nonexistent. Information is needed when changes in land use are
planned or proposed, for such changes might need environmental impact state-
ments, e.g., to expand housing units or to provide disposal sites of sanitary
waste.
Population and Census Data
9.     Census data is generally collected every 10 years. The land parcel
can form the basic spatial unit for recording and locating census data.
Administrative Boundaries
10.    The administrative boundaries define political subdivisions, planning
zones, and affect all land parcels. These administrative boundaries are
traditionally depicted on maps as a series of lines. In a computerized
information system, this data can be stored in a format that can easily
determine the administrative region upon inquiry.



* 58 -
Antiguities/Cultural Property
11.    Cultural property and antiquities might require special protection and
should be cross-referenced within the system.
Additional Itemu That Can So Linked to an Znviroamental information System
12.    There are many other types of land data that can be linked to the
environmental information system through mapping overlays, or by reference to
geodetic coordinates. These types of data are detailed below.
Topography
13.    Developments in digital mapping and the extension of national geodetic
survey control systems are helping reduce the disparity between the topo-
graphic data, e.g., elevation, slope, and land contours, and "thematic" map
data.
Geological and Geophysical Data
14.    Geological and geophysical data should be incorporated into the data
base for environmental risk assessment or for analysis of the most
environmentally cost-effective methods of site exploitation.
Soils
15.    Maps of soil types and land capability based on soil types can be
produced and incorporated into the environmental information system. Although
a knowledge of land potential will not necessarily prevent the conversion of
agriculturally productive land to residential or industrial uses, it will
reduce its abuse. In addition, this information can provide a framework for
monitoring soil erosion.
Vegetation
16.    Forests.  The most recent inventory of native forests in Chile was
carried out almost SO years ago. The proposed forestry and vegetation cover
cadastre (see Annex D, Section 4.1) will provide the first uniform and up-to-
date data base on native forestry since 1947 and will be used to assess the
rate of forest change and trends throughout Chile.
17.    Other Vegetation.  The plantation forests, primarily pine and
eucalyptus species, and other native vegetation types can be more effectively
monitored when uniform baseline data is available.
Conservation/Protected Areas
1B.    National parks, biological reserves, national forests and other
conservation and/or protected areas can be both more effectively monitored for
environmental change, but also should be tied to land parcels, since their
mere existence affects any site development. Many conservation/protected
areas have boundaries marked on maps but one not physically demarcated on the
ground. This lack of physical demarcation severely limits protection of these
areas.



5 59 -
Wildlife
19.    Wildlife refuges, nature reserves, and national.parks harbor a variety
of wildlife species. The conditions governing their protection are
essentially restrictions on the rights of people to use the land and are an
integral component of an environmental information system.
Hydrology
20.    Water is essential for human survival.  Fresh water is used for human
consumption, irrigation, domestic, and industrial uses. Each specific use,
however, might well be subject to separate sets of water rights. The sources
of water need to be identified and the rights of access to and use of these
waters need to be controlled. The locations of springs, wells, and boreholes
should be mapped and records maintained of the depth of the water table.
21.    Riparian rights, which allow owners to draw water from streams, rivers
and channels, normally are subject to well-defined controls through statutory
or customary law, as are the rights to fish and navigate on the water. The
discharge of industrial and/or toxic wastes into watercourses mandate that
this data be incorporated in an environmental monitoring program for the
administration of appropriate controls.
Climate/Meteorology
22.    Although weather records are not normally incorporated in an environ-
mental information system, the location of meteorological stations and
specific climatological data can be extremely useful in industrial citing and
pollution abatement.
Pollution, Health and Safety
23.    Pollution is covered in considerably more detail in other annexes of
the Environmental Institutions Development Project. Reference has already
been made to soil, water and air pollution. The boundaries of smoke control
zones, for example, should be incorporated in the environmental information
system so that all affected landowners would know about any restrictions on
the use of particular types of fuel. In addition, if certain geographical
areas are subject to specific or special health and safety regulations, the
area of impact should be entered into the ,ystem.
24.    The impact of development on the environment has become a subject of
international debate, and environmental impact statements are addressed in
Annex C, Section 3.2.
Tranapo?t
25.    Transportation corridors, e.g., highways, roads and railroads,
represent sets of rights of ways that are subject to laws, planning
restrictions and governmental regulations. These networks are integral parts
of land management and administration and should be incorporated into the
information system.



- 60
Water and Sewerage
26.    Water and waste disposal are items of major importance, especially in
urban environments. The availability of existing water and sewage facilities
will have a major influence on the shape, size, and pace of development. The
location of these buried utilities are critical--how far below the surface are
they located, how old and in what condition are the pipes, what is the carry-
ing capacity, where is access to the network and where are the discharge
points. All these items are extremely important data sets in determining
point source pollution and control.
Quality of Information
27.    The categories of data referred to above indicate a range of topics
that should be included in any proposed environmental information system. The
data categories can certainly be expanded and should be modified in discus-
sions of final system design. In developing an environmental information
system, the data must have a number of characteristics other than the
connection to a specific location on the earth's surface. These charac-
teristics include:
(a) Currency. The data must be easilv accessible in an up-to-date format
within a time frame acceptable to the user.
(b) Precision. The data must provide information about the established
environmental control/health standards that are required.  Sewage or water
discharge pipes, for instance, must be precisely located and referenced to
map coordinates.
(c) Accura . There must be little or no error in the information
extracted from the data.
(d) Verifiability. Different users (e.g., sector ministries or CONAMA)
should be able to get the same answer to the same question.
(e) Clarity. The information must be free from ambiguity.
(f) Ouantifiability. Where appropriate numerical information should be
obtainable.
(g) Accessibility. It should be possible to extract information easily
and quickly.
(h) Freedom from bias. There should be no alteration or modification of
the raw data to influence those who receive them.
(i) Comprehensiveness. The data should be complete in spatial coverage
and context. Financial constraints may limit the scope and priorities
should be established and data coverage completed first in high-priority
areas.
(j) Aporooriateness. The information derived from the data should relate
to the users' requirements, i.e., CONAMA or the sectoral ministries.



-61 -
28.    An internationally recruited consultant will be contracted to complete
the final design of an environmental information system. The draft TORe for
this design task were reviowed by the Bank during the appraisal mission in
late June 1992.
29.    The environmental information system design would be implemented and
tested under a one-year pilot program in three different regions to determine
whether it actually improves the flow of environmental data for docision-
making. The pilot program would be implemented in: (a) Region V, Valparaiso;
(b) Region VIII, Concepcion; and (c) Region X, Puerto Montt. An eS&=o
evaluation would be carried out of the environmental information design and
the pilot program to determine the final program priorities for the various
phases of implementation of the system into other regions, and to identify
equipment requirements in each region.
30.    The project would finance:  (a) 3 technical staff; (b) about 30 staff-
months of local consultants, and 4 staffmonths of foreign consultants for the
design of an environmental information system to improve the flow of environ-
mental data for decision-making to CONAMk; and (c) a basic workstation for the
proposed environmental information aystem, which would include a PC with a
minimum XT-386 capacity and a facsimile machine initially to improve
interregional communications between CONANA and the pilot program offices.



- 62 -
Annex D: CHILE - PRIORITY SECTORS NNG&GED IN ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITXS
Section D.1: MANAGEEMNT OF NATIVE P9RZSTS
Forestry Sector Overview
1.     Forestry has been one of the more vigorous subsectors of the Chilean
economy over the past 15 years, vying with fresh fruit for importance in
exports after copper.9/ The driving force for subsector growth has been
favorable agroclimatic conditions and investment opportunities. Excellent
growing conditions have enabled Chile to be one of the lowest-cost wood
producers in the world, giving it a significant competitive advantage in most
forest products. Investments in the subsector have been stimulated by a
program of direct public subsidies for commercial afforestation (Law 701).
This has fostered the establishment of over 1.0 million ha of high-yield
plantations since 1974 (Table 1). Chile's growing exportable surplus earned
about US$855 million in 1990, up from US$127 million in 1974 when the
Government started the subsidy program.
2.     The role of the public sector in forestry development was reduced
significantly in the mid-1970s when most publicly-owned plantations were
divested and public policies were reoriented to foster private sector
initiatives. Chile's emphasis on private sector development indeed produced a
highly prcfitable and rapidly growing subsector. At the same time, however,
public agencies were weakened by severe budget cuts and important activities
which the private sector alone could not address were neglected. These
included management of native forest areas; watershed management; forest fire
control; and administration of national parks and other reserves. The
Government is now turning its focus on these neglected areas through policy
reform and strengthening of public sector agencies.
3.     There are two principal forestry public sector institutions in Chile.
CO NA, the National Corporation for Forests and Renewable Natural Resources,
is Chile's principal forestry development and conservation institution. Its
responsibilities include:  (a) afforestation on government and private
lands;10/ (b) administration of the subsidy prograi for financing commercial
afforestation (Law 701); (c) forest fire prevention and control; (d) manage-
ment of national parks, national forests and other reserves; and
(e) strategic planning and policy formulation for the subsector. INFOR, the
National Forestry Institute, is responsible for forestry research and
development as well as collecting and disseminating forestry sector
statistics.
l/   See Chile - Sustainina Growth:  An Agricultural Sector Review (Green Cover
Report No. 8759-CH), June 29, 1990.  That report includes a comprehensive
annex on the forestry sector.
10/ Under the previous government, this was largely an effort to generate
employment in poor rural areas. All comme;:cial planting is now considered a
private sector responsibility and CONAF is not expected to engage in this
activity on any significant scale in the near future. Any new planting by
CONAF is expected to be chiefly for protection purposes.



- 63 -
Issues in Native Forest Xanagement
4.     In recent years, tension has emerged between a.growing conserva-
tionist movement in Chile, which would closely circumscribe the use of native
forest resources; potential private sector investors, who seek a minimum of
government intervention; and those in the public and private sectors who
believe that the resource base can be managed in an environmentally sound
manner. Inadequate data on the resource base, lack of economic and financial
analysis, and the weakness of the sector institutions have hampered debate on
these issues. Nonetheless, the government is moving ahead to reach consensus
on a guiding policy and legal framework, and to strengthen sector institutions
to carry out their mandate in a more responsible manner.
s.     Over the last few years, Chile's native forests (which are estimated
to cover over 7.6 million ha) have assumed particular prominence in the
production and export of forest products, chiefly in the form of wood chips
for the Japanese market. Chip production from woods had virtually no
commercial significance as recently as 1986. Unfortunately, CONAF had
virtually no resources to ensure that proper harvesting methods were applied.
This lack of CONAF control led to the clear-cutting of native stands by
private contractors and the chipping of material which could produce wood
products of much higher value, including sawtimber and furniture, parts. Even
though these native forests are remarkably resilient (they were largely clear-
cut 50 years ago to supply fuelwood and local construction wood), their
productivity under current treatment is far lower than could be achieved with
proper management.
6.     More important than the loss of productivity, however, are the
potential soil losses and the problems associate with erosion. The soils on
which these native forests are situated are generally fragile (composed of
sandy, volcanic ash) and are also highly erodible. Poor road-building
techniques and clear-cutting of the forests, therefore, could lead to serious
problem. The city of Punta Arenas, in fact, was subject to severe flooding in
the 1940s when the forests protecting its watersheds were clear-cut to provide
fuelwood for the ships passing through the Strait of Magellan. To this day,
considerable resources are being invested by CONAF in a nearly futile effort
to reduce erosion caused by torrential streamflows within those watersheds,
which still bear the scars of irresponsible management.
7.     The 1990 Agricultural Sector Report1l/ and Bank preparation missions
recommended that the government establish clear guidelines for native forest
management and protection. Recommendations included:
(a) Refinina Native Forest Manaaement Technioues. The technology
necessary to manage native forests for sustained timber production should
continue to be researched and refined. The government should determine
cost-effective ways to finance native forest management at least until the
practice can be shown to be technically and financially viable. It was
recommended that the forest subsidy program be extended to provide as
11/ Chile - Sustaining Growth: An Aaricultural Sector Review (Green Cover Report
No. 8759-CH), June 29, 1990.



- 64
incentives, increased subsidies for planting native specios and other
approved exotic species, since planting costs of these species are
generally higher;
(b) Strenatheninc Government' s role in implementing rational management
activities in native and other forest types. The Government should ensure
satisfactory budgeting of sector institutions which would allow them to
carry out their mandate. It was recommended that the government implement
a special levy on subsector beneficiaries of public services in the areas
of forestry development and conservation.
(c) Izwrovinq Monitorina of Mlforestatio  as needed to ensure that laws
are being followed, especially with respect to replacement of native
forests by plantations. Improved knowledge of the resource base is
essential, sinice the last comprehensive forest survey was conducted in
1947. Creation of a data system which would be used for monitoring and
supervision would also be important. A clear definition of what
constitutes a productive native forest and, therefore, one which should
remain in that forest type, is also needed.
Government Strategy
S.     The Government is moving ahead on all these fronts. A draft Native
Forest Law was presented to Congress in April 1992. The Law provides for
extension of the subsidy program to the native forest sector. Concerns have
been raised regarding the lack of economic, technical, and financial analysis
needed to underpin the Law. The alternative of directing subsidy to manage-
ment of parks and protected preserves should also have been considered. A
better approach would have been to carry out the studies and research
(provided for under the Law) prior to going ahead. Xt could be argued that
def,.$tion of the legal framework is premature since basic work on defining
and characterizing the resource base has not been carried out. Nevertheless,
pressures from all sides to provide a policy and legal framework were
compelling, resulting in the current solution.
9.     Recognizing that CONAF required strengthening to permit it to carry
out its heretofore neglected functions (para. 2), in the 1992 Budget Law
Congress approved the institution of user fees. These will be levied upon
investors at the time of submission of management plans for CONAF's approval.
In addition, an institutional development program for COMAF is being developed
with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDS), in the context of a proposed
watershed management program. This should help ensure effective use of these
additional resources. The proposed Bank project would focus on providing
improved information and analytical tools for native forest management, which
would complement these efforts.
Component Objectives
10.    The objectives of the component are to improve the quality of
management and conservation of Chile's native forests by: (a) improving the
information base for policymaking and for monitoring and supervision; and
(b) developing environmental assessment guidelines in support of the Native
Forest Law.



- 65 -
Description of the Component
11.    This section describes two component activities.:  (a) carrying out of
a forest and natural vegetation cadastre; (b) implementing systems which will
be used in monitoring and supervision of native forests; and (c) carrying out
an institutional study to update CONAF organization in order to keep up-to-
date the natural vegetation cadastre. The project includes US$100,000 for
this activity. The third, the development of environmental assessment
guidelines, is an integral part of the project's Environmental Assessment
Component outlined in (Annex C).
12.    Forest and Vegetation Cover Cadastre.  This would entail a survey,
which would be national in scope, covering native forests, plantations and
other vegetation formations. The national scope of the inventory is the most
cost effective means to acquire the information needed given the number of
potentials uses besides native forest management, such as watershed manage-
ment. The last national inventory was carried out in 1947. The survey will
result in: (a) the preparation of land use maps which locate and classify
forests in terms of their species mix and relative productive potential;
(b) the determination of the degree of forest modification or degradation;
(c) the identification of potential "conservation districts"; and (d) the
development of a data base of forest information. The inventory will be
carried out on the basis of aerial photography. Maps for Regions I through IV
will be completed at a scale of 1:250,000 and for Regions V through XII at a
scale of 1:50,003. In addition, maps of all areas within the National System
of Protected Areas (SNASPE) will be presented at a scale of 1:50,000.
13.    The cadastre would be carried out by consultants under CONAF's
supervision. This component includes aerial photography, preparation of an
inventory and evaluation of the resource base. Terms of reference and bidding
documents were submitted to the Bank for review at appraisal. The loan would
finance the consulting contracts and certain supervision costs, which include
photo interpretation, vehicles, and about 9 staffmonths of technical
assistance. This component would be carried out over a period of about 24
months.
14.    Monitoring and Supervision System. This subcomponent would build upon
the national cadastre, and create a permanent system for updating the national
Forestry/Vegetation data base. This GIS would allow CONAF to process and
interpret satellite imagery as needed to support both policy studies, and
approval and supervision of forest management plans. A Central Unit would be
established in Santiago, as well as four auxiliary work units in the Regions.
The loan would finance services of international experts to design and help
implement the system, including procurement of equipment, software, and base
satellite images, and training. The system would be designed and implemented
in the project's third, '.ourth, and fifth years.



- 66 -
Section D. 2: DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL STRATZGIES
1.     Pollution in Chile is mostly site-specific.  Pollution is generated by
urbanization in the Central Region where contamination associated with human
waste in the rivers and coasts caused by the discharge of untreated sewage
from Santiago and Valparaiso is perhaps the most serious problem. The highest
profile problem in Chile remains the serious levels of air pollution in
Santiago. Finally, site-specific air, water and soil pollution is associated
with the mining, fishmeal, pulp and paper, and energy industries. The
following provides a brief description of major pollution "hot-spots." The
issues surrounding industrial pollution are then discussed, followed by
details of the proposed industrial pollution control component's objectives
and description.
An Overview
2.     Water Pollution in the Central Regions.  Rivers running through
Santiago and the coastal areas of the Fifth Region are being contaminated by
the dumping of untreated sewage into open water courses, with consequent
effects on the population's health. The Santiago Metropolitan Region has over
90 percent coverage of potable water and sewerage infrastructure. Untreated
sewage effluent are discharged into the Mapocho river, and an old open sewage
canal, the Zanjon de la Aguada which runs directly through central Santiago.
In summer months, agricultural plots around Santiago draw on water from these
sources for irrigation of crops, including vegetables and fruits for raw
consumption. This has been associated with typhoid and, more recencly, with
the outbreak of cholera which is plaguing other parts of Latin America.
Emergency measures to control the use of contaminated water for irrigation
have had a positive impact, but a more sustainable solution is needed. A Bank
loan (2651-CH) approved in 1986, provides for the first stage of sewage
disposal and treatment facilities, which was intended to provide a partial
solution to the water contamination problems of Santiago. Several proposals
for large-scale investment by the p,-ivate sector in sewage treatment are under
consideration.
3.     Along the Valparaiso coast, where another 10 percent of the population
live (a share greatly expanded in summertime), untreated sewage is discharged
into the ocean. It contaminates local beaches to levels that have required
their closure. The rivers bearing sewage from Santiago and other urban
centers of the Region, as well as local industrial discharges add to the
localized contamination of the sea. The ongoing Second Valparaiso Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 3331-CH), approved in FY91, is intended to
improve the sewerage system, using an environmentally acceptable marine sewage
disposal system.
4.     Air Pollution in Santiago.  Santiago's serious air pollution problems
are well known. Santiago is located in a basin where prevailing winds help
create a thermal inversion. Thiu limits the dispersion of emissions from
traffic and industry. The biggest threat to health comes from fine
particulate matter (PM 10) that damages lungs. In winter, air quality reaches
"critical levels" as often as one day in six, and normal PM 10 standards are
violated daily. Studies, carried out with the assistance of the IDB,
determined that the main source of the problem is dust particulate from eroded
hillsides and unpaved streets which serve as points of concentration for
traffic emissions. Increased traffic congestion, which emerged when bus



- 67 -
transport was deregulated In the early 1970s, has contributed to the problem.
Finally, contamination from the 31 Teniente smelter and other industrial
sources is a contributing factor.
5.     A Special Commission for the Decontamination of the Metropolitan
Region (C3DRM) was established to confront this issue. 12/ Several initia-
tives have been launched. In early 1991, Chile banned 2,600 buses with pre-
1972 engines (constituting one-fifth of the whole bus fleet). This led to a
fall in the number of wintor days with critical-level pollution from 33 in
1990 to 21 in 1991 (higher rainfall was also a contributing factor). An
auction-cum-allocation package has been introduced for bus operators. It
introduces higher emissions standards for new buses, and limits the kinds of
buses that operate on downtown routes; allocates bus-transit rights; and
auctions routes. These reforms have helped speed up transit time, reduce
congestion and pollution, and bring down fares. The street paving component
of the ongoing Urban Transportation Loan (3028-CH), approved in FY89 will
complement these efforts by reducing dust. Industrial pollution sources are
being addressed by the introduction of a system of transferable pollution
permits for industries in the Santiago basin. This innovation is at an early
stage of implementation.
6.     Mining PollutLon.  Pollution from the mining sector is the most
significant source of industrial contamination in Chile.  Pollution is most
closely associated with state mining enterprises. Sulfur dioxide and arsenic
contamination at smelter sites (especially CODELCO's Chuquicamata and ENAMI's
Ventanas facilities) is a serious issue with labor and nearby residents.
Discharge of tailings into the Rio Salado by CODELCO's Salvador copper mining
installations seriously damaged flora and fauna around the coastal areas of
Chanaral.13/ Large scale private sector mining investment, which is the
source of most sectoral growth, appears to be less problemat:.c. Foreign
investors have tended to import technologies which meet environmental
standards of the parent organization's home country. Finally, the extent and
impact of effluent generated by small-scale mining, while unknown, is a
potential source of concern.
7.     Efforts to address mining pollution problems began in the late 1980.
and were concentrated on the Government-held mining concerns. Both CODELCO
and ENAMI undertook efforts to reduce emissions through construction or expan-
sion of sulfuric acid plants. These investment programs are underway. Little
progress has been made, however, in setting the overall environmental regula-
tory framework which would govern both private and public sector activities.
The Knvironmental Unit of the Ministry of Mines, established in 1989, has
2/ fThe Commission is also charged with coordinating efforts to address water
pollution problems in Santiago. Progress has been slow.
T/ his problem was the source of the first case of environmer'al litigation in
chile. CODELCO was ordered by the courts to cease discharge of tailings, and
carried out the required investments. The feasibility of clean-up of the
Chanaral area will be evaluated under the pilot environ-mental assessment
program supported by the project.



- 68 -
begun to advance in this area. As a first step, it led negotiations between
the Government and industry on a air quality standards for S02, arsenic and
particulates (Decreto Supremo No. 185). The proposed project seeks to support
continuation of immediate initiatives such as this, while laying the founda-
tion for an overall industrial pollution control strategy (para. 12).
8.     Other Sources of Industrial Pollution.  Fish processing industries in
the north and south also pollute air--mostly producing a foul smell rather
than health-damaging contamination. In the south, pulp mills in Constitution
and Concepcion/Talcahuano discharge dioxin and heavy metals into estuaries.
Petroleum refining and methanol production also take place in Concepcion as
well as in the Valparaiso area. Finally, little is known about the extent of
industrial/hazardous solid waste.
Issues
9.     Ad hoc nature of activities to date.  Ccncern about industrial
pollution in Chile is relatively new. Analysis and policy making have been
hampered by lack of information and by conflicting institutional responsibi-
lities. As should be expected, the initial debate and Cefinition of actions
centered around the most visible sources of contamination--notorious problems
associated with the state-held mining concerns, and the well-known problems of
air pollution in Santiago. Solutions in the mining sector to date have
focused on eliminatinc existing sources of air contamination (para. 7). In
Santiago, a transfer<.ble pollution rights approach is being taken to meet the
issue of fixed-source pollution. While implementation is incipient, it is
expected to provide a testing ground for development of national pollution
control strategies. While tackling these "hot spots" first was an appropriate
response, it is clear that this approach has only provided a limited forum for
debate. Consensus on the objectives, policy instruments, and institutional
responsibilities has not yet emerged.
10.    Poor information base.  Except for the Santiago Region, where an
important set of basic studies was carried out with the assistance of the IDB,
information on the source and impact of industrial pollution is poor. A water
pollution inventory is currently being carried out by the Superintendencia de
Servicios Sanitarios (SSS). The proposed project would supplement this with
air and hazardous waste inventories in selected Regions (para. 13).
11.    Lack of clear institutional responsibility and capacity for policy-
making, norms, monitoring and control. Responsibility is diffuse. For Eater
lpq.iution, several institutions have overlapping responsibilities. These
include the Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios (SSS) responsible for
water quality monitoring; the Ministry of Health and its regional services,
responsible for setting standards; the Servicio Agricola y Ganadero, the
Ministry of Public Works (MOP), through its Direccion General de Aguas, and
the Directorate del Territorio Maritimo. Attempts by CEDRM to coordinate
these actors in Santiago have hit numerous roadblocks. More progress has been
made in the area of air collution. The CEDRM successfully negotiated a Decree
which provides the policy framework for a transferable pollution rights
approach. Entities involved included the STyA of CONAMA, the Ministry of
Economy, the Ministry of M4ines and the Ministry of Health. This Decree
(No. 04/92) was subsequently signed by the Ministry of Health in January 1992.
This was complemented by the Ministry of Mines Decree No. 185/92 on S02
standards. That Decree gives responsibility for administering matters
regarding air quality to a subcommittee of CONA14A, made up of the Ministers of



69 -
Mining, Agriculture, Economy and Health. The Regional Commissions of CONAMW,
the COREMAs, were given responsibility for coordinating monitoring and control
activities with the local services of the Ministry of Health, the SERPMIS and
the Municipal authorities. None of these entities curtently have the capacity
to carry out this task, however. Whether this set-up will work in practice is
not clear. The proposed project provides limited assistance to the COREMA's
pending the results of the policy and institutional studies to be supported
under the project (paras. 14-15). Finally, there is an regulatory vacuum with
respect to hazardous mastes.
Component Objectives And Description
12.    The primarv obiecti4e of this component is to foster debate leading to
a national industrial pollution strategy. This will entail improving informa-
tion about the magnitude and nature of the problem, assessing alternative
policy instruments, zad analyzing alternative institutional arrangements. The
project's training program (Annex C, Section 3.3) will reinforce this
component.  A secondary o*dective is to support an ongoing program of
reduction in contamination generated by the mining sector., This will entail
supporting the Ministry of Mines in the definition of standards, carrying out
of specific feasibility studies and environmental assessments, and training of
sectoral staff.
Definition of an Industrial Anti-Pollution Strategy
13.    Improve the information base.  As noted earlier, a national water
contamination inventory is ongoing. The proposed project would supplement
this by implementing rapid air quality and emission inventories, and hazardous
waste pollution inventories in Regions III, IV, V, VIII, IX and X. As an
input to the development of hazardous waste inventories, a separate study will
provide information to develop a manual to manage solid waste substances and
disposal places. Regions will be selected based on the structure of
industrial location in Chile. it is expected that these inventories will,
beyond providing a fix on the scope of the problem in the selected regions,
improve the capacity of the COREMA's to carry out such inventories and
evaluate the results. In a first phase, methodologies would be designed and
tested in a pilot region. These would maximize information already available
from other sources. Once the methodology is tested and adjusted as necessary,
inventories would carried out in five additional regions. Consultants would
be responsible for the design and carrying out of the pollution inventories,
and for development of hazardous waste classification, and for training COREMA
staff. This component would be carried out over a 14-month period.
14.    Define industrial anti-pollution policy and institutional framework.
The project would support three activities: (a) an industrial water pollution
policy options paper; (b) an overarching industrial pollution policy paper;
and (c) development of a manual for hazardous waste management. These
activities would include follow-up activities which may emerge from the two
policy studies, including development of a industrial pollution strategy for a
pilot Region. The loan would finance the costs of foreign and local
consultants, and the logistical costs of workshops, including external
reviewers.



70 -
15.    Policy and Institutional Options for Controlling Water Pollution from
Industrial Sources. The inventory of water pollution from industrial sources,
which is currently underway, would provide a point of departure for the
proposed study. This study would: (a) define a natioital policy framework for
industrial water pollution control. This would include an assessment of
alternative policy instruments, such as pollution taxes, transferable pollu-
tion rights, command and control; (b) on the basis of the recommended
approach, assess the appropriateness of the current assignment of responsibi-
lities for water pollution control, analyze alternative institutional arrange-
ments; and (c) define a plan of action (including a definition of human, tech-
nical and financial resources, and necessary changes in the legal framework)
to implement the recommendations.
16.    Industrial Pollution Policy Paper. As noted earlier, there has been a
lack of informed debate in Chile on the objectives and policy and institution-
al options for control of industrial pollution. At the same time, initiatives
are underway in the area of air pollution, most notably in the Santiago
Metropolitan Region. The objective of the proposed technical assistance would
be to prepare an industrial pollution policy paper which would provide an
integrated vision for control of air, water and solid waste pollution from
industrial sources which is compatible with national economic policies. It
would propose an institutional framework, including the definition of the
respective roles of national and regional levels of Government. It would draw
upon the experiences of the program of transferable pollutioi rights being
implemented in Santiago as well as the water pollution controlpolicy paper to
be supported under this component, and described above. Like the water pollu-
tion policy study, the design contemplates workshops at interim points in the
study where initial policy proposals will be debated.
17.    Develop a Manual for Industrial Solid Waste Management.  This would
entail a definition of minimum requirements for the management of both hazard-
ous and nonhazardous industrial solid waste. Specifications for storage,
collection, transport, and final disposition will be developed.
18.    Component Administration.  In order to ensure that pollution control
policies are compatible with economic policies, CONAMA has asked the Ministry
of Economy to execute this component.  For this purpose, the Ministry of
Economy created a small policy group. At appraisal, a draft agreement between
the STyA and the Ministry of Economy was reviewed. It outlines the respective
roles and implementation arrangements. The agreement would also present the
mechanisms for interministerial coordination and oversight, via a special
subcommission of CONAMA to be created for that purpose. (That subcommission
would also provide a linkage to the activities to be carried out by the
Ministry of Mines, outlined in para. 19.) The loan would finance the costs of
a senior pollution expert and one technical consultant for a five-year period,
as well as the costs of office equipment and domestic travel expenses. The
Ministry of Economy will assign a full-time economist to head the group, and
provide secretarial and operational support.
Support Immediate Program of Action in the Mining Sector
19.    Mining Sector Environmental Standards and Worms. This component would
comprise technical assistance for development of environmental norms and
standards which have particular reference to the mining industry. These
include norms relating to effluent discharge; solid waste disposal; and mine
abandonment. The component also provides for a review and updating of all



71
relevant legislation. The successful model adopted for the development of the
S02 standard would be used. International experts would be brought in to work
with a team made up of local consultants under the supervision of the Ministry
of Mine's Environmental Unit. Seminars would be held'to discuss the
proposals, with the participation of Universities, Sernageomin, Center of
Research for mining and metal industry (CIMM). The seminars would also
include representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Ministries in the Sub-
Commission to be oat up to guide industrial policy work, private sector, and
NGOs. Dates for issuance of all regulations developed under the component
would be agreed at appraisal and confirmed at negotiations. The project would
finance the cost of local and foreign experts.
20.    Carry out Weasibilitv Studies.  Two studies would be carried out to
investigate the feasibility of using water from the tranque de relave Pampa
Austral for (a) domestic water supply at the town of Chaflaral, and (b) for
irrigation at Diego de Almagro. This facility has the potential to supply an
important volume of water to this dry zone. The feasibility studies would be
carried out in cooperation with the Ministries of Agriculture and Public
Works.
21.    Comilementarv Activitis.  Other important mining sector activities
would be supported by proje, 4 components, and are described in the respective
Annexes. These include:  (a) environmental assessments of small mining;
(b) tailing discharge on the bay and town of Chanaral (Annex C, Section 3. 2);
and (c) training in environmental management under the projects training
component (Annex C, Section 3.3 (A)).
22.    Comonent Administration.  This component would be executed by the
Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Mines. At appraisal, a draft agreement
between the STyA and the Ministry of Mines which details roles and implementa-
tion arrangements was reviewed. The project would also finance an interna-
tional study tour, cost of domestic travel related to supervision of studies
and for training purposes, and acquisition of video equipment.



-72 
Annex 3 * C=  - PROJECT COST TABS
Table  .ls PROJECT COST BY CONOIUT AND MAZY CATEGORIES (US$ million)
Equfpment
Feas aVd            Training  Goods and  Operating
COMPONENTS                       Salaries  StudIes       a/     Mteralts    Costs         TotaL
.... .....,.. _..................................  ......  ..........    ....    ....    ---
A. tnstItutional Strengthening
.............................................
Legal Regulatory Fraewo rk                             0.59     0.00       0.26        0.00        0.01      0.86
EnvIroanental Assessment                               2.68     1.85       1.98        0.04        0.39      6.95
unan Resources 0Ovolopment                             0.45     0.14       2.85        0.09        0.30      3.84
*nvfrorumnttl Information System                       0.16     0.06       0.06        0.79        0. 18     1.25
Economie Analysis of Eiwfronmental Issues              0.20     0.00       0.07        0.02        0.05      0.34
CONANA's Reorganfzation                                7.08     2.24       0.03        0.60        1.70    11.66
S. Priority Sectors Programs
.............................................
Control of Industry Pollution                          0.34     1.59       0.00        0.01        0. 7      2.02
Native Forest Cadastro                                 0.95     3.35       0.02        0.92        0.14      5.39
Control of NMning Pollution                            0.27     0.13       0.05        0.01        0.01      0.47
..............  .......  ............ ................. ... ........  ............. .. .
TOTAL                                                 12.73     9.36       5.33        2.50        2.85    32.77
.... I udes ...CammnIty Pit Projccts........



. 73 -
Tabl * 2.2: 130130 COST BY CATORY A= TRS OW
(U$   Lilin)
TOtAL              YEH I          YEARE2 YAR 3                 YEAR 4         YEAR 5
Category          LoCAL  FPRN. TOTAL   LOCAL  PRGN. LOCAL  FROM. LOCAL  FROM. LOCAL   FRON. LOCAL  FRGN.
.......................  .....  .............................................................................
Equfpment, Vehicles, Goods 0.61   1.82   2.43    0.04  0@36   0.01   0.28   0.18   0.14    0.18   0.69   0.19   0.1S
*nd Materalts
Consuttancy Servfc s        2.91   0.98   3.89    1.13   0.35   0.78  0.32   0.49  0.19    0.25   0.09   0.26   0.02
Studies                     6.64   2.73   9.36    2.68   1.16    1.29   1.22    1.09  0.14    0.97   0.13    0.61   0.07
Trafnfng                    3.10   2.00   5.10    0.61   0.18   0.88  0.71    0.73   0.77    0.42   0.33    0.66  0.00
Community PiLot Proyects   0.22   0.00   0.22    0.11   0.00   0.11   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
Incremental Recurrent
fxpfnditures
Salaries                8.83   0.00   8.83    1.01   0.00    1.38  0.00    1.90  0.00    2.0L.  0.00    2.29  0.00
operating Costs          2.78   0.11   2.92    0.61   0.03    0.18  0.03    0.64   0.03    0.66   0.03    0.60   0.03
..... ....  .....   ....  ....   ....  ... .    ....  ....    ....   ....   ....  ....
Totat                     25.11   7.67  32.77   6.01   2.27   5.13  2.56   3.03   1.27   4.53   1.2S   4.39  0.28



- 74 -
Table 3.3: PRO03CT COST BY COJONT h3D UUS  C                                           ',=ONr
TOTAL           mmA I1        T      IMtrS mm3             Mm4 *        tUR 5
Cl:leQNNTHS               LOCAL  FOREIGN TOTAL LOCAL rPUIc  LOCAL QPtIN LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN
A. Instutfonat Strenthenfng
.........................................
Letl RegulaECry Fre,iork                  0.7r    0.to  0.86 0.37   0.01 0.27   0.08 0.12   0.02  0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
Envfrectal Assessent                      S.36    1.58   6.95  0.89   0.40  1.56   0.62  1.25    0.53  0.e0    0.02 0.J   0.02
IMen Resource Oev  P ent                  Z.n     1.12   3.84  0.69   0.00  0.59    0.o42  0.52    0.33  0.50    0.36  0.42   o.0a
nvfromental Information Systm             0.61    0.63   1.25  0.10   0.03  0.06   0.17 0.19    0.14  0.13    0.14  0.14   0.15
goomie Anatysts of Envfrorientat tssues 0.20    0.1..  0.34  0.05    0.09 0.07   0.02  0.07   0.02  0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
GOMA's Reormpntzatlon                    10.59    1.07  11.66  1.60   0.59  1.98   0.14  2.30    0.14  2.3?    0.12  2.35   0.08
B. Prforfty S etert.Progrum
.........................................
Cantrol of Industry Pottutfon             1.90    0.12   2.02 0.f4   0.01 0.25    0.02  0.2*    0.02  0.48    0.04  0.28   0.02
NatIve Forest Cadstre                     2.55    2.8L   5.39  1.42   1.09 0.20    1.09  0.35    0.06  0.24    0.60  0.35   0.00
Cantrot of Mfinrg PotLuelon               0.4:    0.06   0.47 0.26   0.05  0.15   0.01  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00   O.C0
TOTAL                                    25.11    7.67  32.77 6.01   2.2? S.13   2.56  5.05    1.2? 4.53    1.2  4.39   0.U
........m ..........m..... mam  m_.  mu  .auu  maD............... aUin  DaU  umuau  .....m..m..m.....m......um



- 75 -
Table B.4: XSTZ&TZD AIM  CONTCTUL  W OT0   YIA S
(VS$  '000  equvaleut)
...... ............  .....  ................................ .... ............................
Total
Project Element               FY93      FY94     FY95     FY96    FY97   Payment            gtomrks
..  .            _............................... ................................................................................
LOAN TIMING
Sign/Effec/Ctose                     --                                    C
GOCOS
computer Equipment                 291                         562                  853       IC$
Computer Equipment                           217      200               217         634       LeS
Software                            67                         1S5                  252      LCU
Software                            75                                               75      Local Shoppfng
Video & Audio EquIpment             40        27                                     67       LCS
Vehicles                            34                                               34       Local ShoppIng
Furniture                           40                                               40      LCB
Furniture                                      8                                      a      Other
SatelLite Pictures                                    117      122      123         362       LC3
Materials, Publications, atc.       53        43        3        3'        7        110       Other
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
Teehnical Assistsnce             1,480    1,104       688      334      281       3,887       Other
Studies                          3,839    2,508    1,232    1,100       685       9,364       Other
TRAINING                             785    1,587    1,519       766      444       5,101       Other
COMMUNITY PILOT PROJECTS             106       110                                    216       Not Bank Financed
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT
EXR NDITURES
Salaries                         1,040    1,584    1,896    2,044    2,286        8,850       Not lank Financed
Operation                          435       505      665      690      625       2,920       Not Bank financed
...... ............           ..                 .
TOTALS                 8,285    7,693    6,319    5,807   4,668       32,7 7
(Cank Finanued)            (4,260)  (3,011)  (1,701)  (1,710)    (818)   (11.500)



- 76 -
Anne F: CHILE - PRJECT ILENWTATION SCHEDULE, 1993-97
1993            1994            1995           1996            1997
A.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
t. Institutionsl Strengthening of STYA                              lgii
2. Legal Regulatory Framework
3. Emvirormtat Assessren t                                         ............
4.  Training in Emvirrorental Protection and                       .....I.. ..... ..II.IIIii IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Natural Resources Management
5. Environmntat Education
6. Small Envirormemntal Projects                                   IIIIIIIII         IIIIIIIIIIIIII
N. Hational Informtion System                                                                      iiiii;;iiiiiii  iiiiiiii        IlIllllll
8. Economic Analysis of Envirovmental Issues                        xxxxxxxxxxxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxxxxXxxxxxxxxxXxxxxXXXXXXXXXXXXXI IXXXXXXX- xxXXX
S. SUPPORTING PRIVRITY SECTORS ENGAGED IN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AND NATLtAL RESOURCE ACTIVITIES
1. Forestry Sector                                                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxx,xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXaXXXXuxxxxxzuuua
2. AntipollutIon Strategy in the Industriat Sector                 ----------------...............x.xxxxxxxxxxxxxJxxxxxxxEXxx xxxXxxxxxxxxxiOxxx
3. Nining Sector                                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
.......  Preparatory Activities
|||||||   Iplementation by CrA
xxxxxxx  Ilementation by other agencies



-
. 77 -
AnnuAx Os  CML  - QUMT3RXLr DZSDURSSNT 1ROV1L3
Cumulative Disbursement
Quarter Ending             Appraisal 3stimate                  Cumulative
- (US$ million) -----            (Percent)
March                          1.0                               8.7
June                           2.0                              17.4
September                      2.8                              24.3
December                       3.5                              30.4
March                          4.3                              37.4
June                           5.3                              46.0
September                      6.0                              52.2
December                       6.6                              57.4
March                          7.3                              63.5
June                           7.8                              67.8
Frs6:
September                      8.3                              72.2
December                       8.7                              75.7
March                          9.2                              80.0
June                           9.6                              83.5
RUZ:
September                     10.0                              87.0
December                      10.3                              89.6
March                         10.6                              92.2
June                          10.8                              93.9
September                     11.0                              95.7
December                      11.2                              97.4
March                         11.4                              99.1
June                          11.5                             100.0



aes~~~~~ 76 - =z
AwLez N s C=LU - 10lCT ZNDZC&TOUS AND mATsM
A. IV  POJECT EFUMI0 INOICATS
..............w@o@@oss.............
Priese, Comenents                                               199     1994   1V"      1994    1w
1. Rtea  tinrese  of Publhz and Prf veto Sector Projet  Being                           0       a       j       l        Is
Subject to Envfronmental Ipact: Aseae    ts
2. loel Growth of Donors,  d  lilateral Aesw    as' Canttrbu                            3       I        7      10       10
tlox to tImptnt Envfirormntal Progre   n Chile
3. Rtcurrent Cost Budgec  in the Puble Sector for Envrouontel                           J       J        7       0       12
Protection
lIM',r Adde Per Teor
4. Real Increas  of Professionals with EnwfronmntAl Mang-                              so0    1Go      100     100 1G    0
mnet Responasibilties In the Public Sector
S. Reel Increase of Specfltfted Invironinntol Units In Putlic                           5       S        S       S       10
Sector IntIties
s. PROJECT  rES
............... 
Tear
Pie.a. -  * * -                                      *-----. ResponasIbe
Project C=mWenencs                         coals     unit                2               4        5    Organilation
..................................................................................... ......... ............  .......... .......... ....... ........  .... ....... .,. ............
I. ShRATEGC SUPPORt PLAN
......................
1. EnViros'mental Logislation Program                                                                                           4TyA
CA) sasic Law Praposal: Fnal Project                             1 ILaw 
onscioms nsi-Risirg Workmahp            2 vorkshops         1 
Cb) Sc:oratl Law Proposatl: Sectorsl Lows                           L Lw                     4
workshop.                           4 Workahops                 4
cc) Afuinistatiwv Reform: Reformd Ruloes                         ILaw                        I
Worksho,ps                            I Wohop 
Cd) Pensl Legilfation: Reformed Rules                            I LAW                       I
workshops                                 I falter            1
(e3 Informateon System: Oesign                                 I002 study          1001
tiplmantctfan                         tCoX Study           33S     331      SLX
Publfeatfons                            5   e*er                     a       5
C') Ineernotional Law: Study                                     t Nvt.sre           1.
tg) rraining of Public  irti:utfona' Lawyers; SemInars          10  eminars         10
Partlcipsnts  ITG Participants  570
2. Enviroom ntcaI tIact Evaluation                                                                                               StyA
a) Tecnfical Support Units: at the *TyA                          1 hI*er             I
at the Ministrfes                  9 Nuter 
Cb) Con siousss-Raifng: Panols of Experts                       1t         r         2       2                  
Seminars                            40 nuiu            10       10      10      10
Conferences                          2 11er                               I                I
cc) trafning of trainers: Courses                               10 Nuter             S       5
Particip nt Instftutom               10 awe3                       5
Tfllowships Abroad                    5 Ihoer                      2       7
) Traininir of Pulilc Officiola: Courses                        15 Imer                       *
Pellowahips Abroad            SNuar                       2
Ce) ttdy of Criterio and  Procedure                             13 Stuy              6       4       1                2
(f) Pilot projecs                                                9Nuor                       9
(g) Nationalty Rltevnt Studies: Standard Nfning Tasks          100 Study                   1
Chonaral 3t,a                10oM Study                   SOX 
3. Training 'n Envromtat Ibnagumnt                                                                                               STIR
(a) Pitot Progrm: Courses                                            u               I
Partfcfpants fn Cour s                      52  Partiipant   SW
Seminars                                      I  Uiber            a
Paricipants In SIfnin*                      205 Participnts 
Workshops                                     3 mutr              3
Participants In Workshqs                    105 Participnts  15
(b) Main Progrm: Course                                         39 Nsbr                     tO       10      10       9
PartiepaWts In Coursos                     1590 Participants             00     400      600      90
Seinars                                       39 Nur                      10      10       10'
Participants In Semlnnrs                     990 part;penta              no       S       N0      2160
workshops                                     18 Nor                       I       5        4       4
?cetfolpents In Worb^hop                     360 Prtlcipants             100     100      0s       so
FPtt    atps Abrork  ip 15 Partfelpants                                    5       I        I
Study Tours Abroad                            40 ParticlpntS              20      tO       30



- 79 -
B. PROJECT TARGETS (Continued)
Fin.l                           .yer  ... . ...R ..           ---- tesponsible
Project Components                         coats      Unit        t       2       3        4        5    Orgmnizatlon
4. Environmental Information System                                                                                                STyA
(a) System Oesign                                               100X Study          lOOt
Cb) Environmental Information Units:                                                           4       3        3
Computrr Equipment                                         13  Nunker
- Regional Coordinators' training                            12 P;retlipants              3        3       3        3
(c) EnvirormentaL Oatsa  as.                                      I Sc%dy                                               3
(d) Specialized Software tnput                                   13 Sets                       4       3        3       5
Ct) GIS* DeveLopment StratesY                                   '% S'                      100
* GIS a Geographical Information System.
5. Informal Education in Consciousness-RaisIng                                                                                     SiyA
(a) Oocument Canter: Equipment                                  tCCX St:                     1OOX
Cb) Canstiousmes5-Ralsing Program:
* Coerz nating Coursas                                        1 Number                     1
Participants in Coordinating Courses                       40 Partielpants             40
- Improvement Courses                                        33  u-r.er                   s       10       10       a
- Participants In Improvement Courses                      1320 Participants            200      400      400     320
Conscicusness-Raising Courses                             3CO  N iber                   Is     100      100      Is
- PartIcipants in Consecfusnress-Raising Coursue          11680  Particfpants           400    4000    4000    3000
- textbooks Oublication                                       6 Number                    3        3
* Hicrovideos                                                 6 Nurber                             3        3
6. Envirormen:aL E:zncmics                                                                                                         STyA
(a) St.;dies F6rd: Es:abifsh-en: of Administrative ComminIt:ee    1 Coamilttoe        I
ProceduraL Manusls                             I N#Jeb5             I
Studies                                        8  St-uy             2       3        3
(b) Envlr^rren-at Accounts at Cetratl Sank:                                                                                Central Bank
- Es:abtis?rment of the Envir:^nmntal Accounting Unit         I Unit              1
* 8as c E:Ufpmen:                                             I E;u;m*ent         I
* Trai,i-n;. Abroad                                           2 Participants      2
- Exper:mental Work                                         IOCX S;cdy           232     50       23X
Cc) Trainirg in Environmental Economics:                        120  Participants            120                                S7yA
It. PRICRITY SE?C7RS
1- Forestry Sectr                                                                                                                "CONAF
Ca) Cadas:re: Aerial Photagraphy (Bid)                          lOCC Contract        6r7    3D 
Cadastre Study (Bid)                             10CX Contract         50X     54X
Cb) Pattow-Jp ard Menitoring System:
Sysen Desig n                                              W Stu
- Cen:-at Work Station                                        1 Station                                     1
- Bassc Wcr Stations                                         4  Stations                                   1       3
- Training in Satel Ite Images                               62 Partfcipants                               12
Tra ming fn GIS   i0  Par:tcipants                                                                       60
- P-oced.ral Manuals                                          1 Manual                                      1
F4na! Repor: an Me:hcdology                                  1 Reoort                                      1
Cc) Ins:itutional Study                                         100l  Study         1002
2. Mining Se-.:or                                                                                                                Ministry
(a) Envfrormement Imosc: Diagnosis: Pampa Austral Project   1O- Study               50X      30X                            of Mining
(b) Sec!orat E vfrormental Standards: S:udies                     4  Study            4
Seminars                  6  Number           6
(c) Speciali:ed Training: Study Tour Abroad                       1 Particfpant        1
Courses                               30  Participants    30
Equipment                            100X Equipment       1002
3. Indus:rial Sectr: First Phase                                                                                                 MiNECON
(a) Regionat Pilot Plan:
- Atmospheric Contaminants Inventory Development:
 Methodology Devalopment                                  3   stud3 0
 Training                                                 30  Partdelpats    30
- Solid Residue Contaminants Inventory:
 Methodology Development                                   I Study              1
e Training                                                 30 ParticIpants    30
* Air Ouality Evaluation Oevelopment:
 Methodology Development                                   I Study i
 Training                                                 20 Partfcfp nts    20
- Evaluation of Solid Residues Disposal Places:
* Methodology DevOelopment                                  I Stui a             1
 Training                                                 20  PSemtic1npa      210
- Training In Pollution Management:                           I Seminar           I
*Management Capacity Evaluation                                 e Study          I
Cb) Actions at National Level:                                     I  pot              I
* Salid Restdues Manual                                       1 Manual            I
- Water Poltutfon Control Policy                              1 Study              I
- GLobat Policy on Pollution                                  I Study             I



* so *
2. pUOJtECT VAMTS (Cmulfmd)
,  ...........................
.................................................. ....  .........  ...!." ....... .              .......... ..........
-                    ~~~ProIsce Cap~orncn                          ell        Unit        1       2        3                5    0 rgoniaati
3.1 IndLstrfal Setor: Seond Phase
(a) Atmospherle Inventory Applceatlonn                             S  1     1                             1        2       t
(b) Soltd R"lIdo Contaitnants tnventOrys                              butae                      I                          t
Ct  Air *Alfty gValuatfon Atla..tliont                             ,                             1        t 
Cd)  tolid l uesI Bposel tle o                                                                            1t       2       t
(e) training in Ptolluton Managment:                             tOO  Partleipans               20       20       40      20
fit.  STRIMGTHNUNIO STAFF AND EOfIZATION OF STyA                                                                                      StyA
........................................
Ce) llan  Aeorcs
Conetral Prftsionl St                                       41  Stf t            2t        6 s               *
Central AdInficretive   ort Staff                           1   Staf f           14        4
* linut  Protessialt staff                                    36  Staff            14        5        S        7       S
tfonatl Adunletrattve Support Staff                              staff            I2
(b) Nain Squfpmunt:
* Cputeerse                                                   5    mbr             so
Printers                                                    22  Nrer             21
Couter Nuortk                                                I  1ud1               I
Vehfcles                                                     2  lul*r              2
-  elepho    lquipmet                                          I Nller               I



- 81
Annex I:  CHILE - WORKING PAPERS AND LIST OF DOCWEMTS IN THZ PROJECT PILES
A. Working Papers
Centro de Informaci6n de Recursos Naturales y Productivos de Chile. Informe
Final; June 1986.
Centro de Informacifn de Recursos Naturales y Productivos de Chile. Sistema
de Informacion de Gestion (SIG); marzo de 1991.
Comision Nacional de Energia. Programa Piloto: Uso Combustibles Alternativos
on Vehiculow de Locomoci6n Colectiva Urbana en Santiago. Informs Final:
Resultados, Conclusiones y Recomendaciones; marzo de 1990.
Comision Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA).  Ozona Country Programme
Protocolo de Montreal - Chile," Kien Consultores; febrero de 1992.
Comision Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA). Programa de Fortalocimiento
Institucional Componente 2: Sistema de Evaluaci4n Ambiental en el Sector
Piblico; enero de 1991.
Comisi6n Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA). Propuesta de Proyecto:
Desarrollo de Instituciones Ambientales; junio de 1990.
Comisi6n Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA). Proyecto de Desarrollo de
Institutiones del Medio Ambiente, Versi6n Segunda; abril de 1992.
Comision Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA). Proyecto de Desarrollo de
Institutiones del Nedio Ambiente, Versi6n Tercera; junio de 1992.
Intendencia Regi6n Metropolitana. Desarrollo de un Modelo de Dispersi6n de
Contaminantes Atmosfericos; noviembre de 1989.
Intendencia Regi6n Metropolitana. Estudio Base para la Definici6n de un
Programa de Control de la Contaminaci6n Hidrica, Consorcio ARA/SEEBLA/
CONSECOL; diciembre de 1988.
Intendencia Region Metropolitana. Sistema de Derechos de Emisi6n de
Contaminantes Atmosfericos; octubre de 1989.
Intendencia Regi6n Metropolitana. Universo de Fuentes Emisoras de
Contaminantes Atmosftricos e Inventario Real de Emisiones para Santiago; mayo
de 1989.
interim Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol.
"Institutional Strengthening for the Phase-out of Ozone Depleting Substances
(ODSs) in Countries Operating under Paragraph 1 of Article 5".
Interim MUltilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocel.
"Magnitude of the Fund: An Approach to Calculate the Financial Requiremants
for the Period 1993-1996".
Interim Multilateral Fund for the Implemertation of the Montreal Protocol.
"Proposed Guidelines for Cost Assessment of Bilateral and Regional
Activities."



- 82 -
Interim Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol.
"Retroactive Financing from the Interim Multilateral Fund."
B. General Performanca Studies in the Sector
Alicbusan, Adelaida and Krupnick, Alan. "Estimation of Health Benefits of
Reduction in Ambient Air Pollutants," World Bank Environment Department
Divisional Working Paper No. 1990-11; May 1990.
Espinoza Guillermo, Gross, Patricio y Hajek, Ernst. "Problemas Ambientales de
Chile;" agosto de 1990.
Hamrin, Robert D. "Policy Control Options for Comparative Air Pollution Study
in Urban Areas," World Bank Environment Working Paper -o. 28; April 1990.
InterAmerican Development Bank. "Proceedings of the Third Consultative
Meeting with Public Agencies and Nongovernmental Organizations Concerned with
Environmental Protection and the Conservation of Natural Resources,"
Environmental Management Committee; June 1991.
King, Kenneth and Munasinghe, Mohan. "Incremental Costs of Phasing Out Ozone
Depleting Substances, "  World Bank g 'ironment Working Paper No. 47; September
1991.
Kreimer, Alcira and Munasirghe, Mohan, ed. "Managing Natural Disasters and
the Environment," Environmental Department of the World Bank; 1991.
Sebastian, Iona. "Issues in urban Air Pollution: Ankara Diagnostic Report,"
World Bank Environment Working Paper No. 38; August 1990.
United States Environmental Protection Agency. "The Clean Air Act Amendments
of 1990: Summary Materials;" November 1S, 1990.
World Bank. "Chile - Sustaining Growth: An Agricultural Sector Review,"
Agricultural Operations Division, LAC4; June 29, 1990
World Bank. "Environmental Assessment Sourcebook," WB Technical Paper No.
139, Environment Department; 1991.
World Bank. 'Environmental Guidelines," Environment Department; September
1988.
World Bank. "Forest Sector," September 1991.
World Bank. "Natural Resource Management in Nepal: 25 Years of Experience,n
Operations Evaluation Department; February 1992.
World Bank. "The World Bank and the rnvironment: A Progress Report Fiscal
1991," 1991.



MAP SECTION



7?     PERU~~~~~~7b riA                       72                                                                 I*B~47                                              *IBRD 24i
P~~cf~- G E? R U
aa'~~                   REGION        )L   LBa\              z        REGION   I  f4
Arico                        ~~~   ~~~~~                      ~~DE  n  - F  C QUIMDE
Arica              > ~ VALPARAISO           V                           COQUISouth
-                                        I           SEZIE                          03                                                                       erI    
co         . ~~Qu,lf        0LtAde          
Valoaraiso            ani                                                                                coiH pUed
REGION                                                                                       I ~~Se AtoioXIIREGION AISFN f)Fi7/ii
GE                                                         0 Puont. Alto V~~I'*AIPNA AI8MO                  Adn      GENERAL CARL J~
TARAACASen  Moa     B'nro i                                                      *,              MarN                        IBANEZ DEI r,AMPO 
I  tdhp, IaMarpo   MOO
D POI ANA                                                                                         coda    ~n"i-
VI                 dCar                 a  p.    ~
~720                                               -       i       A C G
(                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION D-EL LIBERTACOR                                                                        M~t         AILROADS
T opt/Ia  i,-.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL BERNARDO a'IIGGN             ICILaOADS
22'               Tocoila                       Q2?I                                                                                                                                            CONTOURS (1,000 Motor Intervals)
220. ~~~~~~~~~~rdCaplt ,r Pr-tI
RIEGION Co           Tauca                                                                                RIVERS
REGION                                                                    DELaa',SALINE LAKES
DE                         Coa,LaMAULE                                                           Lnri                                                                            ICE FIELDS
AWTOFAGASTA  LG9                                                                                                                                                                     * MINE
36-                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONJAL AIRPORTS
/  alp                                                                                                                                        POR FS, THROUGH-PUT
-~~~  'Of                 v.~~~~~~loio  p a           Chtin                                            All                                    PER YEAR
24                                                                                                                                                                                         *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Antoaa sa0                                                                                                                                                      REGION CAPITALS
Lob ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
An:                                                                        xi  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
38'-U maEprai'a- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Taltal                       z~~~~~~~~                                                *3
REGION         TEMUCO                 I
26                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~26*  LA ARAUCANIA  -                                                                                                               2
Cha5ra CIanral                   e                                                                                                                                                  -
Maga 'la nes. IPUA
,AAtENAS?,
LU                                                 * '   ~   '
REGION~~~~~~~~~~~~EIO                                                                                                                                                                                   d
DE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
DE                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION GE MAGALLA/IES Y                                         54.
LOS LAGOS       Pt ~~Varas D*                                  E LA ANTARTICA CH LENA                 I
4r                                          ~~~~~~~~~~4r                       HL                     AfOiti tcC*flena.
This mop hasbeenkpma                                                                                                     C    IL
by The World Bank's staff                                                                          E VR N             E T LISIU IN
excusiely iar tMe convenience                                                                       E VR         N     E T LISIU IN
of reder  ond is for thef                                                                                DE      LO M        N    PR G A
LA                         ~~~~~~~~~intemol use of The world Bank--Chilob,D VEO ME                                                                                RO      M
30.   ASRNA        EqJ                      Group.The deomnosntions O.
REGI                           on th~~~~is mFp do not imp                         I oaltna
and thef-i bondade shnvGro3,                      /                                                                                                    0_  30   100  1S0   200
D                            ~~~~~~~~any jud 1ment on the~ tog                                                                                                                                IIOIf
coau                             a~~~~~~~~~~~ndorsement or acoeptance of                                                                                                                        KILMEER
JULY I WI



