Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20652
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan 3529-CH)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2000
ESSD Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso
US$1 = CH$527.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEPAL        -      Comisi6n Econ6mica para America Latina y el Caribe, or the Economic Commission
for Latin America and the Caribbean
CONAF        -      Corporaci6n Nacional Forestal, or the National Forest Corporation
CONAMA    -         Comisi6n Nacional del Medio Ambiente, or the National Commission for
Environment
EIA          -      Enviromnental Impact Assessment
IDB          -      Inter-American Development Bank
MIDEPLAN   -        Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Cooperaci6n de la RepuTblica de Chile, or the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MoF          -      Ministerio de Hacienda, or the Ministry of Finance
NAFTA        -      North American Free Trade Agreement
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
SINIA        -      Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental , or the National Environmental
Information System
SEGPRES    -        Secretaria General de la Presidencia, or the Secretary General of the Presidency
STyA         -      Secretaria Tecnica y Administrativa, or CONAMA's Technical and
Administrative Secretariat
TA           -      Technical Assistance
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ina-Marlene E. Ruthenberg



Chile                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Environmental Institutions Development Project
CONTENTS
1. Project Data .......................................................................1
2. Principal Performance Ratings .......................................................................1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry .................................1
3.1 Original Objective .......................................................................1
3.2 Quality at Entry ........................................................................2
3.3 Project Components ...............................................4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs .......5.....................................5
4.1 Achievement of Objective ............................................5
4.2 Outputs by Component .............................................6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ............................................                                               10
5.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency ......................................... 10
5.2 Factors Generally  Subject to Government ControL ......................................................................  11
5.3 Factors Generally  Subject to Implementing Agency Control: CONAMA ..................................... 12
5.4 Costs and Financing .......................................................................                                                  12
6. Sustainability .......................................................................                                                        13
6.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating ......................................................................                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................................                                         14
7.1 Bank Identification and Preparation ...................................................................... 14
7.2 Bank  Supervision ......................................................................                                                     14
7.3 Overall Bank Performance ......................................................................                                              15
7.4 Borrower Preparation ......................................................................                                                  15
7.5 Government Implementation Performance ......................................................................                                 15
7.6 Implementing Agency ......................................................................                                                   16
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance ......................................................................                                          16
8. Lessons Learned ......................................................................                                                        16
9. Partner Comments ......................................................................                                                       19
Annexes:
Annex  1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix .................................................................. 20
Table 1: Project Performance Indicators as established in the SAR ....................................... 20
Table 2: Contribution by Donors and Bilateral Agencies for CONAMA's Environmental
Programs ......................................................................                                        21
Table 3: Component Performance Indicators ......................................................................    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing ..........................................................                                        23
Table 1: Project Cost by Component ..........................................................                              23
Table 2: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) ........................... 23
Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) .............................................. 24
Table 4: Project Financing Category ..........................................................                              24
Annex 3. Bank Inputs ..........................................................                                                        25
Annex 4. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components ......................................... 27
Annex 5. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................                           27
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ..........................................................                                       28
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Results ..........................................................                                       33
Annex 8. Bo rrower ICR ........................................................... 36
Annex 9. Lessons Learned from the Chilean Model for Public Sector Environmental Management. 49
Annex 10. CONAMA's Organizational Structure .........................................................                                  53
Map



1. Project Data
Name: Environmental Institutions Development                L/C/TF  35290; 3529A;
Number:  3529S; P1641
Country/Department:  Chile                                             Region:  Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VI - Environmental Institutions
Key Dates                                            Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/15/90                                Effective:  02/08/93
Appraisal:  07/01/90                                 MTR:  06/01/1996
Approval:  11/17/92                               Closing:  06/30/98            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF CHILE/National Environment Commission (CONAMA)
STAFF                Current:                                  At Appraisal:
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Myrna L. Alexander                        Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                              James W. Adams
Team Leader at ICR:   Ina-Marlene E. Ruthenberg                Luis Pisani
ICR Primary Author:   ICR Team composed of Ina-Marlene Ruthenberg, John Dixon, Kulsum Ahmed, Carter Brandon
and Angela Armstrong
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly likely, L=Likely, UJN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly unlikely,
HU=Highly unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)   ICR
Quality at Entry:    n.a.                HS
Project at Risk at Any Time:   n.a.               No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective
The project was the World Bank's first environment operation in Chile. It was designed to help raise the priority
of environmental protection and modernize environmental management in newly-democratic Chile by
establishing a new national level authority. This required no less than a cultural shift within government. Chile
selected a model that consisted of a small, decentralized National Commission for Environment (CONAMA)
with technical and coordination functions, that was overseen by an Inter-Ministerial Committee of relevant state
ministries with environment-related functions (see Annex 11 for CONAMA Structure). The World Bank-
financed project adopted a two-tiered approach to support the implementation of this model. First, it helped
make the model workable by supporting many aspects of its implementation; and second, it helped strengthen
the Government's ability to evaluate and manage priority environmental problems (forestry, mining, and
industry). Details on these two components follow.
(i) Establishing an institutional framework to manage environmental protection and conservation of
natural resources. At the project's outset, a transitory version of CONAMA had been created by
presidential decree, which consisted of a small Technical Administrative Secretariat (STyA) staffed
with 6 persons in the Ministry of National Resources. The project specifically aimed to (i) strengthen
the technical and administrative structure of the commission; (ii) implement and update the legal
regulatory framework for environment; (iii) develop environmental impact assessments (EIAs) as a



principle management tool for public- and private-sector investment projects; (iv) provide training in
environmental and natural resources management; (v) develop a nonformal education program; (vi)
implement small environmental projects at the community level; (vii) establish an environmental
information system; and (viii) develop capacity for economic analysis of environmental issues.
(ii) Strengthening environmental management in priority sectors. The project selected forestry, mining
and industry for strengthening sector ministries' environmental management capacity. Specifically, the
project aimed to (i) improve the quality of management and conservation of Chile's native forests, (ii)
conduct studies leading to a national strategy for reduction of industrial pollution, and (iii) develop a
regulatory environmental framework for the mining sector.
3.2 Quality at Entry
Seizing the opportunity. The Chilean government's request for Bank assistance in environmental institution
building came at a particularly opportune time. In 1990, after 17 years of military dictatorship, the country
transitioned to a democratically elected government that was responsive and accountable to a wider range of
public interests and stakeholders. At the same time, these stakeholders and interest groups became more
energized and unconstrained in voicing their agendas. Environment emerged as an increasingly important issue,
highlighted by the visibly poor air quality in Santiago and the mounting destruction of forests. In addition,
transnational mining companies were introducing the more environmentally sound practices they already had
incorporated into production systems under the more stringent requirements of their home countries. These
companies also provided leadership in the environmental arena by conducting voluntary EIAs. The global
context for the emergence of a new environmental agenda in Chile included the 1992 Rio Earth Summit and the
possibility of a wider North American Free Trade Agreement that, if implemented, would have included
environmental requirements for Chile. For the Bank, environment was a relatively new but increasingly
important area, as reflected in the 1992 World Development Report focusing on development and the
environment.
Setting broad, yet clear and realistic objectives. Since the project aimed at promoting a culture shift to raise the
priority of environmental protection and modernize environmental management, the overall goal of the project
was quite broad. The objectives were realistic in that they focused on building an agency to coordinate the
efforts of existing public institutions rather than creating a new ministry. The new government preferred this
approach because the development of large central administrations was a contributing factor in the downfall of
the prior democratic government of President Salvador Allende. While the project was realistic in its goals, it
was slightly overoptimistic about the time required to build political consensus for innovation and change. At
the time there was no country assistance strategy, no portfolio with Chile, and the Bank's experience in this area
was low. There were only two similar projects-in Brazil and Mexico-both of which had only recently been
approved.
Risk assessment was adequate and the design allowedfor flexibility. The project was risky because government
support was inconsistent; although President Aylwin was committed to the project's objectives, other officials
felt that addressing environmental concerns would compromise economic growth. Furthermore, the project
design was in the hands of a only few technical experts from academia and NGOs, the implementing agency
initially had standing only by executive decree rather than by law; and there were no policies or procedures
designed for the proposed institution. The SAR alluded to political difficulties in general terms as "resistance
from the part of the public administration." This did not fully capture the political chess playing that is part of
establishing a new public institution, creating a legal framework, and developing a set of public-sector
management policies and tools. Flexibility of the project design, however, was highly adequate and allowed for
changes in component design, pilots, and the loan disbursement schedule in order to deal with the risks.
2



Though demanding, complex, and politically risky, the project was very responsive to Chile's needs,
circumstances, and development priorities. The project was particularly demanding for the Borrower because of
its initially inadequate human resources. At the outset of the project, CONAMA had only six staff. The project
was complex in that there were ten components (many of these became the basis for the current departments in
CONAMA). Although in terms of what was being financed (goods, equipment, and a number of studies) the
project was relatively simple, dividing the funds into ten components considerably increased accountability.The
project objectives were also consistent with the country's needs. Chile had a strong economy and relatively high
level of development, but the country was still playing catch-up on its environmental and social agendas. The
project was responsive to Borrower circumstances, because it gave increased credibility to, while also
demanding greater accountability from, the nascent institution. Finally, sustainability was clearly addressed in
project design since the entire plan was to establish a new entity that would become a permanent institution in
the Chilean government.
Methodology focused little on impact but a very good attempt was made to develop a logical project structure.
The objective of strengthening institutional capacity to implement sectoral policies and plans was formulated as
inputs that will have outputs rather than as outcomes with impacts on improved environmental performance.
Overall projectperformance indicators were defined, but were not impact indicators. Substantial health benefits
to the citizens in urban areas and locations affected by industrial or mining pollutants are mentioned in the SAR
but no attempt was made to quantify baselines for these potential impacts. The same weakness applied on other
components where the expected results were general. However, within each component there was a detailed list
of activities with detailed performance indicators that provided a better depiction of expected impacts. The SAR
put these elements together in an overview that comes close to being a Logical Framework, and which was
helpful in evaluating the project.
3



3.3 Project Components
Table 1. Costs by Project Component
Costs
At appraisal    Reprogrammed         At closing
Component'                                             (1992)            (1996)         (12-31-l999)b
A. Institutional Strengthening:
I. Strengthening of CONAMA's Organization         11,660,000        11,317,000        14,350,000
2. Legal Regulatory Framework                        860,000           866,700           800,000
3. Environmental Impact Assessment System          6,950,000         4,344,200         3,300,000
4. Training and Awareness                          3,840,000         2,834,900         2,280,000
4.1. Trainingfor Public Sector Professionals                      1,813, 700        1,620,000
4.2. Environmental Awarenessc                                     1,021,200           660,000
5. Environmental Information System                1,250,000         1,010,200           760,000
6. Economic Analysis of Enviromnental Issues         340,000         1,139,300         1,180,000
7. Decontamination Plans and Emission Standardsd        n.a.         2,898,300         2,220,000
B. Priority Sector Activities:
1. Native Forest Cadastre                          5,390,000         5,392,000         4,790,000
2. Control of Industrial Pollution                 2,020,000         2,020,100         1,770,000
3. Control of Mining Pollution                       470,000           472,600           680,000
PPF                                                                                        570,000
Total                                          32,770,000        32,295,300        32,700,000
a Component numbering changed several times during the course of the project. This table reflects the numbers at project closing.
b. Costs are rounded.
c. Component A 4.2 is listed in the Loan Agreement as Components A.5 (Public Environmental Education Program) and A.6
(Community Projects). As these components were processed and reported on collectively during implementation, they are presented
in the ICR as a single component (Environmental Awareness).
d. The Decontamination Plans and Emissions Standards Component was added to the project in December 1997. Although it was
listed as Component A.9 when added via a loan amendment, it is listed in the ICR as Component A.7.
Changes to project components. A new Component A.7 (Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards) was
added to the project following the midterm review. The Bank approved a proposal for this component in 1996,
and it was formally added to the project via an amendment to the Loan Agreement in December 1997. To
finance this component, resources were reprogrammed from other components, mainly EIA and Training. In
addition, there were substantial changes made to the design of Components A.5 (Environmental Information
System) and B.2 (Control of Industrial Pollution). Component A.5 was completely revised because of rapidly
changing information technology, which was particularly far-reaching during the mid- 1990s. Component B1.2
was revised in 1997 and its focus changed from development of a regulatory framework for industry to
promotion of voluntary "cleaner production" initiatives. Industrial regulation development was then integrated
into the new Component A.7 on decontamination and emission standards. These adjustments in components also
warranted a reallocation of proceeds among categories, which was processed in the December 1997 amendment.
Two subsequent reallocations of proceeds to cover both disbursement overruns and slight component
adjustments were requested by CONAMA and approved by the Bank in a notice to the Borrower in November
1998 and May 1999.
4



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Achievement of Objective:
Establishing an institutional framework to manage environmental protection and conservation of natural
resources. There were remarkable changes in Chile's environmental management over the life of the project.
When project preparation began there were only six government staff working on environment and there were
no laws, procedures or regulations. By the end of the project there was a central environment agency with 350
staff, environment units in ten ministries, and a solid track record on impact assessment, policy analysis,
information systems, and other aspects of environmental management. The first objective-establishing an
institutional framework-was fully achieved by any standard, and surpassed project expectations. Few (if any)
countries have progressed so quickly from such a low base. The greatest credit clearly goes to the Chilean
government. However, the evaluation team found that the World Bank-financed project was also an essential
catalyst for change. The project helped the young CONAMA to acquire and manage a national budget, marshal
essential technical assistance at key junctures, leverage donor assistance, weather political conflict, and gain
stature in the eyes of government agencies, the media, the private sector, and civil society. While CONAMA
still faces many problems (as discussed later), it truly has made remarkable advances.
Strengthening environmental management in priority sectors. Success on the second objective-strengthening
and implementing sectoral policies-was mixed, in large part because the environment agenda sometimes
conflicted with other institutional incentives. When the environmental objectives were consistent with the
general objective of the relevant ministry, there was considerable success. This was the case in the preparation
of a cadastre by the Forestry Ministry and the promotion of clean production by the Ministry of Economy.
However, when environmental objectives were in conflict with the general mandate of the ministry there was
considerably less success. Examples of this include development of regulatory frameworks by ministries in
productive sectors such as Mining and Economy.
Reasoning for Highly Satisfactory overall project rating. The overall rating would be "satisfactory" if based
only on the unweighted average of the separate components. However, the assessment of development outcome
should be more than just the average of component ratings. In the case of this project, two main arguments
justify a rating of "highly satisfactory."
First, this project set up an entirely new administrative sector in the Chilean government and was a catalyst in
the very rapid expansion of institutional capacity in environmental management. The highly satisfactory
outcome is reflected in the fact that the new agency is fully operational in its core functions, taken seriously by
the private sector, commended by NGOs, and has gained broad public recognition of its authority. Sustainability
is highly likely because the new commission has political support, an explicit legislative foundation, and
receives regular and adequate budget appropriations. The project's success was mostly due to the Chilean
government's political commitment, highly trained and motivated staff, and flexibility during implementation.
Second, the project substantially exceeded the performance indicators established in its SAR. These output
indicators assessed the environment commission's relevance, importance, and attractiveness to other donors.
The ICR team (which was composed of staff from the Latin America and Caribbean Region, the South Asia
Region, and the Environment Anchor) identified this project as an example of good practice that should be
included in the Bank's Knowledge Management base and used for learning exercises in other countries. In fact,
this has already taken place in the form of a Pan-American workshop on the "Institutional Dimension of
Environmental Management" (October 1999).
5



4.2 Outputs by Component
A. Establishing the institutionalframework to manage environmentalprotection and conservation of natural
resources:
Component A.1-Strengthening CONAMA's Organization: This component recognized the need to build
CONAMA into an institution capable of developing and implementing environmental policies. The component
was intended to help provide management autonomy, establish administrative structures, recruit and train staff,
and provide adequate office space and equipment. While this component was the single largest expenditure item
of the overall project budget (including counterpart funds), it received a relatively small percentage of World
Bank financing. In fact, much of the Bank's technical contribution was made during project preparation, when
the organizational structure, required tasks, and institutional strengthening needs were being conceptualized.
During project implementation the growth in CONAMA's recurring staff and administrative costs was primarily
financed through counterpart funding, although it is also clear that some consultants engaged for specific studies
assisted CONAMA in various staff functions as well. In terms of recruitment and staff development, there is
now a much more formal human resources department and training program in place than was possible during
the commission's early years of rapid growth.
Component A.2-Legal Regulatory Framework: At the beginning of the project Chile had more than 2,000
environment-related regulations established under about 700 laws and decrees, yet there was no clear
institutional responsibility for environment. The project helped address this situation by supporting development
of the General Environmental Framework Law (Law No. 19.300), which took effect in March 1994. The law
regulates fundamental .aspects of environmental matters by (i) defining key concepts such as environment,
biodiversity, pollution, environmental heritage conservation, nature conservation, environmental impact, and
environmental damage; (ii) establishing environmental management tools; (iii) clarifying responsibilities with
respect to ordinary civil responsibility as well as responsibility for environmental damage; and (iv) creating a
state institutional framework-CONAMA-that is responsible for environmental issues.
The legislation built an incentive system that is based on command-and-control instruments, but also includes
the possibility of using economic instruments (though they do not currently exist). The law also envisioned four
supplementary, sector-specific laws, but these lacked political support and have never been implemented (the
Forestry Law has languished in Congress since 1992). Instead of pressing for these sectoral laws, CONAMA has
concentrated on developing high-priority regulations in the three main areas where the legislation granted the
commission specific powers: (i) managing the EIA process and clearing new projects; (ii) setting environmental
standards and norms; and (iii) drafting and enforcing decontamination plans for the most highly polluted areas in
the country.
Stakeholders see the legal regulatory framework as an excellent foundation that has produced tangible results,
but which needs to be updated soon, particularly with respect to the EIA process and CONAMA's
administrative organization. Currently only the decontamination plans have a compliance monitoring system.
However, CONAMA is developing a more comprehensive system, including compliance monitoring for the
sectors, and is also planning to prepare a National Report on Enforcement. Furthermore, training was conducted
on environmental law, and Chile has signed most international environmental conventions and has improved its
capacity to participate in international environmental initiatives. CONAMA, through a permanent committee,
works closely with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to monitor implementation of international commitments by
the sector agencies. This component also benefited from additional Canadian support within the context of
NAFTA preparations.
Component A.3-Environmental Impact Assessment System (EIA): The project succeeded in supporting a
successful consultative process of establishing EIA rules and procedures that now carry the force of law. It also
financed limited EIA training activities in the mid-1990s (although EIA training programs were discontinued,
and are scheduled to be restarted this year). Approximately 1,896 EIAs have been processed since 1997, the year
6



the bylaws went into effect, and only about 20 CONAMA decisions have been contested in the courts. By all
accounts -- private sector, government agencies, NGOs, and CONAMA itself -- the process works adequately.
Some shortcomings that have been recognized will be addressed through modifying the bylaws and eventual
amending the environmental law itself. (These modifications will address such issues as the criteria for
determining which projects require EIAs; the scope, methods, and timing of public participation; the more
explicit incorporation of social concerns, including resettlement; and CONAMA's intended role as a "one-stop
shop" for all project permitting requirements, whether environment-related or not.)
However, the most fundamental problem with the EIA process-lack of national policies for resource use in
areas such as water, land, forestry, fisheries, biodiversity, and mining-has more to do with the sectoral
ministries than with CONAMA. Having such policies would provide a clearer basis for reviewing and clearing
new investment projects. Without clear national guidelines, CONAMA must try to apply its best judgement on a
project-by-project basis, and is open to public criticism. This problem was beyond the original scope of the
project, although it could have been pursued more vigorously following the midterm review.
Component A.4-Training and Awareness:
4.1 Trainingfor Public Sector Professionals
The performance capabilities of public sector personnel involved in managing environmental activities has
improved markedly, but this cannot be attributed to activities under this project component. The component
design was very detailed at the level of targets but not very clear in terms of needs and strategy, therefore
implementation did not follow the original structure. The component envisioned a Training Program in
Environmental Management for Public Sector Professionals as well as study visits and fellowships abroad, but
these were not realized. The only activities conducted under this component were those directly related to a
series of basic, intermediate, and advanced courses in environmental management developed in collaboration
with a local NGO. Two-day courses for about 1,500 professionals were conducted nationwide in 1995 and 1996
in collaboration with local universities, but only for the basic and intermediate levels. A positive side effect was
that these courses apparently triggered interest in developing environment curricula in local universities. The
impact of this one time effort, however, does not go beyond awareness raising. Various other training courses
are developed and organized by CONAMA, but under specific subtopics, mostly in EIA and legislation. The
Inter-American Development Bank also financed a training program for pollution management.
4.2 Environmental Awareness
Outputs achieved under this component include establishment of a documentation center in Santiago,
publication of printed texts and videos, and implementation of about 30 locally designed projects in regions IV,
V, and X, as well as one in the Santiago Metropolitan Area that fostered citizen participation in solving specific
environmental problems at the community level. One activity that was not implemented was a consciousness-
raising and education program on environmental matters. The impact of this component has been mixed. The
community-level projects, though not formally evaluated, provided CONAMA with useful experience in
implementing these types of projects. This experience was helpful in designing the Fund for Environmental
Protection, which was set up with national financing in 1997 and has supported about 400 similar projects.
Environmental awareness in Chile has generally increased in the past ten years. This is reflected by the fact that
there is (i) a greater number environmental NGOs; (ii) more community participation in the EIA consultation
process; (iii) an increase in the number of environmental consultants; and (iv) a greater number and diversity of
environmental courses offered by local universities. However, the activities implemented under this component
made only a minimal contribution to this change. Finally, the CONAMA web page, though financed under a
separate component, has had a considerable impact on informing the public about environmental problems and
solutions, and thus has helped achieve the original objectives of this component.
Component A.5-Environmental Information System: Chile has developed, and to a substantial degree
started implementing, an environmental information system that contributes to decisionmaking at the sectoral
7



and regional level through (i) disseminating information, (ii) managing basic information, and (iii) developing a
set of sustainable development indicators. These are the three characteristics considered essential for an
effective system. The system is regionalized, it has substantially increased transparency through easy public
access, and it has contributed to a culture of improved information-sharing.
Information dissemination through the web pages of CONAMA and the Environmental Information System
(SINIA), which is managed by CONAMA, is highly satisfactory. They contribute to the transparency of the EIA
process by posting a considerable amount of information on the World Wide Web, including the complete EIA
studies (even in draft form). The web site is also used for consultations, for example during development of
standards. On average the web site receives 3,800 visitors per month.
The challenge for SINIA is to go beyond compiling information and move towardmanaging it by selecting and
defining the information that best contributes to strategic decisionmaking. A virtual network has been
established that links the databases of more than 30 public institutions, 400 companies, and many other
institutions. In total SINIA manages more than 14,000 html pages of environmental information. Together with
the National Statistics Institute, CONAMA has published "Environmental Statistics 1994-1998." This is an
important step, but the information does not yet have the quality to substantially contribute to decisionmaking in
environmental conservation and preservation.
A success story with respect to generating and managing strategic information is the native forestry cadastre
financed by the project under Component B.1. CONAMA also has published "Regional Sustainable
Development Indicators," which includes a good methodology, but in most cases lacks the data needed to define
the indicators clearly. A recommendation that has been made ever since project preparation is to publish a
"National Report on the State of the Environment" along the same lines as the national reports published by
other sectors, but such a report still has not been completed. Component A.5 was completely redesigned during
implementation to take advantage of rapidly evolving information technology and the World Wide Web. The
component financed all hardware and software available in CONAMA, as well as studies and consultants. The
component also benefited from technical and financial support from Canada and Japan.
Component A.6-Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues: An important goal of the Bank project was
to raise awareness of the use of economic analysis and economic instruments for improved environmental
management, and to help CONAMA create an in-house capacity for this work. This has been accomplished by
the creation, expansion, and "mainstreaming" of the Unidad de Economia Ambiental (the Unit). The Unit was
set up in November 1994 and has produced more than 25 studies on a variety of topics, from the use of tradable
permits to valuation methodology (see Annex 6). It currently has five staff (four professionals and a secretary).
A number of staff members have received extemal training. The Unit produces both paper reports and electronic
versions of all its studies, and these are made available on the CONAMA web site.
The biggest challenge for the Unit has been to link the results of its studies more closely to the process of policy
formulation. In the past a number of the studies, while technically well done, have had only limited impact on
the policy process. One exception is in the area of "Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards," where the
Unit has played an active role in assessing the economic benefits and costs of proposed norms, standards, and
decontamination plans. In the future the Unit plans to link its research program more directly to key policy areas
in CONAMA's work plan and tailor outputs directly to the policy debate. In addition, Unit members need to be
able to devote more of their own time to carrying out the studies, rather than managing the work of outside
consultants.
An important indicator of the success of this component is that CONAMA has accepted the need for the Unit
and has substantially increased its resources. Whereas the original project design had only modest resources to
support economic studies ($300,000), during project implementation this function was formalized in the Unit
and its budget was increased to over $1,180,000. The Unit has now become a core part of the CONAMA
8



structure and is supported through regular budget allocation. For the year 2000 the Unit's budget is more than
$160,000 ($90,000 for studies and the rest for staffing and other costs.)
The one failure under this component was a study on resource accounting conducted jointly with a newly
established resource accounting unit in the Central Bank of Chile. The initial study focused on the native forest
sector (with additional work on the mining and fishery sector), and because of restrictions imposed on the
dissemination of results for peer review, the report first received public notice through a "leaked" copy in the
national press. Due to data and methodological errors, the results were quickly contested by the forestry
industry, an uproar resulted, and the head of the resource accounting unit was fired. Limited additional work on
environmental accounts consisted of studies carried out by the Environmental Economics Unit of CONAMA for
the Central Bank on water and soils resources. At present the Resource Accounting Unit of the Central Bank is
largely inactive, and resource accounting is not part of the Central Bank's work on national accounts.
Component A.7-Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards: Following the midterm review, the
project introduced a new component designed to help establish environmental and emissions standards (norms)
and prepare plans for decontamination of highly polluted areas. This component partially assumed work
assigned to the Industrial Sector component, and partially recognized CONAMA's need for support in
establishing norms across many other sectors besides industry. Bylaws for framing norms were approved in late
1995. Between 1996 and the end of 1999 the project helped finance work on 20 national norms (out of 31 that
are on the complete list of norms scheduled to be drafted), of which 14 have been approved. During these years,
CONAMA's role in coordinating the technical input from consultant studies, government review, and public
consultation, even though at a much slower pace than expected at the beginning, has earned widespread respect.
The principles used to establish norms are some of the latest worldwide (allowing for flexibility in standards
based on the carrying capacity of the receiving bodies), and are beginning to incorporate greater use of
economic instruments (such as in encouraging offset agreements for water pollution as well as air pollution).
In parallel with the work on norms, the project has helped finance CONAMA's role in developing
"Decontamination Plans" for areas designated as highly polluted. (To date, these "zonas saturadas" only include
areas with air pollution problems.) Since these decontamination plans are the responsibility of the regional
CONAMA offices in which the polluted areas are located, this component has helped support the regional
offices. The next phase for these plans will more forcefully and more pro-actively ensure public participation in
both the preparation and enforcement of the plans.
B. Strengthening the Borrower's ability to evaluate and manage priority environmental problems in selected
sectors:
Component B.1-Native Forestry Cadastre: Chile has important forest resources (both native forests and the
rapidly growing plantation sector) that are the focus of continuing debate over their management and use. A new
forestry law has been under discussion for several years. Because data on the type and coverage of forests are
lacking, the project identified a forestry component centered on the cadastre of all forests in Chile. This highly
successful activity was a multiyear, multimillion dollar component that included complete aerial mapping of all
forest areas in Chile, and production of detailed maps containing information on forest and vegetative cover and
type, elevation, and the location of roads and other features. This activity was carried out by CONAF (the
National Forest Corporation) and its prime contractor, the Universidad Austral de Chile in Valdivia.
The cadastre was carried out successfully, and in fact the coverage and level of detail exceeded initial plans.
Chile now has excellent baseline data for this key economic and environmental resource. In addition, since
information technology costs dropped sharply during this period, the results are now available at all 50 CONAF
offices nationwide, rather than at just the 13 regional offices as initially planned. At present CONAF is
implementing the follow-up monitoring and information-updating part of the activity. The proposed institutional
study was dropped after discussions with CONAMA led to the decision that this study was not required.
9



The only issue surrounding the cadastre is that of access to the underlying digital data base. At present CONAF
treats this as proprietary knowledge, and will sell maps and derived products, but not the raw data. This is a
common modus operandi for many government institutions. Sale of information is often a notable source of
budgetary income. Making the raw data more widely available in the future is worth considering, especially in
an alliance with INFOR (the Forestry Research Institute) and the private sector. Any decision on this can only
be made at the ministerial level.
Component B.2-Control of Industrial Pollution: Under the original design of this component, most of the
activities were satisfactorily completed. These included several diagnostics of industrial emissions, as well as a
manual on industrial solid waste management. Prior to full completion of the second phase, which involved the
application of these inventories and the development of action plans, the design of this component was changed
significantly to instead promote cleaner production activities.' The studies from phase one, however, were used
in the development of standards under Component A.7. Outputs relating to clean production clearly have had an
impact, despite the short time period. A second round of clean production awards and a second clean production
month were recently implemented from non-Bank funds. Furthermore, seven voluntary agreements have been
signed with different industrial sectors, and a new fund for clean production has been designed.
The sustainability of these activities is promising because the Ministry of Economy has assigned a continuing
budget for them, and the cleaner production agreements themselves allude to a short-, medium-, and long-term
time frame. Further, the fact that they are being promoted by the Ministry of Economy, rather than CONAMA,
is also important for creating greater interest in the private sector and thus achieving potentially greater impact.
Due to the change in component design, the environmental unit in the Ministry of Economy, which was created
at the start of the project, was closed down and replaced by an Executive Secretariat of Cleaner Production. The
capacity of this current secretariat is strong.
Component B.3-Control of Mining Pollution: The outputs under this component, namely a set of norms and
standards related to effluent discharge, solid waste disposal, and mine abandonment, and a training program,
were not achieved. The only area where limited progress was made is with respect to mine abandonment
regulation, which is currently under development following a study financed by the Bank on this subject in
1997. The environment unit in the Ministry of Mines, which was in existence prior to project preparation, is
weak and does not appear to have benefited in terms of capacity-building from this component.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
Development of new or less costly technology had a positive impact on project implementation under two
components. The design of the Environmental Information System (Component A.5) changed completely with
the opportunity to use a system that would be Internet-based and would work as a virtual network. It was a
positive change as the new design turned out to be more appropriate and will be less costly to maintain. The
Native Forestry Cadastre (Component B. 1) has benefited from cost reduction in the technology it uses (e.g. GIS
system).
I. Outputs from the second phase of this component include (i) a training and awareness raising program for the public and
private sectors, including publication of a clean production manual, technical guides, design and implementation of a web
page, implementation of a national clean production month, and design of an award for clean production; (ii) developing
the basis for public-private sector clean production voluntary agreements; and (iii) studies to evaluate how to promote clean
production through existing regulations and financial instruments.
110



5.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
Frequent turnover of CONAM4's Executive Director disrupted continuity because each director brought
different priorities and agendas to the organization. The period under President Frei saw three different
directors, which coincided with the period during which CONAMA had to prove its role in spite of political
opposition. It is important to highlight that CONAMA's credibility is quite heavily dependent on the political
commitment of the president and the Secretary General of the Presidency (SEGPRES) under which CONAMA
is organizationally placed. Table 2 below gives an overview and Annex 11 provides an outline CONAMA's
structure.
The delay in developing sector laws (e.g. natural resources) and in passing laws (e.g. the Forestry Law) can be
attributed to government control. The sector ministries, and not CONAMA, are responsible for promulgating
sector laws. Environment has not been among their priorities to date, and the political cost of noncompliance is
considered low. CONAMA can attempt to promote an environmental agenda in these productive sectors, but its
political influence within government depends largely on the Secretary General of the Presidency and the
President of the Republic.
Table 2. Turnover in the Leadership of CONAMA and other Key Institutions
Function                                            Period                              Officeholder
President of the Republic                         1990-94                      Patricio Aylwin Azocar
1994-2000                    Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle
2000-06                      Ricardo Lagos Escobar
. ..........  - . - - ........... .. . .  ............... ..... ........ ..... ............ .... ... . ........ .... ........................ .....   ............ ............ ...... .. ........  -  .... --.-_.-_-,__-._-
Minister of Finance                               1990-94                      Alejandro Foxley
1994-2000                    Eduardo Aninat
2000-                        Nicolas Eyzaguirre
....................... .......... ..........................................I........... ................................. ... ................ ........................................   ........................................................ ...........
Executive Director of CONAMA                      1990-94                      Rafael Asenjo
1994-95                      Jose Gofli
1995-97                      Vivianne Blanlot
1997-2000                    Rodrigo Egafla
2000-                        Adriana Hoffmann
..............I.................................................................................................................................................. ........................ ................................................   ........
Secretary General of the                          1990-94                      Edgardo Boenninger
Presidency (SEGPRES)                              1994-96                      Genaro Arriagada
1996-98                      Juan Villarzu
1998-99                      John Biehl
1999-2000                    Jose Miguel Insulza
2000-                        Alvaro Garcia
................. I........................................................................................................................................................... .. .......... .. ............................... ......................
Vice-Minister of the Secretary                    1990-94                      Ricardo Solari
General of the Presidency                         1994-95                      Angel Flisfich
(SEGPRES)                                         1995-96                      Jorge Rosembluth
1996-99                      Sergio Galilea
1999-2000                    Carlos Carmona
2000-                        Eduardo Dockendorff
Enforcement of EIAs is almost entirely in the hands of the respective sector agency. While CONAMA is
effectively in charge of the EIA decisionmaking process, its role during implementation of the EIA decision is
limited to monitoring. The system is still too new to establish a track record on this issue, but it is viewed as a
challenge because noncompliance fees are disproportionately low.
11



5.3 Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: CONAMA
Changes in the project implementation unit affected performance with respect to the quality of reporting,
dialogue with the Bank, and the availability of documentation. This resulted in a decline in the previously high
standard set during the initial years of implementation. While the project had seen a total of five different project
coordinators during its cycle, the influence of the first and last coordinators was marginal because they were
only involved for a few months each.
CONAMA lacks an overall strategy with clear priorities despite its overall commendable achievements. This put
great discretion in the hands of each director and frequently resulted in priorities being shifted between
components.
Quality of studies and programs was not always of the highest standard. In a few cases insufficiently qualified
staff were assigned to tasks, consultants were contracted who were not the most appropriately qualified, and the
peer review system was not as rigorous as it could have been. Furthermore, CONAMA often missed the
opportunity to select consultants and seek expertise at the international level, an option the project was
specifically designed to include.
Inadequate attention was given to education and awareness raising activities. This is particularly regrettable
given its relative importance to CONAMA's mandate of coordination between public entities and promotion of
the environment agenda inside government and throughout the society.
Compliance with covenants. CONAMA has generally complied with all covenants under the Loan Agreement,
with the exception of covenant 3.06 (a) and (b) which has been partially complied with. Under this covenant,
CONAMA had agreed to submit to the Bank for its review the environmental standards for both the
Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards and the Mining Components, as well as take all measures to
implement these standards. For the Mining Component, these standards were not prepared. Although the
covenants on reporting requirements (for yearly audit, programming, and progress reports) have been complied
with, they have often been complied with after delay.
5.4 Costs and Financing
Once the loan became effective, expansion of CONAMA 's staff and budget resources occurred fairly quickly.
The project's financial resources played an important catalytic role in financing the newly created CONAMA
administration. The Bank's share of financing was administered flexibly, which allowed CONAMA to weather
difficult periods with the Ministry of Finance, particularly at the beginning of the project. Other donors also
entered and began to support discrete activities within the overall framework of CONAMA's development,
which surpassed expectations (see Project Performance Indicators in Annex 1).
Disbursement schedule was overly ambitious for a newly created public administration, which resulted in two
project extensions. In 1993, during the first year of the project, an insufficient allocation of Bank and
counterpart funds seriously delayed the implementation of the activities designed to strengthen the central
institutional responsibilities of CONAMA. MoF had allocated about $1.8 million to the project ($1 million from
Bank funds), which was far from the original amount committed during negotiations ($5.5 million). Of the
amount allocated, the majority ($1.5 million) was assigned to the project's sectoral activities. The government
was reluctant to allocate funds to CONAMA while the Framework Law (which would give CONAMA legal
standing) was awaiting approval in Congress, and also because of its concerns about macroeconomic conditions.
Another hurdle that needed to be overcome was the initial hesitancy of the sectoral ministries to collaborate with
CONAMA. By the end of 1994, Bank disbursements had reached only 6 percent of the loan amount, compared
to an expected 52 percent. However, this did not affect CONAMA because the government had increased its
own budget allocations to CONAMA, for both the project and the institution's overall budget, from only
12



$500,000 in 1993, to $8 million in 1994. In fact, CONAMA was only able to spend $1.9 million of its own
resources on the project in 1994 because the young institution could not absorb such a large budget increase so
quickly. By the end of 1996, Bank disbursements reached over 50 percent of the loan amount ($6.83 million).
For the remainder of project implementation, disbursements and government counterpart funds were both
allocated and spent in a timely manner. Two requests for an extension of the project closing date were granted in
December 1997, through an amendment to the Loan Agreement, and May 1999, via a notice to the Borrower,
because by then CONAMA's track record proved its ability use the resources as planned.
Changes in cost structure due to new component and priority setting. In mid-1996, the Bank cleared
CONAMA's proposal for a new component, "Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards," with an
estimated cost of almost $2.9 million. Financing for this was taken primarily from the EIA component ($2.6
million). Furthermore, the component on "Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues" received an additional
$800,000, which was shifted from the component on "Environmental Training of the Public Sector" as it had not
progressed as planned.
Other Donor Support. Chile garnered an impressive amount of multilateral and bilateral donor support for its
environment program, totaling over US$105.8 million over the life of the project. Donor support was one of the
project's key performance indicators, and as shown in Annex 1, Table 1 this indicator vastly exceeded
expectations. Many of these programs did not directly benefit CONAMA, but did support sectoral agencies'
environmental programs. This support represented approximately 10 percent of the entire donor cooperation that
Chile received for development programs. CONAMA itself did receive sustained support from other donors,
primarily for its air pollution programs. A listing of CONAMA's programs that have been supported by other
donors is presented in Annex 1, Table 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating: Highly Likely
Sustainability of CONAMA. The public sector has firmly put legal underpinnings under improved environmental
management, through a General Framework Law and three legal regulations on policy instruments (EIA, Plans
and Norms). These major achievements seem to be widely supported in Chile, with no chance of their being
reversed. Rather, CONAMA's effort now is to sustain these achievements by (i) further operationalizing the law
through more regulations and preparation of sector laws, and (ii) to update the Framework Law. An important
indicator for the robustness and irreversibility of the main achievements under this project is the fact that they
have survived a period where the political commitment for environment was weak. It also demonstrates that
overall public awareness on environmental matters has increased, and that this has also influenced the political
agenda. Slowly but increasingly, Chilean politicians have discovered the environment as a platform for building
a constituency. The diminishing importance of the project funds for CONAMA's budget further demonstrates
the Chilean government's willingness to sustain investments made in public environmental management.
Finally, the recent appointment of a nationally prominent environmental activist as Director of CONAMA
demonstrates confidence by the Chilean government on the issue.
Sustainability of sector components. The sustainability of the activities carried out under the forestry and
industry sector components will be ensured, since the objectives of these activities are consistent with the
general objectives of each ministry. The Ministry of Industry has developed a track record of continuing and
expanding the activities initiated under the project with its own resources. The native forestry cadastre is an
important tool for planning and the information contained therein is in strong demand by the public sector (from
the national to the local level) as well as by the private sector and NGOs.
13



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Identification and Preparation: Highly Satisfactory
An active partner. The project was identified as part of the program discussions with the new government of
President Aylwin in 1990. Since environmental issues had been neglected under the previous military regime,
and since Chile was a major exporting country with increasing flows of foreign investment, the need for clear
and practical environmental guidelines were an important need of the new government. The Bank responded
quickly to the initial requests and several missions visited Chile in 1990 and 1991 to identify and prepare the
project. The preparation team was multidisciplinary and drew on individuals with comparative experience in
various countries in the region and elsewhere. The Bank team worked closely with key Chilean officials.
(CONAMA had fewer than five staff members at time so most of the Bank's contacts were with individuals in
various sectoral agencies, research institutions, and selected ministries.) Appraisal took place in July 1990, but
the project was not approved until November, 1992. The use of a PPF facility allowed expenditures to begin
before the project was finally approved and became effective in February, 1993.
7.2 Supervision: Partially Satisfactory
Supervision in a narrow sense was adequate, but a limited budget and lack of attention resulted in a lost
opportunity. The Bank met its formal supervision requirements during project implementation: providing timely
responses and action letters to requests, meeting internal reporting deadlines, selecting Task Managers with
appropriate skills, etc. Audit Reviews, however, experienced some inconsistencies with respect to their
timeliness and their comments. These inconsistencies resulted from changes in audit review procedures and
staffing. The project was consistently rated satisfactory during implementation and no flags were raised to upper
management for areas of concern or unsatisfactory performance. Due to the perception that this project had no
implementation difficulties and was achieving very successful results, it was given reduced supervision budgets,
which appear very low for at least five of the seven years of project implementation. This limited Bank
supervision staff's ability to maintain a close dialogue with the Borrower, who thus perceived the Bank as losing
interest in the project's outcomes. The ICR evaluation team were repeatedly informed by project stakeholders
that greater supervision involvement by the Bank would have resulted in better project implementation results.
In Chile, the environment was a new sector that required international expertise for its development and would
have benefited from the Bank's international knowledge. As the ICR shows, performance per component is
varied; greater supervision involvement by the Bank would have detected and reacted sooner to the problems
occurring with some components. It should be acknowledged that it is difficult to supervise a project that
encompasses such a broad range of environmental activities with a budget that only allows for approximately
two weeks of task management staff time and short missions. Although supervision missions took place
regularly, they were usually only three days on average (four days for the mid-term review) and did not allow
for an in-depth assessment of implementation progress or the involvement of mission members with technical
expertise complementary to that of the task manager.
The ICR Team believes that as a development institution the Bank has the obligation to supervise projects where
its guidance adds value, even if a project is rated successfully and especially when the client wants our guidance.
The young environment agency was conducting extensive analytical work on many fronts, asked for advice on
the technical and operational ramifications of the findings, was advancing a new decentralized model not tried
elsewhere, and was frustrated in not getting more from the Bank. The specific components that would have
benefited from improved supervision are:, environmental impact assessment, training and awareness, economic
analysis, environmental law, standards, mining, and industrial pollution. The benefits would have likely come in
the form of accelerated progress, more effective implementation, and better use of international best practice.
With the belief that supervision should be about a constructive on-going dialogue with the client and not only
14



about crisis prevention or crisis correction, the Bank has not performed satisfactorily. Advice was not given in a
timely fashion when problems arose or when outside guidance would have improved the work.
Continuity in task management during project life was satisfactory. The project had four task managers in total,
but two task managers covered most of the project's duration, and the other task managers were only involved
for a short time at the very beginning and end of the project. The first task manager was involved in project
initiation and early project preparation and the last took over only a few months before project closure. The final
task manager focused on dissemination of the project's outcomes and on CONAMA's participation in a jointly
organized "Client Workshop on the Institutional Dimension of Environmental Management" conducted in
collaboration with CEPAL and the IDB. The workshop provided an opportunity to share the project's
experiences with other Latin American countries.
7.3 Overall Bank Performance: Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation: Satisfactory
A committed and active partner. The Borrower was an active partner in project preparation but was limited by
the fact that it was an extremely new organization, it lacked staff and experience in this type of activity, and had
to contend with some political considerations that took time to resolve. The strong commitment of the President
of Chile and the Executive Director of CONAMA, were essential to this difficult period. CONAMA was
simultaneously trying to create an organization, design a work plan, recruit staff, and fight political battles over
political control and budgets. In addition, the high level of attention being given to the environment in Chile
(and global events like the Rio Earth Summit) all meant that these activities took place in a very visible and high
profile environment.
Given all of these limitations, the Borrower responded well to the demands of project preparation and was an
active partner in the process. The Borrower was more involved and more competent on the substantive side of
project preparation, and was relatively weaker on the administrative side. This is one of the reasons for the
delays in various project processing steps. The use of the PPF facility ($464,000), combined with modest
government resources of approximately $106,000 in the first few years, allowed work to begin in many areas,
including the sectoral components, even before the Bank's loan became effective. However, even the PPF took
some time to become effective: it was approved in July 1990 at appraisal, but only became effective in June
1991 when UNDP agreed to manage the funds on behalf of CONAMA.
7.5 Government Implementation Performance: Satisfactory
Initial delays in counterpart funding were balanced by counterpart contributions in the later years that went
considerably beyond what was envisaged during project design. The initial delays caused serious start-up
difficulties and were mainly due to overall budget concerns and internal political "chess playing." One of these
was the request by the MoF that the General Framework Law be passed before releasing funds for the locally
financed parts of the project. The loan disbursements were adjusted flexibly (the Bank contributed 87 percent of
project funds the first year of the project) and thus the impact did not seriously hamper project implementation.
Project funding difficulties were resolved about one year after project approval, and the government's budget
appropriations to CONAMA increased dramatically (from approximately $S00,000 in 1993 to $8 million in
1994).
Counterpart administrative procedures hampered the timelyflow of Bank resources. Part of project implementation
delay was due to the government's procedures for ToR contract approval-primarily by MIDEPLAN.
Approvals for investments including studies required approval by MIDEPLAN, the Budget Office, the Bank,
and finally the National Accounting Office. This process routinely took 6-9 months.
15



Timeliness of audits. Although audit reports were due by June 30 of each year, they were usually submitted in
August or September. In its review of the yearly audit reports, the Bank acknowledged that the reports met the
majority of the Bank's audit requirements, but reminded the Borrower of the auditor's responsibility in
examining and issuing an opinion on the adequacy of CONAMA's internal control structure with regard to the
project as well as in providing a summary of the procedures and scope of the audit. During the ICR mission,
CONAMA asked the Bank to direct these concerns to the Auditing Division of Contraloria General de la
RepuTblica, as this office is responsible for determining the content of all government audit reports. The Bank
subsequently submitted a letter to the Auditing Division in June 2000 and asked them to provide information on
the status of CONAMA's internal control deficiencies in their 1999 Audit Report for the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency: Satisfactory
Project management by CONAMA was satisfactory overall but notably diminished at the end. The PIU was
competently staffed and highly effective until the end of 1997. Early progress reporting was excellent but not
sustained over the life of the project. At the beginning there was some tension because the PIU acted like a
"shadow budget unit." The reason was that at the beginning the large majority of CONAMA resources came
from project resources and thus went through the PIU, thus influencing a lot of decisions. Over time these
tensions eventually diminished and were completely resolved when the PIU was integrated into the new
Planning and Monitoring Unit at the end of 1997. This was a prudent decision because project implementation
effectively took place in the respective working areas in CONAMA and the sector ministers. With this decision
the role and profile of the project coordinator changed, making him head of the new Planning and Monitoring
Unit as well. This resulted in the coordinator being responsible for administrative and reporting functions, while
being only marginally involved in the substantive aspects of the project, which by then were fully integrated into
the respective working areas. The Bank supported this strategic move. However, the opportunity was missed to
clarify Bank procedures and reporting requirements to the new CONAMA Director and the project coordinator.
This particularly affected financial reporting, and caused major problems both with reporting and lack of
documentation of project files at project closure. This can also be seen as total absorption of the project into the
CONAMA administration.
Coordination with the sector ministries was closely managed by the PIU at the beginning of the project, but the
PIU's oversight of sectoral components diminished toward the end. This is not considered problematic, as it
should be perceived as the sector agencies taking greater ownership of these components, with the exception of
the Ministry of Mining.
Financial management reporting had a mixed performance. With technical assistance provided by the Bank on
financial management procedures in 1994, CONAMA developed an excellent capacity to report on the project's
sources and uses of funds, and submitted this information to the Bank in its yearly project execution reports, as
well as to the General Accounting Office each March for their annual audit. Unfortunately CONAMA's
excellent track record was hampered when financial reporting was transferred to the newly created Planning and
Monitoring Unit in late 1997. CONAMA's project financial management suffered as a result: coding methods
for project expenditures were changed and it became less clear how the project's counterpart funds were used to
finance activities by component, as both the project's counterpart funds and CONAMA's national budget were
maintained in the same account in accordance with their national regulations.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
Projects that promote a cultural shift within government succeed better if the overall environment of societal
change supports them. TA projects that aim to establish a new government agenda (e.g., the environment) and a
16



new public authority to implement it, need public support that is profound enough to influence political
decisionmaking. To transform a general notion of public concern on environment into broad public support that
has political clout typically requires an event that affects the entire society, or at least large segments of it.
Otherwise, powerful and well-organized interest groups that perceive themselves as "losers," have demonstrated
a great ability to slow down the process and fragment reform efforts by lobbying only for their particular
interests. In the case of Chile, this catalyst was the transition to a democratic government that was expected to
be more responsive to the needs of the broad population. In other countries environmental disasters had such a
trigger effect.
Complexity of the project has to be commensurate with the capacity of the Borrower. Designing complex TA
projects requires a careful assessment of the Borrower's capacity to manage these different challenges. Chile
clearly has demonstrated that capacity. It matched the demanding project agenda with highly trained and highly
motivated people who stayed focused on the task. The same design with a weaker Borrower would have been
considered overly ambitious and unrealistic.
The importance of adequate supervision. Any technical assistance project involves uncertainty in the use of
resources, scope of technical work, quality of consultants, receptiveness of the borrowing agency to TA inputs,
and long-term commitment of the implementing agency to follow-up. For these reasons, TA has been described
as "a leap of faith." Because of this uncertainty, the best TA projects are those that are closely supervised and
enjoy close technical (as well as managerial) interactions with the Bank throughout the duration of project.
Without such interactions TA projects can become relatively unfocused, producing many outputs (for example,
lots of studies) but lacking clear strategic discipline, project follow-up, or development outcomes. World Bank
supervision of this project was inadequate because early in project implementation it stopped providing adequate
technical and strategic advice on the use of project resources. This left responsibility for the success of this "leap
of faith" entirely in the hands of CONAMA.
The World Bank and Project Implementation Units (PIUs) are not neutral, but rather can impact internal
institutional dynamics. In a technical assistance project designed to support an entire agency, the ideal scenario
is for the agency leadership and the World Bank-oriented PIU, and the World Bank to work seamlessly together.
However, in reality they risk being perceived as independent and separate, as was the cases at times in this
project. At an early stage the operating units of CONAMA became wary that the project had introduced not one
but two new hurdles to their work programs: first, the PIU had to agree to fund their proposed activities, and
second, the World Bank had to issue letters of no objection. Some CONAMA units refused to subject
themselves to this gauntlet, and insisted on using only national funds. The solution seems to lie in (i) ensuring
that the PIU (if required at all) is not an independent decision center, but rather a coordinating unit that helps
manage the project's resources as part of the agency's overall budgetary resources; (ii) ensuring close strategic
agreement between the implementing agency and the World Bank to form a strong enough strategy base that the
letters of no objection for individual activities are relatively pro formna; and (iii) ensuring high-quality World
Bank technical inputs so that conditional "no objections" (i.e., comments on ToRs that may lead to delays) are
seen as contributing value to the technical debate and not merely as obstructive bureaucratic requirements.
Continuity of key personnel is important. . . and helps. Some of the problems faced by the project stem from
frequent personnel changes, particularly in CONAMA and lesser so in the World Bank. During the life of the
project there were four different executive directors for CONAMA, five project coordinators, and four World
Bank task leaders. This lack of continuity effectively prevented the elaboration of a strategic management plan
for CONAMA that was focused on priority issues. Every agency has to battle ongoing short-term disruptions,
but this repeated turnover of key personnel, combined with the increasing politicization of environmental
management more generally in Chile, made it impossible to adopt and implement a coherent and consistent
strategy.
17



The World Bank's current focus on outcomes, as opposed to outputs, is an improvement over the previous style
ofproject design. In this project, both the objectives and indicators essentially focused on outputs, not outcomes.
As a result, while the project fully met its stated objectives, the more fundamental measure of "did the Chilean
environment improve?" was not applied. Although in the past implementing agencies for TA projects typically
were not held accountable for ultimate development outcomes, greater clarity on the expected outcomes-such
as in a Logical Framework format-would have-helped the project focus on more fundamental objectives.
Environmental management is a highly political topic that poses project risks. Political changes due to different
government administrations are common and can be expected in any borrower country. The topic of
environmental management in Chile became increasingly politicized over the course of this project. However,
during supervision the World Bank did not adequately assess the ongoing political changes so that, together with
the implementing agency, it could more explicitly reprioritize activities. Rather, the World Bank became less
engaged altogether, and some project activities became less focused and accountable.
Risk-taking in institutional development can pay off. This project embraced a decentralized, unproven, and
therefore risky vision of environmental management-a "mainstreaming" approach where fundamental
responsibility lies with the sectoral agencies rather than in a single environment ministry. In this model, while
CONAMA has significant tools at its disposal for inter-ministerial coordination, policy development, and
pollution prevention (through standards, EIA clearances, and decontamination plans), it has very weak
monitoring and enforcement roles or responsibilities. The project gave this model a fair test, and clear lessons
can be drawn. Now, following the design (1990-93), implementation (1994-97), and consolidation (1998-99),
phases of institutional development, Chile is now entering therevision phase of its environmental management
system. The commitment made early on by the World Bank was essential for convincing the government-
which was divided in its views on the merits of the model-to give it a fair test.
Institutional sustainability can be thought of differently. From the beginning, the project faced the risk that
CONAMA would not be sustainable once significant World Bank resources dried up. This did not happen. Even
though CONAMA faced difficult battles for national budget in the early years of the project, it has grown into a
stable and credible agency. As is typical of World Bank projects, the loan agreement called for a constant share
(35 percent) of counterpart funding over the life of the project. An alternative approach could have been to
introduce a specific sliding (and declining) scale for the share financed by the World Bank over the life of the
project. This would have allowed the Bank to provide a higher share of CONAMA's funding (perhaps 60-80
percent) when the agency's national financing was weak, and then reduced the level of Bank support (to 20-30
percent) when CONAMA had stronger govermnent funding. This could have allowed CONAMA to gear up
faster. (For example, the Bank anticipated an expenditure of $8.3 million in the first year of the project, whereas
it actually took three years to reach this level of disbursement. Part of this was a learning curve, certainly, but
another part was the severe restriction on counterpart funds to hire the staff required to manage the expenditure
of World Bank funds at the expected level.) Finally, a sliding scale would provide a clear incentive for the
agency to move toward local financial sustainability during the course of the project.
Environmental education is low-cost and high-return. Given the cross-sectoral and potentially political nature of
environmental management, public awareness is highly valuable, both for generating grassroots demand (and
political pressure) for improved -environmental management, and encouraging public participation in specific
environment activities (such as the EIA and decontamination plan processes in the case of Chile).
Adequately aligning sectoral and environmental objectives, particularly in the sectoral ministries is crucialfor
success. Investment promotion and regulation of the same activity by one institution clearly resulted in tensions,
and hence poor impact in the case of the mining and the initial industry components. However, the change in
design of the industry component from a regulatory function to a cleaner production focus was an improvement
because it was more in line with the ministry's main objective of promoting greater investment. Similarly, the
preparation of a forestry cadastre aided decisionmaking in the National Forestry Service (CONAF).
18



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agency
CONAMA shares the Bank's evaluation findings presented in the Draft ICR Report. CONAMA considers the
project a success, since Chile now has a functioning environmental management system with clear
responsibilities and public sector capacity. It wants to build on the success achieved and further invest in
improvements.
With respect to Component A.4 (Training and Awareness) and its unsatisfactory rating, CONAMA would like
to note that its performance suffered because it was a young institution with a very demanding agenda. It had to
prioritize its actions and it decided that training would be carried out once principal environmental management
tools had been established.
With respect to financial management reporting, CONAMA would like to point out that its decision to integrate
the PIU into a Planning and Monitoring Unit two years ago was based on the need to consolidate its internal
administration. By that time, Bank resources represented only a small part of the budget and they were
integrated into CONAMA's overall financial reports to the Contraloria General, which followed Contraloria's
requirements for public sector administration. CONAMA kindly requests that the Bank decide jointly with
Contraloria General on the reporting requirements in order for CONAMA to be able to respond.
19



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1: Project Performance Indicators as established in the SAR
Key Project                Baseline -             SAR Indicators             Actual Results
Performance Indicators         At Appraisal
Real increase of Public and   0 ElAs carried out.    32% Increase over life of    By December 1999, 1,873
Private sector projects being                                project.           ElAs carried out for public
subject to Environmental                                                        and private sector projects.
Impact Assessments
* An increase of 1,873 ElAs
over the life of project.
Real growth of donors' and   Approx. US$20,300,000   35% Increase over life of    By December 1998, donors
Bilateral Agencies'                                          project.           and bilateral agencies had
contributions to implement                                                     contributed US$105,782,940
Environmental Program in
Chile.                                                                          * Over a 500% increase
over life of project.
Recurrent Cost Budget in            N/A             Increase of US$37 million    By 1998, US$ 302 million
the Public Sector for     (Baseline data not in SAR)    over life of project.
Environmental Protection.                                                       * Increase of over US$211
million over life of project.
Real increase of                     6                   Increase of 450      By 1999,4,758 professionals
Professionals with                                   professionals over life of    with environmental
Environmental                                               project.           management responsibilities
Management                                                                        in the public sector.
Responsibilities in the
Public Sector.                                                                   * Increase of over 4,752
professionals, a ten-fold
increase over the target.
Real increase of Specialized         2               Increase of 30 specialized  By 1999, 14 specialized
Environmental Units in                               environmental units over     environmental units.
Public Sector Entities.                                  life of project.
20



Table 2: Contribution by Donors and Bilateral Agencies for CONAMA's Environmental Programs
Area                Year of        Donor                    Project               Donor Support
Inception
Agriculture and Forestry        1999          Montreal          Demonstration Project on        $348,000
Protocol      Alternatives in Soil Treatment for
Tomato and Pepper Production
Air Pollution                   1994       Germany (GTZ)        Technical Assistance for       $2,013,000
Environmental Decontamination
Plan (PPDA) (Stage I)
1997        Switzerland     Air Quality Monitoring in Urban    $483,100
(COSUDE)               Industrial Areas
1998      Sweden (ASDI)       Strengthening of Air Quality     $700,000
Information System
1998        Switzerland     Monitoring and Modeling of Air     $351,400
(COSUDE)            Quality in Talcahuano
1998      Germany (GTZ)    Technical Assistance for PPDA      $2,300,000
(Stage II)
1998      Sweden (ASDI)   Pilot Program to Introduce Natural   $980,000
Gas Buses in the Metropolitan
Region
1998      Sweden (ASDI)    Management of Public Transport      $700,000
Service
1998      Sweden (ASDI)  Program on Regulation of Transport     $71,750
to Reduce Emissions
Biodiversity                    1999            GEF         National Biodiversity Strategy and  $271,000
Action Plan
Climate Change                  1993         U.S. Dept.       Climate Change Cooperation         $76,500
of Energy &              Agreement
EPA
1997           GEF         Training for Compliance with UN     $350,000
Convention on Climate Change
1999        U.S. Dept.       Climate Change Cooperation        $225,000
of Energy &              Agreement
EPA
Solid Waste                     1991        Netherlands     Environmental Management Plan      $1,000,000
for the Metropolitan Region
1994       Netherlands       Management of Environmental       $700,000
Management Plan for the
Metropolitan Region (Stage II)
1996       Netherlands    Enforcement, Pollution Control and   $1,700,000
Environmental Management in the
Metropolitan Region
Miscellaneous                   1997       European Union     Urban Parks, Forestation and      $1,072,727
Environmental Education
TOTAL                                                                      $13,34i2,477
21



Table 3: Component Performance Indicators
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSRI                    Actual
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING:
1. Strengthening CONAMA's Organization                          S                                S
2. Legal Regulatory Framework                                   S                                HS
3. Environmental Impact Assessment                             HS                                HS
4. Environmental Education and Awareness                        S                                U
4.1. Environmental Education in the Public Sector
4.2. Environmental Awareness
5. Environmental Information System                            HS                                S
6. Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues                   HS                                S
7. Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards                 S                                 S
B. PRIORITY SECTOR ACTIVITIES:
1. Native Forest Cadastre                                       S                               HS
2. Control of Industry Pollution                               HS                                 S
3. Control of Mining Pollution                                  S                                U
I End of project
22



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1: Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal                   Actual
Estimate
Project Cost By Component                         US$ million                US$ million
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING:
I. Strengthening CONAMA's Technical Secretariat                           11.66                       14.35
2. Legal Regulatory Framework                                              0.86                        0.80
3. Environmental Assessment                                                6.95                        3.30
4. Enviromnental Training and Awareness                                    3.84                        2.28
4.1. Environmental Management Training in the Public Sector            (2.77)                      (1.62)
4.2. Environmental Awareness                                           (1.07)                      (0.66)
5. Environmental Information System                                       1.25                        0.76
6. Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues                              0.34                         1.18
7. Plans and Norms                                                                                    2.22
B. PRIORITY SECTOR ACTIVITIES:
1. Native Forest Cadastre                                                  5.39                        4.79
2. Control of Industry Pollution                                           2.02                        1.77
3. Control of Mining Pollution                                             0.47                        0.68
PPF                                                                                                    0.57
Total Project Costs                            32.70                        32.7
Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement       Methodl
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB             Other2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Goods                               0.85             1.35             0.23           0.00           2.43
(0.65)           (0.76)          (0.17)         (0.00)         (1.58)
2. Services                            0.00             0.00             13.25          0.00           13.25
(Technical Assistance and          (0.00)           (0.00)           (9.19)         (0.00)         (9.19)
Studies)
3. Training                            0.00             0.00             5.11           0.00           5.11
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.73)         (0.00)         (0.73)
4. Community Pilot Projects            0.00             0.00             0.00           0.22           0.22
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Incremental Recurrent               0.00             0.00             0.00           11.77          11.77
Expenditures                          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                                0.85             1.35            18.59          11.99          32.78
(0.65)           (0.76)         (10.09)         (0.00)        (11.50)
23



Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement        Method'
Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB              Other2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
1. Goods                                  0.00               1.32             1.02            0.00            2.34
(0.00)            (1.10)            (0.43)          (0.00)          (1.53)
2. Services                               0.00               0.00             20.90           0.00            20.90
(Technical Assistance and Studies)       (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.95)          (0.00)          (9.95)
3. Training                               0.00               0.00             0.00             1.71            1.71
(0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Community Pilot Projects               0.00               0.00             0.00            0.18            0.18
(0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Incremental Recurrent                  0.00               0.00             0.00            7.56             7.56
Expenditures                             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                                  0.00               1.32             21.92           9.45            32.69
(0.00)            (1.10)           (10.38)          (0.00)         (11.48)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management
office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to
local government units.
Table 4: Project Financing by Category (US$ million equivalent)
Category               Appraisal Estimate                Actual             Percentage of Appraisal
Bank          Govt.         Bank          Govt.         Bank         Govt.
Consultancy Services            0.76          3.13          0.20          7.39          26.3
Studies and Fellowships         9.16          0.93          9.28          3.49         101.3
Goods                           1.58          0.85           1.53         0.81          96.8
Community Pilot Projects                      0.22                        0.18          0.0
Training                                                                   1.71
Recurrent Expenditures                                                                  0.0
- Salaries                                 8.85                        4.77          0.0
- Operation                                2.92                        2.79          0.0
Refunding of Project                                        0.47          0.07
Preparation Advance
Total                                  11.48         21.22
24



Annex 3: Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
Month/Year                    Count                Specialty           Implementation     Development
Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 1990                  1         Senior Economist
July 1990                 I         Sr. Environmental Economist
May 1991                   1        Sr. Environmental Economist
1        Senior Economist
1        Environ. Assessment Expert
December 1991             1         Division Chief
I        Pr. Operations Officer
Supervision
January 1993              1         Pr. Operations Officer
March - May 1993          1         Pr. Operations Officer
May - June 1993           1         Pr. Operations Officer                   S               S
I        Sr. Environmental Economist
November 1993              1        Pr. Environmental Economist              S               S
October - November 1994    1        Pr. Environmental Specialist             S               S
I        Education Specialist
I        Consultant
November 1994              1        Pr. Environmental Economist              S               S
I        Economist
July 1995                 2         Pr. Environ. Specialists                 S               S
I        Pr. Environ. Economist
1        Consultant
December 1995             1         Pr. Environmental Specialist             S               S
May - June 1996           1         Pr. Environmental Specialist             S               S
I        Consultant
April 1997                1         Pr. Environmental Specialist             S               S
July 1997                 1         Economist                                S               S
October 19971             1         Pr. Environmental Specialist             S               S
I        Environmental Specialist
May 19981                 1         Pr. Environmental Specialist             S               S
1        Projects Assistant
April 1999                1         Economist                                S               S
I        Lead Specialist
I        Projects Assistant
October 1999              1         Economist                                S               S
I        Sector Leader
I        Projects Assistant
ICR
May 2000                  1         Economist                                S               S
I        Lead Economist
I        Principal Environmental Economist
1        Environmental Specialist
I        Operations Analyst
No Aide Memoire/BTO available for these missions.
25



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                        Planned                          Actual
________________________     Weeks           US$000s          Weeks          US$000s
Identification                                                                7.8            20.2
Preparation                                                                 115.2           299.3
Appraisal/Negotiations                                                       26.9            63.0
Supervision
FY93                                                                        6.3            18.3
FY94                                                                        6.2            19.8
FY95                                                                       17.6            59.9
FY96                                      18.6             63.4            16.0            63.2
FY97                                      10.0             38.0             5.5           20.0
FY98                                       9.0             29.9            10.6            32.7
FY99                                       7.0             19.7             4.8           21.5
FY00                                       4.4             20.0             4.4    Approx. 20.0
ICR                                          16.0            76.0            17.6    Approx. 86.0
(26.0 originally
assigned and an
additional 50.0
shifted from
preparation of
follow-on project
due to nature of
an Intensive
Learning ICR)
TOTAL                                                                      238.9           723.9
26



Annex 4. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro Policies                                                        Not applicable
Sector Policies                                                       Not applicable
Physical                                                              Not applicable
Financial                                                             Not applicable
Institutional Development                                                 High
Environmental                                                           Substantial
Social : Community pilots and civil society participation                Modest
Private sector development                                            Not applicable
Public sector management                                                Substantial
Annex 5. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
Identification:                                    HS
Preparation assistance:                            HS
Appraisal:                                         HS
Supervision:                               Partially Satisfactory'
6.2 Boryowerperformance                           Rating
Preparation:                                        S
Implementation:                                     S
Covenant Compliance:                                S
Operation:         _na
'After consulting with the LAC Quality Enhancement Team, and since no objections were raised by OCS, the ICR Team
considers Pardally Satisfactory the appropriate rating. In the absence of this category, it would be rated Unsatisfactory.
27



Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents
STUDIES and PUBLICATIONS
Component A.1 - Strengthening of CONAMA's Organization
Financed studies that were initially not considered in the Project:
I. Analysis of National Policy on Noise Control (96-97)
2. Development of a Territorial Information Instrument for urban and rural planning (96-97)
3. Analysis of regulations on fuel use (CADE IDEPE, 96-97)
4. Studies on characterization of carbon and particulate matter in Santiago (97)
5. Air quality recuperation program for the Metropolitan Region (Universidad de Chile, 97)
6. Advisory support to the Decontamination Unit (97)
7. Updating photography of native vegetation coverage (96)
8. Study on air and water monitoring networks (S.G.S. Chile, 97)
9. Plan on closing solid waste dumps (Universidad Catolica de Valparaiso, 97)
10. Procedures and technical norms for setting latent and saturated zones (CIMM, 97)
11. Technical/economic analysis of water emissions (TESAM S.A., 97)
12. Study on water quality norms (Kristal Ltda., 97)
13. Decontamination plan for Potrerillos (ERM Chile, 97)
14. Environmental quality diagnostic and decontamination plan for Rio Damas (Centro EULA, 97)
15. Study on methodologies for the environmental norms program (Universidad Catolica de Chile, 97)
16. Study on methodologies for the design of operational plans to confront emergency situations (CCA Ingenieros, 97)
17. Policy proposal on the management of dangerous chemical wastes (AMBAR S.A., 97)
18. Study on decontamination of copper quarries (Universidad de Chile, 97)
19. Characterization of typical soils and their treatment (Knight Piesold S.A., 97)
20. Study on ruling for classification of species (Carlos Prado, 97)
21. Communication strategy for the Metropolitan Region (Feoback Communicaciones, 97)
Component A.2 - Legal Regulatory Framework
Legal Information System:
I. Study on modifications to existing legislation and new legislation (Rafael Valenzuela, 94)
2. Legal study for the identification and execution of an environmental legal information system (Enrique Gallardo, 94)
3. Computational system for the recording, maintenance, and updating of environmental legal information (ELITSIS Ltda., 94)
Administrative Legislation:
1. Diagnostic on environmental competencies and administrative procedures (Rafael Valenzuela, 94-95)
2. Preliminary diagnostic on legal planning applicable to biological diversity protection (Sergio Praus, 96)
3. Environmental administrative procedures on soils (Sergio Praus, 96)
4. Study on agricultural and urban use of soils: environmental competencies of ministries and state services with respect to
legislation (Sergio Praus, 96)
Environmental Framework Law:
1. Study on the application of the Environmental Framework Law (Sergio Praus, 94)
2. Study on the application of the Environmental Framework Law and the development of regulations for enviromnental
quality norms (Femando Toledo, 94)
3. Study on the application of the Environmental Framework Law and development of regulations for decontamination and
prevention plans (Fernando Toledo, 94)
4. Identification, evaluation and harmonization of national environmental legislation (U. Diego Portales, 97)
Other:
1. Diagnostic study and analysis of environmental penal legislation (C.J.A. Consultores, 94-95)
2. Diagnostic study and analysis on environmental incentives and disincentives (C.J.A. Consultores, 94-95)
3. Study on environmental administrative procedures regarding water (Sergio Praus, 96)
4. Proposal for strategic norms to control aquatic pollution (Sergio Praus, 96)
28



5. Prevention of potable water and sewage pollution (Sergio Praus, 96)
6. Study on punitive environmental legislation regarding water quality (Sergio Praus, 97)
7. Study on punitive environmental legislation regarding air qulality (Sergio Praus, 97)
8. Study on punitive environmental legislation regarding protected forest areas (Sergio Praus, 97)
9. Study on punitive environmental legislation regarding fauna (Sergio Praus, 97)
10. Study on punitive environmental legislation regarding flora (Sergio Praus, 97)
11. Study on punitive environmental legislation regarding soil (Sergio Praus, 97)
12. Study of legal rulings on solid waste management in Chile (Sergio Praus, 97)
International Environmental Law
1. Study on international environmental rights and analysis of current international conventions and agreements on
environment (C.J.A. Consultores, 95-96)
Component A.3 - Environmental Impact Assessment System
Defining Criteria:
1. Analysis of the criteria for the EIA and support for the design of a global EIA system (Jose Leal, 94)
2. Analysis of environmental criteria used in the EIA system (Tesam Hartley, 94-95)
3. Methodologies of control, environmental enforcement, and environmental audits (SGS Chile Ltda., 95)
Procedures:
1. Study on type and source of regional environmental information and procedures for the EIA system (Hugo Romero, 94)
2. Analysis of the administrative procedures for the EIA system (Geotecnica, 94-95)
3. Methodological guidelines for the review of EIAs for specific project types:
Methodological guidelines for oil pipeline project (96)
Methodological guidelines for forestry development (TESAM S.A., 96-97)
Methodological guidelines for projects producing toxic substances (TESAM S.A., 97)
Methodological guidelines for projects using water resources in their cultivating/processing (96)
Methodological guidelines for agricultural factory and industry projects (Intec. Chile, 96-97)
Methodological guidelines for hydrobiological projects (U. Austral, 97)
Methodological guidelines for environmental sanitation (U. de Chile, 97)
Methodological guidelines for pulp and paper projects (Centro EULA, 97)
Methodological guidelines for bus terminal projects (AMBAR S.A., 97)
Methodological guidelines for sustainable tourism projects (TESAM S.A., 97)
4. Publication of EIA Methodologies (TESAM S.A., 97)
5. Studies to review EIAs that respond to the specific technical requirements at the central and regional levels (98)
Institutional Changes:
1. Analysis of the institutional needs and changes for the EIA system (Dames & Moore, 94)
2. Study on environmental permits for the EIA system (Cristiin Franz, 94)
Regulation:
1. Study on the development of regulations for the EIA system (Patricio Vallespin, 94)
2. Analysis of the regulations for the EIA system (Dames & Moore, 94)
3. Study on the establishment of a program of Environmental Quality Norms (95)
Training:
1. Study on training needs for implementing the EIA system (Ernst Hajek, 94)
2. Diagnostic on the curriculum design for EIA instructors (Dames & Moore, 94)
3. Inventory on Existing Experts and Implementation of a database (95)
4. Preparation and publication of EIA methodologies (Tesam S.A., 95)
Other:
1. Study on development of a program to establish environmental quality norms (Tesam S.A., 95)
29



Component A.4 - Environmental Training and Awareness
4.1. - Environmental Management Training for the Public Sector
Studies:
1. Study on the training needs for a program on environmental management education and training for the public sector
(Universidad Austral de Chile, 94)
Program Definition:
1. Design and implementation of the process of adjudication and control of the studies on the Training Program (Araceli
de Tezanos, 94)
2. Analysis of the detailed definition of the training program in environmental management for the public sector (Ecologia
y Desarrollo, 95)
Evaluation:
1. Analysis of a design for the evaluation system for the training program (Universidad Austral de Chile, 94)
4.2 - Environmental Awareness
1. Study to prepare and apply a "Program of Citizen Participation for the EIA System." (Cooperaci6n de Educaci6n, 97-98)
Component A.5 - Environmental Information System (SINIA)
System Design and Implementation:
1. Study on the design of a National Environmental Information System (Electrowatt Ingenieros, 94-95)
2. Study on the technological platform to support the SINIA system (Datatek, 97)
3. Gathering EIA information for the SINIA system (J.C. Aravena, 97)
4. Gathering of CONAMA studies for the SINIA system (Javier Haresi, 97)
5. Improving the legislation information module (Intermedia Ltda., 97)
6. Study on organization of workshops to disseminate SINIA (98)
7. Study on the graphic design and construction of a SINIA regional module for the website, adaptable for other regions
(98)
8. Study on the graphic design and construction of an information display module for the website (98)
9. Study, design and development of an enviromnental yearbook (98)
10. Estudio realizaci6n de taller de difusi6n del estado actual de desarrollo del SINIA Jefes de Servicios con injerencia
amnbiental
It. Edici6n e impresi6n publicaci6n "Presentaci6n y estado actual de SINIA"
Component A.6 - Economic Analysis of Environmental Issues
National Economic Studies:
I. Diagnostic of public sector expenditures on environmental management (CEGADES, 94-95)
2. Design of a tradable permits system (Universidad de Chile, 95)
3. Analysis of the impact of environmental regulations on employment policies in small and medium-sized industries
(95-96)
4. Economic valuation of biodiversity: elements for a protection strategy (Edmundo Claro, 96)
5. Economic valuation of pollution and mitigation measures (96)
6. Definition of environmental quality and emission norms (96-97)
7. Formulation of environmental decontamination plans (96-97)
8. Development of methodologies for the economic valuation of enviromnental impacts (Universidad Catolica de Chile,
96-98)
9. Development of methodologies for the economic valuation of environmental standards (Universidad de Chile, 96-97)
10. Design of a variable tariff system in the management of household wastes (Universidad Catolica de Chile, 96-97)
11. Study on sustainable development indicators at the sectoral and regional level (Universidad Bolivariana, 97-98)
30



12. Study on economic disincentive instruments in the control and enforcement of urban pollution problems (Universidad
de Chile, 97-98)
13. Study on economic instruments for the control of industrial and mining effluents in surface and ground water
(AMBAR, 97-98)
14. Development of environmental economic statistics to support the general analysis of the economic and social impact of
prevention and decontamnination plans and of environmental quality norms (98)
15. Development of environmental accounts for Chilean water resources (98)
16. Proposal on the reform of the existing tax and subsidy system and defmition of ecological taxes to support sustainable
development (98)
17. Development of a proposal to apply a transferable emission permit system to the Metropolitan Region, within the
context of stages 2 and 3 of the Decontamination Plan (98)
International Economic Studies:
1. Diagnostic on the impact of possible environmental restrictions on the Chilean export sector (Centro EULA-Chile,
94-95)
Component A.7 - Decontamination Plans and Emission Standards
I . Analysis of supporting information for the implementation of a program on primary norms for environmental quality
and emissions (bidding 96)
2. Design, evaluation of improvement of air and water monitoring networks (bidding 96)
3. Methodology for the design of operational plans for critical areas (air and water) (96)
4. Decontamination of state copper mining quarries (96)
5. Program for the environmental recuperation of Talcahuano (96)
6. Study for generating technical support information to develop a decontamination plan for Caletones (96)
7. Study for generating economic supporting information for development of a decontamination plan for Caletones (96)
8. Design of a plan to close and rehabilitate areas used as solid waste sites (bidding 96)
9. Procedures and norms for saturated areas (bidding 96)
10. Technical/Economic analysis of the application of norms on surface water (bidding 96)
11. Technical/Economic analysis of application of norms on water quality (bidding 96)
12. Technical/economic analysis of application of norms on solid waste emissions
13. Air quality norms for determined uses
14. Decontamination plan for Potrerillos
15. Analysis of national policy on environmental noise control (Ambiente Consultores, 96)
16. Norms and plans economic evaluation manual (Universidad de Chile, 97)
Component B.1 - Native Forestry Cadastre
I. Updating photography of native vegetation coverage (Servicio Aerofotogrametrico F.A.CH., 94-96)
2. Cadastre and evaluation of native vegetation coverage (Consorcio Univ. Austral de Chile, 94-97)
3. Study and Development of a monitoring system for native vegetation formations (Universidad Austral, 95-97)
4. Cartography characterization of protected areas (CONAF, 97)
Component B.2 - Control of Industrial Pollution
Diagnostics and Methodologies:
1. Diagnostic and application of methodologies to determine gaseous industrial emissions and air quality (Dames &
Moore, 94-95)
1. I In Region V (CADE IDEPE Ing., 96-97)
1.2 In Region IX (96)
2. Diagnostic and application of methodologies to determine production of industrial solid wastes and their final placement
(CADE-IDEPE, 94-95)
2.1 In Region V (96)
2.2 In Region IX (96)
31



Policy Definition:
1. Development of a policy proposal for the control of water pollution from industrial sources (Tesam Hartley, 94-95)
2. Diagnostic of an integrated policy for industrial pollution control (Tesam Hartley, 94-95)
3. Diagnosis on environmental pollution problems stemming from industry (Tesam S.A., 97)
4. Design of a state strategy on the development of cleaner production (Fundaci6n Sercal, 97)
5. Study on implementing a voluntary pilot program (Intec, 97)
6. Study on a cleaner production training program (Universidad de Chile, 97)
7. Study on implementation of a cleaner production strategy (Soledad Larenas, 97)
Other:
1. Development of a manual for solid waste management (Fernando Alliende, 94-95)
2. Cleaner Production Manual (97)
3. Development of a Voluntary Pilot Program (97)
4. Perfecting the regulatory system for cleaner production and efficient energy use (98-99)
5. Financial or fiscal assistance for modifying existing plants to achieve environmental improvement (98-99)
Component B.3 - Control of Mining Pollution
Feasibility Studies:
I. Basic study for the use of waters from the Pampa Austral mines, from the Salvador Division of Codelco Chile
(Geotecnica Consultores, 94-96)
2. Evaluation of the environmental impact of tailing discharges in the coastal area of Chaflaral and a proposal for
mitigation methods (95-97)
3. Development of a generic environmental analysis, applicable to small mining companies (95-96)
4. Diagnostic of Air Quality in Region III (CIMM, 96-98)
5. Analysis and proposal of norms on mine abandonment (Dictuc, 96-97)
32



Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Results
SEMINAR ON ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN CHILE: REFLECTIONS ON THE EVOLUTION
OF INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
MAY 22,2000- SANTIAGO DE CHILE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
L Background and Methodology
Thirty-six professionals, from the private and public sectors, academia, NGOs and bilateral and multinational
organizations, met on May 22, 2000 to reflect on the evolution of environmental management in Chile over the
past ten years and to evaluate how the Bank's Environmental Institutions Development Program has contributed
to environmental management in the short, medium and long term. A speaker from each of the areas
represented-civil society, private sector, consulting firms, and public sector-gave a brief presentation,
analyzing how the environmental management process has contributed to building ties with their respective
area. After each presentation, the workshop participants discussed their views on the speakers' assessments. A
workshop facilitator kept note of the participants' viewpoints with respect to which aspects should be re-
evaluated, further explored, and/or included in the dialogue on Chile's environmental management process. For
the purpose of this annex the discussion by representatives of the civil society and the private sector were
selected from all together five sectorial presentations.
Int'l Community        Central Gov't
liament
Participants by Area    Academidem
-]Consultants
Private Sec_
al/Regional Gov't
NGOs
II. Evolution of Environmental Management in Chile
In his introduction to the workshop, the facilitator presented an overview of Chile's advancement in
environmental management over the past ten years, which is summarized in the table below.
Relevant Indicators                     Beginning of 1990            End of 1999
CONAMA's Yearly Budget                    .US$ 76,000         Approximately US$ 21 million
in 1999
Public Sector Resources for Environmental  No data available       US$ 289 million
Protection
CONAMA Personnel                            6 people                 370 people
Professionals with Environmental Management  No data available      4,758 people
Responsibilities in Public Personnel
Environmental Units in Public Sector Entities  2                        10
NGOs working on Environmental Issues          27                        60
Public and Private Sector Projects subject to ElAs  0                  1,873
33



Relevant Indicators                   Beginning of 1990         End of 1999
ElAs Approved during the past Ten Years     0                      1,137
Decontamination Plans                       0                       8
Enactment of Regulations and Standards      0                       8
Fornal Citizen Participation Events         0                       4
(ElAs, regulations, plians, consultative
meetings)
Citizens who view Environment as a Priority  12%                    7%
Environmental Consultancy Firms             5                      >50
III, Civil Society's Perspective
Ximena Abogabir, representing Chile's civil society, noted that the country's previous two Concertaci6n
administrations have not sufficiently taken advantage of Chile's social capital in addressing environmental
problems. She expressed civil society's optimism at the beginning of the decade for greater collaboration
between environmental NGOs and the Government to combat environmental problems, resulting from Earth
Day celebrations in 1990, the formation of a Citizen Action Group for the Environment (ACPEM), a meeting
held between President Aylwin and 150 civil society members, diverse awareness-raising events held after the
Rio Summit in 1992, and meetings held in 1992 with CONAMA to establish a methodology and program for
NGO participation in Agenda 21. This optimism diminished a bit during the remainder of the decade, however,
as the new administration gradually made environmental concerns less of a priority and was perceived to put
less trust in the people's ability to work toward improved environmental quality. NGOs found it difficult to
participate actively in discussions on the new Environmental Framework Law. Although NGOs were
represented under a newly formed Agenda 21 Council in mid-1994, by the end of 1994 NGOs had ended their
working relationship with CONAMA on the Council. Civil society felt that little of the intemational
cooperation received by the country was directed toward them. They also felt that the private sector had little
interest in gaining their input on the country's cleaner production programs. Despite the decade's challenges,
she added that there have been positive aspects, including training workshops for NGOs on project development
and management provided by the Council of the Americas and the Environmental Protection Fund. Ximena
Abogabir concluded that environmental outreach initiatives have been well though out, designed and
implemented, but not understood by the public. Improving the public's understanding remains one of the major
challenges for the future.
Ximena Abogabir's presentation generated the following comments on environmental aspects that need to be
explored further in Chile, as well as on environmental aspects that need to be re-evaluated within the dialogue
on environmental management:
Environmental aspects to be further explored:
* Public perception. Environment is only a secondary concern to the Chilean public, and the public seems
concerned about the environment only during environmental emergencies. To change public perception, a
cultural change is required.
*  NGOs role in outreach and bringing about a cultural change. Need for NGOs to capture greater community
support, as well as provide better representation. However, NGOs need to strengthen their capacity, which
will require more resources. There is also a shortage of instruments to bring about a cultural change.
Environmental aspects to be re-evaluated:
*  The presence of powerful organizations that defend private interests.
IV. Private Sector's Perspective
Jaime Dinamarca, offering a viewpoint from the private sector, perceived contradictions in the application of the
country's environmental laws, namely in regard to EIAs and environmental standards. He viewed the 14
34



ministries and 32 public services in Chile with environmental competencies to have ambiguous functions and
responsibilities and to lack coordination. He also perceived these authorities to make uneven environmental
demands toward the same types of industries and to make demands in some cases that went beyond their adverse
impact. Under the Environmental Framework Law, the EIA system has established the time periods for the
sectoral environmental authorities to present their environmental assessments to CONAMA's regional offices.
Dinamarca noted that these authorities often do not meet their deadline dates, which slows down the rate of
investment. The legitimacy of the EIA system has also been weakened by the central CONAMA office's
approval and rejection of investment projects on a political basis, rather than on the basis of the technical
evaluations carried out by environmental authorities. Dinamarca perceived these environmental authorities to
resist and to not fully understand the coordinating role of CONAMA. Despite these difficulties, he commended
the EIA system for rationalizing the environmental management of new investment projects through its creation
of a "single window" to approve new investment projects. Despite a few instances in which environmental
standards have been irregularly applied, he also expressed the private sector's support for the establishment of
environmental quality norms, which permit a precise definition of pollution and provide objective criteria to
evaluate the environmental impact of projects.
The main comments raised during Jaime Dinamarca's presentation included:
Environmental aspects to be further explored  Environmental aspects to be included in the
country's environmental dialogue
Perception that workers and NGOs have had limited   Need to reinforce the importance of decrees
involvement in environmental management.   restricting vehicle emissions
Greater public awareness is needed regarding the  Need for sectoral and regional initiatives in
environmental significance of a country that is a  environmental matters.
natural resources exporter
V. Lessons Learned
Luis Pisani, who had been Project's Task Manager during appraisal and negotiations, addressed the lessons
learned during the preparation of the Bank/CONAMA Project on Environmental Institutions Strengthening. He
expressed that the Bank project played a critical role in sustaining Chile's environmental management process,
as it was a primary financial contributor to CONAMA in its early stages and also helped sustain and validate an
innovative institutional model. He added that the Bank project also played a key part in the development of
Chile's Environmental Framework Law and providing the foundation for a discussion on the various
environmental management instruments to be included in this legal framework. Ultimately, the project's design
and strategy enabled a new environmental institutional system to take form and function in a relatively short
time. The following lessons learned were identified, which would have improved project implementation had
they been fully considered during preparation:
*  When an institutional policy framework does not exist, it is necessary to limit the project's objectives. It is
difficult to implement public policy in a new area when a tradition of coordination does not yet exist;
*  The project should have been more aggressive in promoting environmental awareness and creating alliances
to promote a consensus on environmental issues. In effect, a large part of the early resistance to the new
environmental structure was due to the private sector and community's lack of knowledge on the country's
environmental strategy and policies. In its early stages, the project should have focussed more on building
sectoral ties to clarify the distinct institutional and community roles in environmental management;
*  The project should have focussed more on human resource development, specifically with respect to
environmental decision makers in sector agencies. The project did not provide a deliberate plan to expose
these managers better to international experience and best practices, and these managers often learned from
the available courses and seminars provided by other sources of international cooperation.
35



Annex 8. Borrower ICR
Parte I. Informe Central
1.    Introducci6n
En este informe se da cuenta de los principales resultados y logros alcanzados por el proyecto para el
fortalecimiento de la institucionalidad ambiental chilena y la instalaci6n la gesti6n ambiental en el pais durante
los 6 afios de su duraci6n (1993-1999). Por otra parte, el informe presenta un detalle de las principales
actividades realizadas, en el marco de los componentes especificos disefnados bajo el proyecto, y los beneficios
alcanzados para la instalaci6n de la gesti6n ambiental, su institucionalidad y los diferentes instrumentos
disefiados para la protecci6n del medio ambiente y la conservaci6n de los recursos naturales. Finalmente, el
informe identifica el conjunto de factores que incidieron sobre el desempeflo del proyecto.
Se revis6 la documentaci6n disponible sobre el proyecto e informes de las misiones de supervisi6n del Banco y
de las actividades de CONAMA elaborados para diferentes fines, la cual fue proporcionada y preparada por
profesionales de CONAMA. Se realizaron 26 entrevistas a actores claves del proyecto (CONAMA nacional y
regional, servicios publicos participantes / beneficiarios del proyecto, y consultores involucrados en la
generaci6n de los productos relacionados con el proyecto, entre otros) para complementar la informaci6n
generada en el punto anterior y conocer los aportes en temas especificos, los logros en general, y los aciertos y
las dificultadas encontradas durante la ejecuci6n.
2.     Situaci6n Ambiental en Chile al Inicio del Proyecto
La creaci6n de CONAMA se inserta dentro de la situaci6n general del tema en el pais en 1990, el estado de la
problematica ambiental nacional y regional, y la ausencia de las condiciones adecuadas para enfrentar el tema
dentro del aparato estatal. En efecto, al inicio de la decada, el tema no era prioritario para la poblaci6n en
general, los partidos politicos y sus lideres no consideraban el tema dentro de las necesidades fundamentales de
la poblacion (priorizando la recuperaci6n de la democracia, la pobreza y la estabilidad econ6mica) y las
instituciones publicas presentaban vacios importantes y una desarticulaci6n en materia ambiental, que no
permitia resolver los problemas ambientales mas urgentes y sentar las bases para una gesti6n modema. Los
principales problemas detectados en 1990 para avanzar en la instalaci6n de la gesti6n ambiental se referian a los
siguientes aspectos:
Debilidad Institucional en el Sistema Ambiental.    El tema ambiental habia sido incorporado
implicitamente en distintos grados en las funciones regulatorias y en las politicas de desarrollo aplicadas por
el Estado, a traves de sus instituciones sectoriales. Sin embargo, al establecer en forma explicita la tematica
y los objetivos ambientales, se mostraron grandes deficiencias en la gesti6n producto fundamentalmente de
la escasa internalizaci6n por parte de la sociedad. Ello se puede fundamentar en los siguientes hechos
durante la epoca: (i) escasez de recursos administrativos, tecnol6gicos, humanos y financieros aplicados a
los problemas del area; (ii) falta de informaci6n adecuada para la toma de decisiones que afectan las
variables ambientales; (iii) escasas aplicaciones metodol6gicas de evaluaci6n y control de las intervenciones
36



humanas en el medio ambiente; (iv) falta de capacitaci6n de los recursos humanos; y (v) escasez de
iniciativas privadas y debilidad de la gesti6n ambiental puTblica.
Falta de Conocimiento Especifico sobre los Problemas Ambientales Prioritarios. Durante esa epoca se
habian detectado distintos problemas ambientales (se hablaba de 1.300 problemas o situaciones criticas) en
diversos grados de importancia. Sin embargo, las iniciativas surgidas como reacci6n a estos problemas
normalmente carecian de coordinaci6n entre los distintos agentes y existen riesgos definitivamente no
evaluados ni controlados. Se reconocia que la gesti6n de los riesgos ambientales requeria de recursos y
legislaciones multisectoriales dificiles de coordinar, el control en consecuencia era escaso o nulo. Esta
debilidad en la gesti6n de las variables ambientales habia producido una acumulaci6n de problemas que se
pueden dividir en tres tipos: (i) el manejo deficiente de los recursos naturales; (ii) la contaminaci6n del aire,
del agua y por residuos s6lidos; (iii) la administraci6n inadecuada del espacio territorial.
Teniendo presente la complejidad de los alcances y naturaleza del tema, y la estrecha interdependencia entre las
politicas puiblicas, CONAMA prioriz6 los siguientes temas generales:
*  Introducir la gesti6n ambiental en forma gradual, selectiva e inductiva, conforme a las prioridades que
emergen desde los niveles sectoriales y territoriales, tomando en cuenta que el pais se encontraba en un
proceso de modernizaci6n de su economia y que, al mismo tiempo, debia incorporar a un sector social que
habia quedado rezagado en la pobreza.
  Generar capacidades en gesti6n pu6blica ambiental, para coordinar los procesos de generaci6n de prioridades
y de compromisos con los distintos sectores de la sociedad, con el fin de corregir y prevenir problemas
ambientales en las areas de contaminaci6n, manejo racional de los recursos naturales y en el mejor
ordenamiento de la expansi6n urbana e industrial.
*  Coordinar los procesos de explicitaci6n de la politica ambiental bajo un esquema participativo, tratando de
establecer los consensos y compromisos con los diferentes sectores y respetando las reglas del juego
establecidas con el sector privado.
* Introducir la tematica ambiental en las distintas actividades econ6micas para corregir y prevenir problemas
ambientales, supeditando los cambios que surgieran a procesos progresivos de negociaci6n y consenso con
los distintos sectores y agentes econ6micos.
* Impulsar el desarrollo de capacidades institucionales para la gesti6n y administraci6n de la gesti6n
ambiental en el contexto de las reformas y modernizaci6n del Estado, en el marco de los esfuerzos de
democratizaci6n, de desconcentraci6n y regionalizaci6n.
3.     Descripci6n General del Proyecto CONAMA / BIRF
Con un aporte del BIRF de US$ 11,5 millones y Chile los restantes US$ 21,2 millones, se completa el monto de
US$ 32,7 millones que corresponde al total destinado al proyecto Su prop6sito fue contribuir a fortalecer la
institucionalidad ambiental del sector puiblico, de tal manera de obtener una mejor planificaci6n, programaci6n,
coordinaci6n y evaluaci6n de sus planes, programas y proyectos. Todo ello, con el fin de lograr un manejo
racional y sustentable de los recursos naturales, y una reducci6n adecuada de los niveles de contaminaci6n del
aire, del agua y por efecto de los residuos s6lidos. Particular menci6n tiene aca, la absoluta sobreposici6n entre
los mandatos de la Ley 19.300 y este proyecto de desarrollo institucional. Especificamente, el proyecto se
insert6 en los prop6sitos que CONAMA buscaba lograr en torno a: A) Establecer el marco institucional para
manejar la protecci6n ambiental y la conservaci6n de los recursos naturales mediante: (i) fortalecimiento de la
capacidad tecnica, administrativa y de manejo financiero de la STyA de CONAMA; (ii) actualizaci6n y puesta
en marcha del marco regulatorio ambiental; (iii) incorporaci6n de la ELA en los proyectos de inversi6n del sector
publico y privado; (iv) desarrollo de programas de capacitaci6n en el manejo ainbiental y recursos naturales; (v)
desarrollo de programas no-formales de educaci6n ambiental; (vi) implementaci6n de pequefnos proyectos al
nivel comunitario; (vii) establecimiento de un sistema de informaci6n ambiental; y (vii) desarrollo de un analisis
37



econ6mico de los problemas ambientales; y B) Fortalecer los sectores prioritarios involucrados en actividades
ambientales mediante: (i) mejoramiento de la calidad de los programas de manejo y conservaci6n del bosque
nativo; (ii) implementaci6n de estudios que conduzcan al desarrollo de una estrategia contra la contaminaci6n
industrial; (iii) apoyo a las iniciativas ambientales destinadas a reducir el impacto negativo de las actividades
mineras en el medio ambiente.
Cabe mencionar que producto de la evaluaci6n de medio termino del proyecto, se realiz6 una importante
reestructuraci6n de sus componentes y alcances, incorporando el Componente Estandares de Emisi6n y Planes
de Descontaminaci6n, en base a los ajustes de los componentes de EIA y Capacitaci6n. Durante esta
evaluaci6n, se rediseno el Componente sobre SINIA y el Componente relacionado con el sector industrial.
4.    Situaci6n del Pais Despues del Proyecto CONAMA / BIRF
Durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto, los grandes logros en materia de gesti6n ambiental y
fortalecimiento institucional impulsados por CONAMA, dicen relaci6n principalmente con la incorporaci6n de
la protecci6n del medio ambiente como una definici6n de politica, para lo cual se propuso un marco de
regulaci6n general sobre la protecci6n ambiental expresada en la Ley N 19.300 sobre Bases Generales del
Medio Ambiente (1994) y la Politica para un Desarrollo Sustentable (1998). Se dot6 al Estado de una
institucionalidad que se ocupara especificamente de los temas ambientales, a traves de CONAMA y los
servicios puiblicos con competencia ambiental, y se abri6 un espacio de acci6n dentro del Estado para los
asuntos ambientales, ante lo cual se establecieron funciones de coordinaci6n en CONAMA y de ejecuci6n en los
ministerios sectoriales. Tambien existen importantes aportes en la generaci6n de politicas ambientales
regionales y sectoriales (6 politicas regionales y 2 politicas sectoriales: agua y residuos), asi como en la
generaci6n de propuestas en materia de biodiversidad y conservaci6n de suelos.
Se hizo operativa la Ley N 19.300, con aprobaci6n de los reglamentos de EIA, normas de calidad ainbiental y
de emisi6n, planes de descontaminaci6n y prevenci6n. Se tomaron medidas de descontaminaci6n atmosferica en
Santiago que, aunque no ha mejorado la calidad del aire, al menos no la ha deteriorado aun mas con el
incremento del parque automotor que hoy es el doble de 1990. A lo anterior se incorporan los esfuerzos
realizados para descontaminar la ciudad de Talcahuano (Plan de recuperaci6n Ambiental de Talcahuano) y las
fundiciones mineras de Maria Elena-Pedro de Valdivia (PMIO), Chuquicamata (S02, PM10), Potrerillos (S02,
PMIO), Hermin Videla (S02), Ventanas (S02, PM 10), Caletones (S02, PMIO) y Chagres (S02).
Adicionalmente, entre 1997 y 1999 se han promulgado 8 normas de calidad ambiental y/o de emisi6n relativas a
descargas de residuos liquidos a aguas superficiales, regulaci6n de contaminante arsenico emitido al aire,
contaminaci6n luminica, compuestos fetidos asociados a la fabricaci6n de pulpa sulfatada, y material
particulado respirable PM10. En materia de EIA, la aprobaci6n del Reglamento de Sistema de EIA, permiti6
hacer obligatoria la revisi6n ambiental de los proyectos de inversi6n puiblicos y privados, bajo un procedimiento
unico y criterios para determinar el grado de afectaci6n de los componentes ambientales. Hasta fines de 1999,
han ingresado al Sistema mas de 1.800 proyectos de inversi6n.
Se gestaron acuerdos estrategicos con el sector privado, a traves de la negociaci6n con gremios empresariales, a
partir del cual el sector privado esta jugando un papel de importancia en la protecci6n ambiental (Ejemplo, el
Programa de Producci6n Limpia del Ministerio de Economia y las grandes compafnias transnacionales,
especialmente las mineras). Se tomaron medidas de descontaminaci6n atmosferica en Santiago que, aunque no
ha mejorado la calidad del aire, al menos no la ha deteriorado ain mis con el incremento del parque automotor,
que hoy es el doble de 1990.
La generaci6n y divulgaci6n de informaci6n ambiental en gesti6n ambiental tambien ha sido fortalecida con la
puesta en marcha del Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental, asi como con la generaci6n de importantes
estudios como el Perfil Ambiental de Chile y el Catastro de Bosque Nativo.
38



La sociedad civil en general a incrementado su nivel de concientizaci6n en materia ambiental, particularmente
debido a:
*  Esfuerzos de capacitaci6n en gesti6n ambiental para funcionarios puiblicos, representantes de los
medios de comunicaci6n, sector privado y organizaciones no gubemamentales.
*  Generaci6n de espacios de participaci6n ciudadana en la institucionalidad ambiental y en la
aplicaci6n de instrumentos de gesti6n ambiental.
*  Creaci6n del fondo de protecci6n ambiental y otros fondos para fomentar la participaci6n ciudadana
en la soluci6n de problemas ambientales.
*  Creaci6n de una sensibilidad nacional en el tema de la evaluaci6n ambiental, incluyendo
capacitaci6n de funcionarios publicos.
*  Actividades de difusi6n respecto a las acciones, mandatos y propuestas emanadas desde la
recientemente creada CONAMA.
Los indicadores mAs relevantes relacionados con la evaluaci6n de la gesti6n ambiental en Chile y que fueron
apoyados por las actividades del proyecto, se resumen en el Cuadrol.
CUADRO 1
Indicadores Relacionados con la Evoluci6n de la Gesti6n Ambiental en Chile
Al Inicio del Proyecto (1990)                      Despues del Proyecto (2000)
.  Ausencia politica ambiental explicita a nivel  .  Politica nacional publicada
nacional, regional y local               *  Politicas regionales (6)
*  Politicas sectoriales (aguas y residuos)
.  Dispersi6n de legislacion y normativa    *  Promulgaci6n de Ley N 19.300 sobre Bases del Medio
ambiental (alrededor de 1000 normas)        Ambiente, que ordena cuerpos legales presentes y futuros
*  Pocas instituciones con competencia      *  Se crean por ley instancias de caracter coordinador:
ambientales explicita                       1 CONAMA
13 COREMAS
*  17 Unidades Ambientales
*  25% de los municipios cuentan con unidades ambientales
.  Incipientes recursos fmancieros y tecnicos    *  Disponibilidad de recursos financieros y tecnicos
para impulsar actividades de proteccion
ambiental
-   Presupuesto CONAMA: US$ 76.000          -   US$ 21 mill (aproximado en 1999)
-   Recursos del Sector Publico en Temas    -   US$ 289 mill
Ambientales: Sin datos
-   Personal CONAMA: 6 personas             -   370 personas
-   Personal Publico Ambiental: Sin datos   -   4.758 personas
.  Ausencia de instrumentos de gesti6n      Disponibilidad de instrumentos:
ambiental                                *  SEIA
*  Normas y Planes
*  SINIA
*  Participaci6n ciudadana
*  Permisos de Emisi6n Transables
*  Instrumentos econ6micos (formalizados pero no
desarrollados)
*  Cuentas nacionales (formalizadas pero no desarrolladas)
*  Ausencia de diagn6sticos ambientales     *  Informe nacional sobre el estado del ambiente (en
preparaci6n)
.  Temas no prioritarios en sector privado, salvo  *  Introducci6n de consideraciones ambientales en sector
39



CUADRO 1
Indicadores Relacionados con la Evoluci6n de la Gesti6n Ambiental en Chile
Al Inicio del Proyecto (1990)                     Despues del Proyecto (2000)
en grandes compaflias trasnacionales        productivo. Creaci6n de comisiones ambientales en
diversas instituciones (ANCHAM, SOFOFA, SONAMI,
ASIQUIMICH, Camara de Comercio, Camara de la
Construcci6n, etc.)
*  7 Acuerdos Voluntarios Publico Privado
Falta de esfuerzos para involucrar      *  Espacios formales de participaci6n ciudadana en EIA y a
activamente a comunidad en la soluci6n de   formulaci6n de normas de calidad / emisi6n y planes de
problemas ambientales                       descontaminaci6n y prevenci6n
*  Creciente tendencia a aplicar conceptos de participaci6n
ciudadana anticipada al ingreso de proyectos de inversi6n
al SEIA
*  Instancia formal de participaci6n de la sociedad civil en
los Consejos Consultivos de CONAMA
*  Creaci6n del Fondo de Protecci6n Ambiental
(CONAMA) y otros fondos (Fondo de las Amdricas,
Fondo de Pequeflos Subsidios, PNUD)
Fuente: Elaboraci6n propia
Parte II. Resultados Especificos del Proyecto CONAMA / BIRF
l.     Tablas Resumen
CUADRO 2
Nuimero de Actividades Desarrolladas Bajo el Proyecto
Coniponentes             Estudios    Consultorias    Programas    Capacitaci6n
Talleres
1     Legislaci6n Ambiental                   15            64             34              12
2      EIA                                    34            54             30              35
3 y 5   Capacitaci6n y Sensibilizaci6n        3             34             30              38
4      Desarrollo de un SINIA                  7            18              0              0
6 y 7   Eco. y Est. de Emisi6n y Planes de    25            12              0              0
Descontaminaci6n
8      Fortalecirniento CONAMA                14            78              4              0
9      Sector Forestal                        7              1              0              0
10     Sector Minero                          6             0               0              0
11     Sector Industrial                      17            2               0              0
Totales    121           260             85             85
Fuente: Elaboraci6n propia.
2.     Resultados Alcanzados por Componente
2.1.    Programa de Legislaci6n Ambiental
Con el apoyo del proyecto, fue posible conocer y sistematizar las mas de 700 leyes y decretos de caracter
ambiental, constituyendo un Sistema Juridico Ambiental, en actual funcionamiento. Adicionalmente, se logr6
elaborar y tramitar la Ley N 19.300 sobre Bases Generales del Medio Ambiente. La ley establece un marco
40



general destinado a generar un proceso ordenador de la normativa ambiental existente y futura. Asimismo, crea
una institucionalidad ambiental coordinadora como la CONAMA y establece un conjunto de instrumentos de
gesti6n ambiental, tales como: (i) las normas primarias y secundarias de calidad; (ii) la educaci6n ambiental;
(iii) los planes de manejo, prevenci6n y descontaminaci6n (este instrumento permite el desarrollo de
mecanismos de mercado para la protecci6n ambiental); (iv) la Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental; (v) la
responsabilidad en materia ambiental; (vi) la fiscalizaci6n; y (vi) el fondo de protecci6n ambiental.
Asimismo, el proyecto permiti6 hacer operativa la Ley en cuanto se dictaron los siguientes reglamentos, en base
a estudios y consultorias de revisi6n de competencias y procedimientos administrativos:
*  Sistema de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental, promulgado el 3 de abril de 1997.
*  Dictaci6n de Normas de Calidad Ambiental y de Emisi6n, promulgado el 26 de octubre de 1995.
*  Procedimiento y etapas para establecer los Planes de Prevenci6n y Descontaminaci6n promulgado el 26 de
octubre de 1995.
*  Constituci6n del Consejo Consultivo de la Comisi6n Nacional y de las Comisiones Regionales de Medio
Ambiente, promulgado el 26 de octubre de 1995.
Este proceso estuvo acompafiado por un conjunto de iniciativas apoyadas por el proyecto para difundir a nivel
nacional los alcances de la ley y capacitar a actores relevantes en su manejo y aplicaci6n practica. Este proceso
fue acompafiado por publicaciones de difusi6n. Finalmente, bajo este componente se apoyaron los esfuerzos del
gobiemo de Chile en el campo internacional, particularrnente para armonizar los marcos regulatorios de Chile y
Canada dentro del Tratado de Libre Comercio ente ambos paises.
CUADRO 3
Resumen de Logros en Legislaci6n Ambiental
.  Aprobaci6n del Instructivo Presidencial "Pauta de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental para Proyectos de
Inversi6n
.  Promulgaci6n de Ley N 19.300 sobre Bases Generales del Medio Ambiente, creado la CONAMA e
instrumentos de gesti6n ambiental
.  Aprobaci6n Politica Ambiental para el Desarrollo Sustentable
.  Dictaci6n de Reglamento sobre el Sistema de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental
.  Dictaci6n de Reglamento para la elaboraci6n de Normas de Calidad Ambiental y de Emisi6n
*  Dictaci6n de Reglamento sobre Procedimiento y Etapas para establecer los Planes de Prevenci6n y
Descontaminaci6n
2.2.   Incorporacion de la EM a los Proyectos de Inversion Publico y Privado
El desarrollo del Sistema de EIA es quizas uno de los logros mAs interesantes vinculados a los aportes del
proyecto. Para este componente, el proyecto fue exitoso en generar los consensos necesarios para la aplicaci6n
de la EIA a proyectos de inversi6n publicos y privados y apoyar su aplicacion mediante la contrataci6n de
profesionales de apoyo para la revisi6n de documento sometidos al Sistema, la elaboraci6n de guias
metodologicas en area prioritarias, la difusi6n y capacitaci6n sobre la aplicaci6n de del Sistema de EIA al sector
publico y privado.
Por primera vez en el pais se cuenta con un procedimiento unico y conocido por todos los actores involucrados,
para velar por la sustentabilidad ambiental de las actividades humanas. De igual manea, por primera vez en
Chile se cuenta con instancias de participaci6n ciudadana establecidas en la etapa de revisi6n de los proyectos
de inversi6n, lo cual es reconocido por la sociedad civil como innovador e indispensable para cualquier
iniciativa que busque instalarse en un territorio determinado.
41



CUADRO 4
Resumen de Logros en EIA
. Constituci6n de Departamento de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental a nivel nacional y de unidades o
responsables a nivel regional y sectorial
* Elaboraci6n de guias metodol6gicas de temas relevantes, guias de elaboraci6n de Estudios de Impacto
Ambiental y de Declaraciones de Impacto Ambiental, documentos orientadores para el tratamiento de temas
culturales, etnicos, reasentamiento, y planes regulares
*  Programas de capacitaci6n para el sector puiblico en todas las regiones
Indicadores del Sistema                    Nuimero        Porcentaje (en relacion
al total presentado)
DIA       ETA       DIA         EIA
Estudios Presentados                                    1606      267        85,7         14,3
Estudios Aprobados                                       941       196       82,8         17,2
Estudios Rechazados                                       85        18       82,5         17,5
Proyectos que hacen seguimiento de planes de manejo      126       71        64,0         36,0
arnbiental una vez aprobados los estudios
Proyectos con sanciones / multas por no aplicar planes de  7       15        31,8         68,2
manejo una vez aprobados los estudios
Reclamos ejecutados por diversos actores a la decisi6n de  56       11       83,6         16,4
la autoridad_
Proyectos con participaci6n ciudadana en alguna etapa      -      267           -          100
Fuente: CONAMA, 2000
2.3.   Programa de Capacitaci6n en Gesti6n Ambientalpara el Sector Putblico
Bajo este componente, CONAMA ha logrado realizar un conjunto de actividades de capacitaci6n para el sector,
especialmente de caricter introductorio. Los esfuerzos de capacitaci6n al sector publico en gesti6n ambiental
han incluido cursos breves a nivel nacional sobre instrumentos de gesti6n ambiental, derecho ambiental y EIA.
Esfuerzos regionales de capacitaci6n para el sector puiblico se han concentrado en los siguientes temas: manejo,
uso y desarrollo de recursos hidricos en condiciones de escasez; analisis multicriterio; planificaci6n estrategica;
manejo de recursos hidricos; tratamiento de residuos solidos y liquidos; monitoreo ambiental, manejo del borde
costero; derecho del mar; gesti6n amnbiental minera; y contabilidad, administraci6n, computaci6n y estadisticas.
Adicionalmente, el proyecto financi6 diplomados y postitulos orientados a otros sectores involucrados en la
gesti6n ambiental, tales como ONG, dirigentes vecinales, y representantes empresariales. Los programas
desarrollados en este Ambito dicen relaci6n con economia ambiental y liderazgo ambiental.
Sin embargo, el componente no logr6 plenamente los resultados esperados, ya que no pudo despegar los
programas de capacitaci6n en el extranjero y pasantias, como un nivel de perfeccionamiento mayor al de los
cursos breves. Esta situaci6n no implica necesariamente que el recursos humano de CONAMA y sus servicios
publicos asociados carezcan de un entrenamiento adecuado, ya que producto de los esfuerzos iniciales del
proyecto, se ha ampliado la oferta de cursos y programas de especializaci6n en universidades nacionales y
profesionales de las instituciones publicas ambientales han participado en programas largos y pasantias en el
extranjero. Sin duda que el programa inicialmente propuesto en el proyecto sufri6 cambios debido a las nuevas
ofertas de programas nacionales y en el extranjero. Sin embrago, el componente no fue reestructurado
oportunamente y los esfuerzos de capacitaci6n no lograron los resultados deseados.
42



CUADRO 5
Logros del Programa de Capacitaci6n en Gestion Ambiental
Temas de Capacitaci6n                  Nuimero de         Cobertura
Programas
Instrumentos de gesti6n arnbiental                       6              Nacional
Derecho ambiental                                        7              Nacional
EIA                                                      14             Nacional
Manejo, uso y desarrollo de recursos hidricos en         1              Regional
condiciones de escasez
Analisis multicriterio                                   1              Regional
Planificaci6n estrategica                                1              Regional
Manejo de recursos hidricos                              I              Regional
Tratamiento de residuos s6lidos y liquidos               1              Regional
Monitoreo ambiental                                      1              Regional
Manejo del borde costero                                 1              Regional
Derecho del mar                                          1              Regional
Gesti6n ainbiental minera                                1              Regional
Contabilidad, administraci6n, computaci6n y estadisticas  4             Regional
Economia ambiental                                       1              Regional
Liderazgo ambiental                                      1              Regional
2.4.   Desarrollo de un Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental
En base a los compromisos especificos establecidos en la Politica Ambiental del Gobiemo y una de las
obligaciones de Ley 19.300, el proyecto permiti6 impulsar esfuerzos para el diseiio y puesta en macha del
SINIA, la cual se ha constituido en una herramienta fundamental de informaci6n y comunicaci6n para
CONAMA y los servicios piublicos con competencia ambiental. Por otra parte, el SINIA ha fortalecido la
participaci6n ciudadana en el marco de los instrumentos gesti6n amnbiental, particularmente la EIA, la normas de
emisi6n y calidad ambiental y los planes de prevenci6n y descontaminaci6n, mediante su divulgaci6n y
presentaci6n de observaci6n por via electr6nica.
El diseno, poblamiento y operatibizaci6n del SINIA se logr6 mediante el establecimiento de  convenios
institucionales que aseguraran el flujo permanente de informaci6n actualizada, el desarrollo en sus propias
paginas WEB, y ademas, para aquellas instituciones que no tenian la capacidad de crear paginas WEB con
informaci6n ambiental, la CONAMA proporcion6 las facilidades para su disenio.
Para ampliar, la cobertura del SINIA, se recopil6 inform aci6n ambiental local en seis regiones del pais, a saber:
Antofagasta (II), Atacama (III), del Maule (VII), del Bio-Bio (VIII), de la Araucania (IX) y de los Lagos (X).
Para estas regiones se construira y poblara un m6dulo regional de SINIA durante el primer semestre del 2000.
Finalmente, dado que Internet no esta disponible facilmente en todos los niveles de la comunidad nacional, se
gestion6 un convenio con el Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas, a traves del cual se confecciona, publica y
distribuya anualmente un documento con la informaci6n ambiental del pais que tiene caracter puiblico.
43



CUADRO 6
Logros del SINIA
Indicadores                                 Cantidades
Nimero de pagina WEB ambientales construidas para otras instituciones.  20.485
Numero de sitio WEB revisados y clasificados dentro de la metabase del   1.422
SINIA
Numero promedio de visitantes mensuales del sitio WEB del SINIA          3.800
Numero de Regiones a las cuales se les esta realizando un catastro de     6
informaci6n ambiental local, para la confecci6n de su propio M6dulo
Regional del SINIA.
Nuimero de instituciones contactadas para la realizaci6n de convenios.    32
Fuente: CONAMA, 2000
2.5.   Programa de Sensibilizaci6n en la Perspectiva de la Educaci6n Ambiental Modalidad Educaci6n No
Formal
El proyecto aport6 recursos financieros y asesoria tdcnica que permitieron sentar las bases para lo que hoy es el
Fondo de Protecci6n Ambiental, fuente de financiamiento para la realizaci6n de proyecto comunitarios
orientando a resolver problemas ambientales locales en forma participativa.
CUADRO 7
Logros del Programa de Sensibilizaci6n
Indicadores                                Cantidad
Documentos Publicados CONAMA                                  55 (aproximadamente)
Nuimero de Registros de Libros en Centro de Documentaci6n             1500
Proyectos Aprobados por el Fondo de Protecci6n Ambiental
I Concurso                                                            23
II Concurso                                                           58
III Concurso                                                          87
Nuimero de Titulos y Boletines de Revistas en Centro de Documentaci6n  100
Fuente: CONAMA 2000
2.6.   Promoci6n de la Introduccion de Conceptos Economicos en el Analisis y en la Toma de Decisiones
Ambientales del Sector Publico
Bajo este componente y con el apoyo del proyecto, se logr6 constituir una Unidad de Economia Ambiental
dentro de la estructura de CONAMA, con 5 profesionales, otorgandole el necesario perfil y apoyo institucional
al tema. Bajo esta unidad se han realizado importantes estudios para incluir consideraciones econ6micas en
todos los componentes de la politica ambiental, en particular en el desarrollo de los planes de prevenci6n y
descontaminacion (mediante un sistema de permisos de emisi6n transables), las normas de calidad ambiental y
de emisi6n y la EIA. Se ha logrado alcanzar un nivel de conocimiento adecuado en materia de instrumentos
alternativos de gesti6n ambiental, en particular incentivos de mercado, y se ha generado conocimiento para otras
opciones instrumentales, tales como: acuerdos voluntarios, sistemas de responsabilidad y sistemas de
informaci6n.
Menci6n parte amerita el programa de incorporaci6n de variables ambientales en las cuentas nacionales del
Banco Central. Este programa fue suprimido producto de que los primeros resultados mostrados sobre los
impactos ambientales y la sustentabilidad ambiental en el sector forestal, fueron altamente criticados por
44



sectores empresariales y directivos del Banco Central, con el consecuente retiro del apoyo institucional y
termino del programa.
CUADRO 8
Temas Analizados y Estudios Realizados Bajo el Componente de Conceptos Econ6micos
* Un sistema de tarificaci6n diferenciada para el manejo de residuos s6lidos domiciliarios en base a la cantidad
generada;
* Una propuesta de instrumentos econ6micos para el control de los efluentes industriales y mineros (RILES) en
aguas superficiales y subterraneas;
*  Una propuesta de aplicaci6n de desincentivos econ6micos en la fiscalizaci6n y sanci6n para el control de la
contaminaci6n urbana;
*  Una propuesta de instrumentos tributarios para la politica ambiental;
* Una propuesta de Sistema Nacional de Etiquetado Ambiental, para productos comercializados tanto a nivel
nacional como internacional;
* Una propuesta de Politica Nacional de Certificaci6n de la Calidad Ambiental;
*  Una propuesta metodol6gica para la valoraci6n econ6mica de impactos ambientales asociados al SEIA;
* Una propuesta de criterios e indicadores de desarrollo sustentable a niveles sectorial y regional; y
*  Una propuesta de sistema y calculo del gasto piiblico ambiental 1998 y presupuesto nacional ambiental 1999.
2.7.   Estcandares de Emision y Planes de Descontaminacion
Con el apoyo del proyecto, este componente logr6 apoyar sustancialmente los esfuerzo de CONAMA sobre la
elaboraci6n y dictaci6n de un conjunto de normas ambientales y planes de prevenci6n y descontaminaci6n. Bajo
este componente, se realizaron los estudios econ6micos y sociales, requeridos por ley para la elaboraci6n y
aprobaci6n de estos instrumentos de gesti6n. Especificamente y bajo el alero de la Unidad de Economia
Ambiental, el componente fue decisivo en la dictaci6n de las normas y planes (Cuadro 9).
CUADRO 9
Planes y Normas Desarrolladas con Aportes del Proyecto
*  Plan de Descontaminaci6n de Caletones
*  Plan de Prevenci6n y Descontaminaci6n de la Regi6n MetRopolitana
*  Plan de Descontaminacion de Potrerillos
*  Norma de Ruido de Fuentes Fijas
*  Norma de Emisi6n de RILES al Alcantarillado
*  Norma de Emisi6n de Residuos Liquidos a Cuerpos de Aguas Superficiales
*  Norma de Emisi6n Luminica para II III y IV Regiones
*  Norma de Emisi6n de Arsenico
*  Norma de Ernisi6n de TRS en Industrias de Celulosa
*  Norma de Calidad de Agua en Cuerpos de Aguas Continentales
*  Norma de Calidad Primaria de MP 10
*  Reglamento para Uso de Lodos Provenientes de Plantas de Tratamiento
*  Norma de Emisi6n de Material Particulado en el Valle del Huasco
2.8.   Fortalecimiento de la Direccion Nacional de la CONAMA
Es indudable que el apoyo del proyeeto permiti6 la constituci6n CONAMA como ente coordinador y articulador
de la gesti6n ambiental en el pais, otorgandole autonomia administrativa y financiera, procedimiento
administrativos, equipamiento, personal, y espacio de oficinas, tanto a nivel central como regional. De un
numero de 5 personas al inicio del proyecto, hoy dia CONAMA cuenta con un staff de aproximadamente 350
personas y 13 Direcciones Regional operativas.
45



En este sentido, el apoyo del proyecto permiti6 darle a CONAMA la necesaria continuidad para el desarrollo de
capacidades de gesti6n ambiental e independizarlo de las decisiones politicas coyunturales, tal como lo
demuestra el Cuadro 10 sobre aportes del proyecto al presupuesto anual de CONAMA.
CUADRO 10
Presupuesto CONAMA / BIRF
Aoo CONAMA   BLRF   Porcentaje   Afio  CONAMA   BIRF    Porcentaje
Miles US$   Miles       del            Miles US$ Miles US$       del
US$   Presupuesto                               Presupuesto
Total %                                 Total %
1990        75                0        1996    15.286      6.166      40,3
1991       146                0        1997    17.341      7.854      45,3
1992       218         -      0        1998    24.488      7.585      30,1
1993      1.039      442     42,5      1999    21.042      2.359      11,2
1994     9.658     2.867     29,7      2000    20.897          -       0
1995     10.112     5.460    54,0
Fuente: CONAMA, 2000.
La Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto, que producto del conocimiento adquirido y de la rigurosidad impuesta
por los procedimientos del Banco, se ha trasformado en una instancia permanente de planificaci6n y licitaci6n y
revisi6n tecnica de los estudios y consultoria que se desarrollan dentro de toda la instituci6n.
2.9.   Sector Forestal
La elaboraci6n del nuevo catastro de vegetacion nativa fue, sin dudas, uno de los aportes mas significativos del
proyecto a la gesti6n ambiental del pais. Desde hace mas de 50 afios que Chile no disponia de informacion que
pudiese verificar el estado de la vegetaci6n nativa. El catastro puso a disposicion del pais los antecedentes
basicos para tomar decisiones sobre uno de los recursos maks relevantes para la diversificaci6n de la economia
nacional. El Catastro y Evaluaci6n de los Recursos Vegetacionales Nativos de Chile determin6, en 1997, que los
bosques en el pais cubren 15.647.894 hectAreas, lo que representa el 20,8% del territorio nacional. Los aportes
especificos del catastro dicen relaci6n, con conocer la superficie de los diferentes tipos de bosques a nivel
nacional y regional, asi como la representatividad del Sistema Nacional de Areas Silvestres Protegidas.
2.10.  Sector Minero
Bajo este componente, los aportes del proyecto no permitieron avanzar en la cosolidaci6n de una unidad
ambiental en el Ministerio de Mineria, como se esperaba. Sin embargo, el proyecto aport6 para la realizaci6n de
estudios sobre el establecimiento de estandares de calidad ambientales relacionadas con descarga de efluentes
liquidos en el sector minero, asi como manejo de desechos s6lidos y programas de abandono de faenas mineras.
De igual manera, los programas de entrenamiento establecido en el proyecto no se realizaron. El esfuerzo de
este componente se centr6 los estudios tendientes a establecer una normativa nacional para el abandono de
faenas mineras.
2.11.  Sector Industrial
Con anterioridad a la reestructuraci6n de este componente, se lograron avances sustantivos en tomo al
diagn6stico de emisiones industriales y un manual de manejo de residuos s6lidos industriales, que fueron un
aporte relevante para el establecimiento de normas de calidad ambientales y emisi6n en la materia,
particularmente relacionados con la emisi6n de residuos liquidos a cuerpos de aguas superficiales, la emisi6n de
TRS en industrias de celulosa, y el uso de lodos provenientes de plantas de tratamiento.
46



Con posterioridad a la reestructuraci6n del componente y su disminuci6n sustancial en recursos, se constituy6 la
Unidad de Producci6n Limpia en el Ministerio de Economia, la cual ha apoyado consistentemente la aprobaci6n
de 7 acuerdos voluntarios con el sector privado, entre los cuales destacan los acuerdos con la empresa de la
celulosa, fundiciones de la Regi6n Metropolitana y VI, aserraderos, empresas quimicas de la Regi6n
Metropolitana, productores de cerdo, y empresas de la construcci6n. En este sentido, el proyecto, a traves de la
experiencia aportada en la etapa anterior a la reestructuraci6n, permiti6 que el Ministerio se involucrara
activamente en la formulaci6n de los acuerdos voluntarios.
3.    Conclusiones
3.1.   Aportes del Proyecto CONAM  /IBIRF al Desarrollo InstitucionalAmbiental del Pais
Es dificil especificar los aportes exactos del proyecto a la implantaci6n de la gesti6n ambiental chilena, ya que,
dada su concepci6n original, estaba inmerso integramente en el conjunto de otras acciones previstas para generar
la capacidad de gesti6n en el pais. Sin embargo, el pais cuenta con una legislaci6n marco, una institucionalidad
ambiental y numerosos instrumentos de gesti6n ambiental, que le ha permitido enfrentar los temas ambientales y
proyectarse sobre como enfrentar los temas futuros, como resultados evidentes de la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
El proyecto permiti6 sentar las bases de la institucionalidad vigente en Chile. Por una parte, el apoyo logrado
con el proyecto permiti6 la implantaci6n y desarrollo de un modelo de gesti6n ambiental ajustado a las
realidades del pais, en un periodo de la historia chilena que requeria un esfuerzo significativo por parte del
gobiemo para apoyar la incorporaci6n del tema a la agenda puiblica y darle sustentabilidad ambiental al modelo
economico. Dado que el tema habia estado postergado durante el regimen militar, el esfuerzo realizado durante
la etapa de disenio del proyecto, permiti6 una priorizaci6n de temas relevantes que fueran entendibles y
alcanzables para la autoridad politica. En efecto, el proyecto fue el mejor defensor el modelo institucional de
CONAMA, en el sentido de crear un 6rgano tecnico para coordinar las competencias ambientales de los demas
servicios, en lugar de crear un ministerio.
Cabe destacar que el proyecto, que en su inicio fue el principal proveedor de recursos de CONAMA,
otorgandole estabilidad y rigor a la instituci6n, oblig6 a cumplir con los compromisos adquirido previamente. Es
decir, signific6 un aporte sustantivo para otorgarle la permanecia en el tiempo a CONAMA, necesaria para
impulsar los cambios requeridos en el aparto estatal y sentar las bases de la gesti6n ambiental, independizando
su gesti6n de los cambios de autoridades y direcciones
Asociado a lo anterior, el proyecto entreg6 una cantidad importante de recursos financieros y asesoria tecnica
para la estructuraci6n de CONAMA y sus representaciones regionales y sectoriales. En efecto, durante los
primeros afios de CONAMA, los recursos aportados por el proyecto fueron su sustento principal, para la
dotaci6n de personal e implemrentaci6n de la politica ambiental de gobiemo en sus areas prioritarias. Tambi6n
fue decisivo el aporte de numerosos expertos del BIRF que con frecuencia visitaron Chile, durante la fase de
disenfo del proyecto.
Adicionalmente, el proyecto requiri6 de CONAMA la implantaci6n de un conjunto de procedimientos para el
desarrollo de actividades que aportaron una gesti6n mas ordenada. Lo anterior, aport6 sustancialmente a la
creaci6n de un equipo profesional en CONAMA de alto nivel, con vocaci6n de servicio puiblico para impulsar
un tema absolutamente novedoso e incipiente en el pais. Por otra parte, el proyecto aport6 a CONAMA con la
infraestructura y equipamiento necesario para su funcionamiento efectivo durante las primeras etapas de su
gestaci6n.
Todo lo anterior signific6 que el pais pudiera avanzar en materia de gesti6n ambiental y desarrollo institucional.
CONAMA ha logrado incorporar sustancialmente la protecci6n del medio ambiente como una definici6n de
47



politica, mediante un marco de regulacion general sobre la protecci6n ambiental expresada en la Ley N 19.300
sobre Bases Generales del Medio Ambiente (1994) y la Politica para un Desarrollo Sustentable (1998). Se dot6
al Estado de una institucionalidad que se ocupa especificamente de los temas ambientales, a traves de
CONAMA y los servicios publicos con competencia ambiental, y se abri6 un espacio de acci6n dentro del
Estado para los asuntos ambientales, ante lo cual se establecieron funciones de coordinaci6n en CONAMA y de
ejecuci6n en los ministerios sectoriales.
3.2.   Factores que Incidieron en la Implementacion del Proyecto y la Obtenci6n de Resultados
Uno de los principales factores relacionados con la obtenci6n de resultados se refiere a los cambios de
direcciones ejecutivas (4), coordinadores del proyecto (6), "task manager" (3), y de gobiemo (1), que cambiaron
los enfasis del mismo y sus modalidades de trabajo. A ello es atribuible el bajo rendimiento en los componentes
econ6micos, mineria y en manera tangencia al componente industrial. En definitiva, el proyecto fue concebido
bajo una administraci6n y ejecutado por otra distinta sin la adecuada cobertura del BIRF, interrumpiendo la
continuidad de los equipos de trabajo y las lineas prioritarias para el proyecto.
Hubo un distanciamiento progresivo del BIRF en la etapa de implementaci6n del proyecto, con la consecuente
falta de un apoyo tecnico sustantivo y perdurable en el tiempo a la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto. Quizas
6sta sea una falencia mas sentida ya que la ausencia de capacidades mas s6lidas en el pais, requeria de apoyo
tecnico por parte del BIRF, lo cual produjo en la practica que el proyecto se implementara con las capacidades
nacionales existentes.
Existieron inconsistencias en los procedimientos administrativos de CONAMA y del BIRF, lo cual signific6 un
doble esfuerzo por parte de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto. Por una parte, las actividades del proyecto
eran revisadas y aprobadas por el Banco Mundial, bajo sus procedimientos, y por otra parte por el Ministerio de
Hacienda para el desembolso de los recursos bajo otro conjunto de procedimientos.
Otro de los factores relevantes asociados a la obtenci6n de resultados, se refiere a la voluntad necesaria por parte
de las instituciones que debe coordinar CONAMA. En efecto, CONAMA convoca a una serie de organismos
pnblicos que provienen de jerarquias diversas, lo cual ha generado en sus primeros anlos de funcionamiento un
conflicto mas bien de sensibilidad. Los servicios puiblicos, a traves de los funcionarios que tienen competencia
ambiental, han sido reticentes a participar o a ceder espacios en estas convocatorias.
La insuficiente comprensi6n por parte de los diferentes profesionales de CONAMA sobre los objetivos del
proyecto gener6 diversas objeciones y limitaciones a las actividades que debi6 impulsar la Unidad Coordinadora
del Proyecto.
La falta de capacitaci6n y entrenamiento del personal de CONAMA debilit6 a las contrapartes de los estudios y
consultorias del proyecto, reduciendo la efectividad de los resultados esperados.
Durante la etapa final del proyecto, con la consolidaci6n de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto como
departamento especializado y formal dentro de la estructura de CONAMA en la ejecuci6n de licitaciones para
los diferentes programas, esta asumi6 mayores obligaciones, las cuales limitaron su apoyo directo al proyecto.
48



Annex 9
Lessons Learned from the Chilean Model for Public Environmental Management
In the aftermath of the Rio Summit most Latin American countries started to invest in public institutional
capacity for improving environmental management. When these countries looked at the international
experience, they were not able to find a single "good-practice" approach for the most effective institutional
arrangement. While the OECD countries had been able to achieve significant improvements in environmental
quality, their road to strong environmental management institutions has neither been easy due to uneven political
commitment, conflicting interests and interest-groups, and numerous changes in the regulatory and institutional
frameworks. The Latin America Region has experimented with two distinct models that take very different
approaches; both are considered quite successful. Chile and Brazil have chosen the "Coordinator Model" that
relies heavily on existing sectoral ministries, whereas Mexico exemplifies the opposite, the so-called "Ministry
Model", with a strong central authority. The purpose of this annex is to add to the understanding of these
alternative models, and use the Chilean experience, and the main lessons learned, to further our understanding of
how to create effective environmental management institutions.
The Chile experience has shown that the "Coordinator Model" can be successful when three conditions are met:
First, political commitment must be serious and translated into sectoral ministries' ownership and commitment
for environmental protection. These ministries also need to be strong institutions with good administrative and
technical capacity.
Second, a strong role for non-governmental participation (both private sector and civil society) that goes beyond
mere information sharing and consultation.
Third, certain central clearance and monitoring functions (e.g. Environmental Impact Assessments and
formulation of emissions standards) remain under the control of the national environmental agency.
What is the so-called 'Chilean model'?
Chile opted for a model that is rooted in an approach of inter-sectoral coordination and political closeness to the
office of the President, but with enforcement largely retained by sectoral ministries. The National Commission
for Environment (CONAMA) was formally established in March 1994 with the approval of the General
Environmental Framework Law (Ley de Bases del Medio Ambiente N 19.300) and falls under the jurisdiction
of the Secretary General of the Presidency. CONAMA's mandate is to guide and coordinate public sector
administration of environmental issues. Thus, responsibilities of environmental management remain with the
sectoral agencies and decisions are taken by an Inter-Ministerial Council to which CONAMA is the Executive
Secretariat. Environmental authority is therefore integrated into the sectors which have the responsibility of
implementing the policies, regulations and enforcement instead of in one central vertical institution like a
ministry of environment. Furthermnore, CONAMA is also a highly decentralized institution with presence in
each of the 13 Regions. (See Annex 11 on CONAMA's organizational structure).
An important factor that influenced the decision to opt for the "Coordination" instead of the "Ministry" model
was the strong sentiment in Chilean society against creating large, new public sector agencies. Furthermore, it
was argued that the economic, political and legal costs associated with establishing a vertical authority
(ministry) were too high given the multiplicity of already existing responsibilities in the different ministries and
public services and considering that the environmental issues inherently are cross-sectoral. Therefore, the
strategy was to develop a sense of ownership for environmental issues in each line agency's respective policies
and activities.
49



Why is political commitment pivotal, and how does Chile compare in the region?
In many countries, environmental protection agencies seldom have real power for two reasons: (i) real political
commitment to implement change is often lacking, and (ii) resistance of existing institutional, legal and
administrative relationships may hinder progress. This holds true for OECD countries as well as developing
countries. How does Chile compare to other countries in the region?
Chile took on the challenge of systematic environmental management around the same time than Mexico and
Brazil in the first half of the 1990s. It evolved and grew under the political support of President Aylwin (1990-
1994), and was part of an overall change agenda with a democratically elected government after 17 years of
dictatorship. Without his strong commitment CONAMA would have probably died or been emasculated by the
more powerful sectoral ministries. The President's political support got the Framework Law through Congress,
and helped settle the early battles with the Ministry of National Resources. CONAMA was sufficiently well
established that it was able to weather the drifting support by President Frei (1994-2000), who was not willing to
sacrifice any perceived potential for short-term economic growth in favor of long-term sustainable development.
Under President Lagos, elected this year, environmental management in Chile has a new chance to re-define
itself and tackle outstanding issues, particularly the natural resource agenda and the role of public participation.
Following the design (1990-93), implementation (1994-97), and consolidation (1998-99), phases of institutional
development, Chile is now entering the revision phase of its environmental management system.
Since it is recognized that political will is crucial for building effective environmental management capacity,
one can ask which institutional model responds better. The "Coordinator Model" that Chile follows
acknowledges its dependence on political commitment, particularly by the President, more openly than the
"Ministry" model, as in Mexico. Chile's experience has shown both the strengths and the weaknesses of this
dependency- the advantage under President Aylwin and the disadvantage of it under President Frei.
Chile and Mexico are good country cases to compare, given their advanced economic development and the fact
that in both countries the NAFTA negotiations gave environment a more prominent place. Mexico established a
large Environment Ministry (SEMARNAP) to which a number of sector responsibilities were transferred --
among them responsibility for natural resource management. In SEMARNAP planning, regulatory, enforcement
and productive functions were all brought together under one roof. It is a big federal institution that is slowly
decentralizing2. Coordination across institutional boundaries has been difficult and mainstreaming the
environment agenda in a systematic and operational way has not yet been very successful. On the other hand,
Mexico has emerged as a leader in biodiversity conservation and has a success story to tell on air pollution
management in Mexico City.
In contrast, Chile focused on urban pollution management and neglected the natural resources agenda, despite
having an economy that is based on natural resource extraction. This may be explained by the fact that air
pollution is a very visible problem affecting a highly urbanized population. In addition, those affected by the
control measures were usually large in number and not individually powerful. In contrast, the small in numbers,
highly politicized, and politically and economically powerful copper mining, fishing and timber groups have
been much less easy to manage. Progress in these sectors has been slower.
A big contributor to the success of the Chilean "Coordinator Model" obviously is people. Chile isfortunate to
have highly trained, and highly motivated people who made CONAMA work and thrive. They also form the
"involved public" and are active in NGOs, the press, and in the Congress. Most other Latin American countries
also have highly trained people but they tend to be in the minority and the overall public capacity is weaker. In
cases like Mexico and Brazil the country's size plays an important role as well - it is harder to concentrate
political and public interest on issues in very large countries with many pressing local environmental problems.
2 The environment as a new administrative sector in Mexico is so far less decentralized than the traditional sectors of health,
education, agriculture or infrastructure.
50



The "Coordinator Model" needs strong sectoral ministries with serious commitment towards environment
The collaborative policy-making style of the Chilean model has a huge potential advantage, namely its ability to
mainstream environmental issues into the sectors. Other LAC countries with vertical ministerial institutional
organizations have struggled with and have not been able to produce very convincing results. In fact, CONAMA
by itself is not a powerful institution; rather, its ability to influence the sectors and to effectively promote
sustainable development depends on the respective President of the Republic. The President is in the position to
give CONAMA substantial credibility (or make it less effective as the period under President Frei
demonstrated). CONAMA's credibility suffered considerably when President Frei publicly stated that no
economic investment should be stopped due to environmental concerns. The then nascent Environmental Impact
Assessment System was put to a rough political test with high profile investment cases like RALCO3, which
subsequently led to the resignation of the CONAMA Director. Over time, it is expected that with the
mainstreaming and institutionalizing of environmental concerns into the policies and operations of sectoral
agencies, that political commitment will become relatively less pivotal in setting the countries environmental
agenda. Rather, a much more broad-based consensus on at least minimum and enforceable environmental
standards will take hold.
The Role of Non-governmental Participation in the "Coordinator Model"
Key actors that shape environmental management outcome include non-governmental organizations and the
private sector. Compared to other Latin American countries, the business-government nexus in Chile appears to
be particularly close. Critics claim that this closeness has led to diluted legislation, delay in regulations, lax
standards, and limited public participation. On the other hand, the private sector already takes the environmental
authority seriously and has invested in its own capacity to be a more competent partner in the dialogue on
environmental policy. Chile has made considerable advances in promoting clean production activities through
their voluntary agreements program, which are in tune with the sectoral ministry's agenda of promoting
investment. This approach is constructive and may bring forth positive results, particularly for small and
medium size enterprises (SMEs). However, this approach still needs to be complemented with adequate
enforcement of compulsory regulation. However,
Civil society participation in the formulation and implementation of environmental policy is in the Chilean case
a story of a missed opportunity. However, Chile is not different from other Latin American countries in this
regard, and it is being argued that true participation can really only arise once a major cultural change has
occurred. At the beginning of the decade only few NGOs were concerned with environmental issues and often
were acting on a local level and concentrated on forestry and education issues. They harbored great optimism for
greater collaboration with the Government to combat environmental problems, but were disappointed. NGOs
found it difficult to participate actively in discussions on the new Environmental Framework Law, and they
were not able to sustain their participation in an Agenda 21 Council. They also felt that the private sector had
little interest in gaining their input on the country's cleaner production programs. While it is acknowledged that
environmental outreach initiatives have been well thought out, designed and implemented, NGOs claim that
they were not understood by the public. Improving the public's understanding remains one of the major
challenges for the future.
The importance of keeping central clearance and monitoring functions with the National Environmental
Administration in the "Coordinator Model".
Even in a decentralized co-ordinator model, some power is retained centrally. In Chile the three principal
management tools that were administered by CONAMA were covered by the Environmental Framework Law of
3 The hydro-electric dam RALCO was a US$ 470 million investment in the Region VIII and IX (Alto Bio Blo) by the
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A. ENDESA in 1996. The controversial issues included (i) resettlement of 555
indigenous people of the ethnicity Pehuenche, (ii) alteration of local hydro-ecological regime and change in the condition of
aquatic habitat, and (iii) loss of vulnerable vegetation, which is regarded important for conservation.
51



1994 include: (i) Environmental Impact Assessment, (ii) Norms for environmental quality and emissions, and
(iii) Decontamination Plans when the norms have been surpassed. The possible use of economic instruments is
mentioned in the context of the Decontamination Plans only. One can wonder why a country that is considered
the regional open and free market champion would base its environmental management tools solely on
command-and-control mechanisms and not applying any market-based incentives. It is worth noting that
relevant work to introduce such new incentive schemes actually exists, but that there is political reluctance to
introduce them.
Chile has developed and implemented a functioning, decentralized and public Environmental Impact
Assessment System, which clearly is a major achievement. To date more than 1,800 investment projects have
entered the review and the process is very transparent as all information is published on the web, which allows
public involvement and scrutiny. The EIA process is decentralized and the responsibility lies with CONAMA in
the Regions. Enforcement, however, is under the jurisdiction of the respective sector agency under which the
investment falls.
Chile has invested substantially, in an Environmental Information System, and has become a regional good
practice example for information dissemination. The availability of existing information through a virtual
network of relevant databases that respect information ownership contributes to civil society's knowledge and
empowerment. The challenge of the information system, however, is to provide relevant data that contributes
better to strategic decision making for environmental protection and conservation and the development of
sustainable development indicators.
Enforcement of environmental policy is presently a weakness in the system. While Chile has the necessary
public sector capacity for enforcement, it depends on the willingness of the respective sectoral agencies to
pursue enforcement as the responsibility lies with them. At present, the political cost associated with weak
enforcement is low and CONAMA's role is restricted to monitoring and promotion. It does not have the "teeth"
to ensure enforcement. Therefore, the incentive for the sector agencies is rather to subordinate environmental
protection to their primary objective of promoting their sector and ensure economic growth.
52



Annex 10
CONAMA's ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
|  PRESIVENTCOFEM                     _______U_B_    _X
11                               I
rEXECUJTIVE DIRECTORATE                        INzTER-MINISTERIAL                 CONSULTATIVE
Rf CONAMA                                   COUNCIL                        INCOMMITTEE
EGecutiOA Director                    Seroet;ry GRneal of Adi Porsid;cy (President)  2 NGO Reprisentativei
_Ministries: Ecorony  sod Development, Public Wwks,   2 USive.oity Rcps -- i,-
Mining, Health Seri ces, Housing asd Planning.   2 Entrepreneurial Reps.
Oetin       Agriculture, TrTnsport a d T eLornicmunication,.  2 Unio Representatives
Com-iftul     Affai., Ed-dilo., Defensse, Planning ud Coordhiati.,  I koo ep.foPresientativRepuli
Subcoromitb7s   tNational Resources                     I Representoodeota
CAA CONA RAegoE Dc  -e- Di(Pr  (Se-deny)
CORIEMA
CONSULITATIVE
Rntrndt o e Regisonal (President): Provincia  REGIONAL COMMITTEE
RtEGIONAL eRCOAE                      Go,emurs; 4 Regional Advisors; Regional Ministeria   .1nit
of CONAMA  .                     SEcniarrmes Eoaaeny ond Devern pment, Pubt i o Chile.
Th  Inter-iiteriaCouncilW,h, Aicrhls thert, h-ighe.g offd Ce .in.  tei Cs, i2 NGO Rhpas ntihes
Regiond eveauate.    p c dr        ic h Seproips, Malsg, Hoisa g mad Prlaen d  2 Envtipmentualp c Repsr
resoucescnservtion.TheCuni  isT alsod Telecommunication, Edpcatops,   2 thi- Represenative o
environmental billsandmeasures,aswNatlnal Rasodrees, CONAMA's RegionaE Diectio  I RepreDsentative -  urseandrn
(Secsay)  o                             Regiv t
TECHNICAL COMMITlTEE
C=NAMA 'sExcut CONAMA"e R,gional Diedtr (PDsidynt)
Repu c  i c Ralteghnal Dmcton of Public nating b
Source: CONAMA, 1997. Environmental Management of the Goverrnment of Chile.
The Inter-ministerial Council, which holds the highest of fice in the Commission, has the mandate to study,
analyze and evaluate policy and strategic proposals in all matters related to environmental protection and natural
resources conservation. The Council is also responsible for proposing to the President  of the Republic
environmental bills and measures, as well as defining the Executive Directorate's structure and organization.
The Secretary General of the Presidency presides over the council.
CONAMAs's Executive  Directorate, headed by an Executive Director who is appointed by the President of the
Republic, is the central technical coordinating body. The Executive Directorate is responsible for defining
national environmental policies.   He/she   oversees  four technical departments within  the  Directorate:
Environmental Impact Assessment, Decontamination, Plans and Norns, Natural Resources and Environmental
Economics. In addition, the Executive Directorate has departments that address Citizen Participation, Law,
Management, Information Systems, Strategic Development, Communications, as well as an international
cooperation Projects Unit.
The Consultative Committee is comprised of representatives from the private sector, NGOs, academic
institutions, workers' unions, and the President of the Republic, with CONAMA's Ministry President presiding
over the Committee. Its purpose is to provide guidance to the Executive Directorate on environmental and
natural resources policies, planning, and strategies. The Committee is duplicated at the regional level, but the
Regional Consultative Committee is chaired by local govermnent authorities.
The Regional Directorates coordinate environmental activities in each region. The Regional Director for
Environment is appointed by CONAMA's Executive Director from a short-list of five candidates submitted by
the regional government. In addition to the Regional Director, the staff in these regional units typically includes
one to three professionals, one secretary and one administrative assistant.
53



The Regional Environmental Commissions (COREMAS). CONAMA is territorially decentralized through the
COREMAS, consultative councils whose structure replicates the institutional structure of the National
Government in Santiago. Among their competencies is the decision to approve or reject environmental impact
assessment studies impacting the region. The COREMAs are chaired by local government authorities (the
Intendente Regional who is a representative of the Internal Affairs Ministry). Regional Development Plans are
defined by the Intendente and his/her cabinet, while CONAMA's Regional Director is responsible for
introducing environmental aspects to the Plan. The COREMA's are constituted by (i) the Directors of the
regional ministerial secretaries, who are representatives of the different ministries in the region and who fonn a
Council of Ministers, (ii) the provincial governors, who are in charge of coordinating environmental issues with
the municipalities; (iii) four regional advisors chosen by the Council of Ministers, and (iv) CONAMA's
Regional Director, who acts as the COREMA's executive secretary. In addition, each region has a Technical
Committee, chaired by CONAMA's Regional Director and comprised of the regional directors of the public
services who have authority on environmental topics.
This institutional structure provides sectoral agencies with a significant environmental role. The following chart
lists the functions of the main sectoral institutions with environmental competencies in Chile:
PRIMARY ENVIRONMENTAL FUNCTIONS OF SECTORAL AGENCIES
Ministry of Health      Safeguards the elimination or control of all environmental factors, elements or agents that
affect the health, security or well-being of the population.
Maritime and Merchant   Enforces the quality and use of coastal waters, as well as navigable courses.
Marine General
Directorate
(DIRECTEMAR)
Sub-secretary of Fisheries  Proposes fisheries policy, as well as the methods for its application. Coordinates the
country's fishing activities.
National Fisheries Service Implements national fishing policy and regulations. Ensures the appropriate application of
(SERNAP)                fisheries regulations.
National Tourism Service  Ensures the preservation of cultural and historical heritage.
(SERNATUR)
General Direction of    Measures water resources and oversees the usage of water resources.
Waters (DGA)
Superintendence of      Studies and proposes technical standards for the design and construction of sanitation
Sanitation Services (SISS) services. Oversees the granting of concessions and applies sanctions to the concessionaires
that violate existing legislation.
National Forest         Manages the conservation, management and use of forestry resources. Develops and carries
Corporation (CONAF)    out national and regional forestry development plans and administers the development of the
country's forestry resources.
Agricultural and        Promotes agricultural and livestock development. Inspects the safety of animal and plant
Livestock Service (SAG)  products and byproducts.
National Service of     Advisory service to the Minister of Mining. Ensures mining regulations are followed and
Geology and Mining      applies sanctions to offenders.
(SERNAGEOMIN)
National Monuments      Authorizes construction and excavation in zones that have been declared "nature
Council                sanctuaries."
Indigenous Development  Establishes the appropriate use of indigenous lands. Promotes economic and social
Corporation             development of indigenous communities through an Indigenous Development Fund. Ensures
the preservation of archaeological, historical and cultural heritage of indigenous
communities.
Sub-secretary of       Determines the requirements and procedures for vehicle inspections, such as setting the
Transport               maximum permissible levels of emissions.
Source: CONAMA, 1997. Environmental Management of the Government of Chile
54



IBRD 2402,
D                                                                                              c
A                                                                                                         --------- 7-
P  E  R  U                                                                                                                        .41V
<
P." Icota.                                                           z                    I
S o u
A m e r ca
32'
A,i                                                         F:12             Z
Ad..   a       SEE
0                                                cc
co                                                                                                                               OIH
REQION
REGION                                                                                             VALOARAM                                GFNERA
DE                                                                             Cold                                                      IRAMEZ
I,
E.IIIN         56. A.
A-
34
_j
117,2-                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
.4W                                                      CONTOURS (1,000 M.t.r t-k)
RIVERS
22'                                                                     27,                                                                                                                                  SALINE LAKES
7;W ,,7                                                                                                          ICE FIELDS
El L                                                                                                                                                 R    MINES
j
3e                                                           INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
ANT.".                                                                                                                                                                                                        u
PORTS, THRO GH-PUT
EXCEEDING 300,000 TONS
PER YEAR
ANTOFAGM                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
0    REGION CAPITAL$
.24'                                                                                                             Siost                                                                                -          PROVINCE BOUNDAIUES
A      ta                                                                      Ag I                                                                                       REGtON BOUNDARIES AND NLWBEItS
INTERNATIONAL OOUNDAgIES
<                                                                             381
z                                                                     <
521.
7
26P                                                                     2W-
CMF-l'                                            z
AS,
ui                                                                   z                                                            A1.11A
40'-
LU
REGION                                                                                                                                                                                                      oe Fg.
DE                                                                                                                            (D
ATACAMA                                                                                                                                         54'
34
<       28'-                                                                             REGION DE MAGALLANES Y
2r                                                                                                                                                        DE LA ANTARTICA  CHILE14A
P                            <
A,                                                42'                               CHILE
EWIRONMENTAL INSTIT
T",                                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT:P
56'                                                                                     56,
11 T
-30-  LAI                                               bo-d.".  hh-                                                                                                                                                   so    IOD   150   200
30--
C.=                                        h,.  d. -';-M -  th                                                                                                                                                   W.OMETERS
REGION                                       F.,  f Th. W.dd B..  G-P,
-,,dq-0 - 'h- InFf
v.w .1 ..y
.d- ... h,
COQUIMBO                                      -1, b.-dF6..                                                                                                                    74-              7?
w                                                                                                                                                                                JLILY 1992



