Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3529 CH
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Institutions Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 15, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3529 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
Page  2
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Arrangement" means any of the Environmental Assessment Arrangements, the 
Central Bank Arrangement, the CONAF Arrangement, the Ministry of Economy Arrangement 
and the Ministry of Mining
Arrangement;
(b)
"Basic Law" means the draft law for sustainable environmental 
development, including, inter alia, the requirement for environmental impact 
assessment of private and public sector projects, attached to the Borrower's letter to 
the Bank, dated September 30, 1992;
(c)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de 
Chile);
(d)
"Central Bank Arrangement" means the operational arrangement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into, pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, between CONAMA and the Central Bank for purposes of the carrying 
out of Part A.8 of the Project;
(e)
"CONAF" means the Borrower's National Forestry Corporation (Corporacion 
Nacional Forestal);
(f)
"CONAF Arrangement" means the operational arrangement, dated October 16, 
1992, entered into between CONAMA and CONAF for purposes of the carrying out of Part 
B.1 of the Project;
(g)
"CONAMA" means the Borrower's National Environmental Commission (Comision 
Nacional del Medio Ambiente) (including such Commission or its successor institution 
as governed by the Basic Law
if and when the Basic Law is enacted and comes into effect containing terms compatible 
with the Project);
(h)
"Environmental Assessment Arrangements" means the five operational 
arrangements, dated October 16, 1992, entered into between CONAMA and each of the 
Borrower's Ministries of Planning, Agriculture, Public Works, Housing and Mining for 
purposes of the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project;
(i)
"Executing Entity" means any of the entities referred to in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(j)
"Ministry of Economy Arrangement" means the operational arrangement, 
dated October 16, 1992, entered into between CONAMA and the Ministry of Economy, 
Development and Reconstruction for purposes of the carrying out of Part B.2 of the 
Project;
(k)
"Ministry of Mining Arrangement" means the operational arrangement, dated 
October 16, 1992, entered into between CONAMA and the Ministry of Mining for purposes 
of the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project;
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 
18, 1990 and November 20, 1990 between the Borrower and the Bank, as amended on March 
Page  3
24, 1992; 
(m)
"Resolution" means the Resolution No. 88, of July 27, 1992, of the 
Borrower's Minister of National Property; 
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(o)
"STyA" means CONAMA's Technical and Administrative Secretariat 
(Secretaria Tecnica y Administrativa) (including such Secretariat or its successor 
counterpart within CONAMA if and when the Basic Law is enacted and comes into effect 
containing terms compatible with the Project).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eleven million and five hundred 
thousand dollars ($11,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the  principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through STyA, with the assistance of the Executing Entities as 
indicated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) cause Parts A.3, A.8, B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project to be 
carried out in accordance with the Environmental Assessment Arrangements, the Central 
Bank Arrangement, the CONAF Arrangement, the Ministry of Economy Arrangement and the 
Ministry of Mining Arrangement, respectively; and (ii) not amend or terminate any of 
the Arrangements (even if and when the Basic Law is enacted and comes into effect).
(c)
The Borrower shall take all measures on its part necessary for the 
attainment of the Project-related performance indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) submit, not later than December 31 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, for the Bank's approval, STyA's program of 
Project activities for the next succeeding year, including the funds allocated 
Page  5
therefor; and (b) carry out such program as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank, not later than 
March 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
request, on the progress of the Project; and (b) in the month of May of each year 
during the execution of the Project, review with the Bank the progress of the Project 
and the attainment of the objectives of the Project, such review to be carried out 
with the assistance of an interdisciplinary team from Chilean academic institutions 
whose qualifications shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1995, submit 
to the Bank, for approval, the action plans required to implement the recommendations 
of the studies under Part B.2 (b) of the Project; and (b) carry out such action plans 
as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1994, submit, 
for the Bank's approval, the proposed environmental norms and standards referred to in 
Part B.3 of the Project; and (b) promptly after such Bank's approval, take all 
measures required to implement such norms and standards.
Section 3.07. In carrying out its obligations referred to in this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall coordinate Project implementation activities through STyA's Project 
Coordination Unit referred to in the Resolution.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the Resolution shall have been 
repealed or amended in a manner that may, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect 
the capacity of STyA to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date March 16, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  7
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Treasurer General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Controller General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                      1,300,000        100%
(2) Individual                   680,000        100% of foreign
    consultants'                                expenditures
    services
(3) Studies and                8,200,000        100%
    fellowships
(4) Refunding of                 464,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
Page  8
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  856,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                11,500,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $600,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after August 1, 1992; and (b) incurred by the Central Bank under 
Part A.8 of the Project, unless the Central Bank Arrangement has been entered into by 
the parties thereto.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing 
sectoral policies, strategies and plans aimed at: (a) establishing the institutional 
framework to manage environmental
protection and conservation of natural resources; and (b) strengthening the Borrower's 
ability to evaluate and manage priority environmental problems in selected sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
1.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of STyA to develop and implement 
environmental policies, strategies and plans by: (a) providing STyA with 
administrative and managerial autonomy; (b)
establishing new organizational structures and functions for STyA; (c) reinforcing 
STyA's technical and administrative staff; and (d) providing STyA with appropriate 
equipment and office space.
2.
Establishment of a structure to implement the regulatory framework for 
environmental protection and natural resources management by: (a) assisting in the 
preparation of the Basic Law; (b) establishing an information system for environmental 
laws and regulations; (c) providing training in environmental law; and (d) improving 
the Borrower's capacity to participate in international environmental initiatives.
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to control harmful environmental 
effects resulting from public and private sector investments through the introduction 
of environmental assessment concepts and appropriate methodologies, which will 
require: (a) the establishment of a unit within STyA organization to be responsible 
for preparing environmental assessment procedures nationally; (b) strengthening of the 
environmental monitoring and assessment capacity of the Borrower; (c) development of 
an environmental
assessment consciousness-raising program for staff within the Borrower's departments 
and agencies and in the private sector; (d) carrying out of a specialized training 
program for the staff in the environmental units of the Borrower; (e) promotion of 
environmental assessment concepts and procedures in the curricula of environmental 
related careers at the university level; (f) preparation of national
standards and guidelines for environmental assessments; and (g) carrying out of 
environmental assessments in nine sectors satisfactory to the Bank, with emphasis on 
reversing environmentally damaging practices associated with small and medium-size 
mines.
Page  9
4.
Strengthening of the performance capabilities of public sector personnel 
involved in managing environmental activities by: (a) establishing an environmental 
training unit within CONAMA; (b) implementing a 1992-1993 pilot training program in 
environmental management for about 600 participants; (c) executing an inventory of the 
programs which are being offered and educational institutions that have the potential 
to organize training programs in environmental and natural resources management; (d) 
implementing a national 1993-1997 training program in environmental and natural 
resources management for about 3,000 participants; (e) providing assistance to 
training units of the Borrower's ministries and
agencies involved in environmental issues.
5.
An environmental education program for the general public outside the formal 
education system, which will require: (a) creation of an environmental documentation 
unit within CONAMA; (b) development of methodologies and teaching and audio-visual 
materials; and (c) implementation of training courses for about 40 instructors, 
environmental knowledge improvement courses for about 1,300 professionals, and 
training (including sensitivity workshops) for about 11,700 community leaders to 
increase public consciousness-raising of environmental issues.
6.
Provision of financing to selected communities for the carrying out of about 30 
projects consisting of: (a) enhancement of community consciousness-raising of 
environmental issues; (b) protection of green areas, forest, wildlife, and endangered 
species; (c) improvement of recreational areas; (d) improvement of soil conservation; 
(e) management and recycling of solid waste; (f) water
saving; (g) reduction of air pollution and contamination; and (h) recuperation of 
abandoned areas.
7.
Establishment of a national environmental information system within CONAMA to 
promote environmental awareness to the public and to contribute to improved 
environmental strategic decision-making at the national level.
8.
Assessment of the economic impact of the measures to strengthen and improve 
environmental management in Chile, through: (a) economic studies of selected 
environmental issues; (b) establishment of a unit in the Central Bank to introduce the 
concept of natural resource accounting and integrate such concept into the standard 
system of national accounts; and (c) training programs and workshops to introduce 
environmental economic theory and application to economists and natural resource 
managers in the Borrower's ministries and agencies, universities, and research 
institutions.
Part B
1.
A program to strengthen CONAF's institutional capacity, consisting of: (a) the 
establishment of a forest and natural vegetation cadastre; (b) the establishment of 
systems to monitor and supervise native forest activities; and (c) the carrying out of 
an institutional study to update CONAF's organization.
2.
Establishment of an industrial anti-pollution strategy through: (a) the carrying 
out of rapid air and hazardous waste pollution inventories in the Borrower's Regions 
III, IV, V, VIII, IX and X, which will require training of staff; and (b) studies on: 
(i) water pollution policy, with special emphasis to assessing alternative policy 
instruments and institutional arrangements for setting water pollution standards, 
monitoring and control; (ii) industrial pollution policy; and (iii) development of 
norms for
industrial solid waste disposal.
3.
Development of environmental norms and standards for the mining industry, 
including those relating to effluent discharge, solid waste disposal and mine 
abandonment.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
The following Parts of the Project will be carried out with the assistance of 
the following Executing Entities pursuant to the provisions of the respective 
Arrangements:
Part of the Project                 Executing Entity
A.3                                 The Ministries of the Borrower
                                    identified in Section 1.02 (h)
                                    of this Agreement
A.8                                 Central Bank
B.1                                 CONAF
B.2                                 Ministry of Economy
                                      and Industry
B.3                                 Ministry of Mining
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1998
through   July 15, 2009
480,000
 
On January 15, 2010
460,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
Page  11
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                   1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
3.
Computing equipment shall be procured, when appropriate, under a two-step 
procedure, satisfactory to the Bank, for technical and price bids.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 and more than 
$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$1,350,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
the procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $230,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from a list of at least 
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Goods under Part A.6 of the Project may be procured in accordance with the usual 
practices of the beneficiaries of such projects.
Page  12
Part D:
Standard Bidding Documents
 
Standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be utilized in the 
procurement of goods to be undertaken pursuant to the provisions of Parts A.1 and C.1 
hereof.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part A.1 hereof and the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions 
of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981, provided, however, that for the employment of consultants costing the 
equivalent of $80,000 or less per contract, the Borrower will not have to obtain the 
Bank's prior approval except for their respective terms of reference.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  13
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  14
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Project-Related Performance Indicators
                                          1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
                                                      Percent
1.    Real increase of public              0      2     5    10    15
      sector and private sector
      projects being subject to
      environmental impact
      assessments
2.    Real growth of donors' and           3     5      7    10    10
      bilateral agencies' contri-
      butions to implement envi-
      ronmental programs in Chile
                                            US$ million equivalent
3.    Recurrent cost budget in the         3     5      7    10    12
      public sector for environmental
      protection
                                             Number added per year
4.    Real increase of professionals      50    100   100   100   100
      with environmental management
      responsibilities in the public
      sector
5.    Real increase of specialized         5      5     5     5    10
      environmental units in
      public sector entities
