Dommnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C6'. /S'Si
Report No. 5938-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 27, 1987
Transportation Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUREC    EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =    Ugandan Shilling
US$ 1.00               =    U Sh. 1400 (JUNE 1986)
U Sh. 1.00             -    USSO.0007
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            0.62 mile (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)       0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)         =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =    2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB     =    African Development Bank
EAC      =    East African Community
EARC     =    East African Railways Corporation
HIMOS    =    Highway Maintenance and Organization Study
MLC      =    Ministry of Local Government
HOT      =    Ministry of Transport
14OW          Ministry of Works
MPED     =    Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
PTC           People's Transport Company
UAC      =    Uganda Airlines Corporation
URC      =    Uganda Railwavs Corporation
JTC      =    Uganda Transport Company
UTCU     =    Uganda Transport Cooperative Union
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
wa U IGWAY A,   c
STAFF APPRAISAL REORT
Table of CDntents
Page so
CREDIT AND PROJECT S        ....UIA......... ..         ........... i
I. TE TRAINSPORT SECTOR .................. ................. I
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting            . ...............I
B. The Transport System ........................................   1
C.  Transport Sector Management .............           ..........5
D.  Transport Planning and Coordination ......................... 5
E.  Transport Sector Investment ............................... 6
F.  Transport Policy and Issues       .........            ... . .8
G.  Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector ................9
H.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ....................... 10
rI. 7mE HIGrHAY SUBSECTOR ......................................... 11
A.  The Network ......................-.---.-.......... -........ 11
B. Road Use ..............                                         12
C.  The Road Transport Industry    . . . ... ........ ........ 13
D.  Traffic Regulations and Safety    . .................... 15
E.  Administration .     .      .      ................................. 15
F. Staffing and Training                    . .... 16
G.  Planning and Financing of Investments            . . .   17
H.  Engineering and Construction ............ .................... 18
I.  Maintenance ................................................ 19
I II. THE PROGRAM .................................................. 20
A. Objectives..... .......... 20
B.  Description ......................................... o ..... 20
C.  Program Costs and Financing                 ..                . 23
D.  Economic Justification of the Program ...................... 25
IV. THE PROJECT ................................. o ................ 26
A.  Project Composition and Costs ............. o ................ 26
B.  Implementation and Procurement .....     . ......           .. 27
C.  Disbursements    ..        ........................... o......28
D.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements ...........30
E.  Environmental Aspects              .     .....        ....... 30
V.  EC0NCIlC EVALUJTION OF  EE PROMK               ........................... 31
A.  General ....................... o ........................... 31
B. Area of Influence of the Project,
Benefits and Beneficiaries                .      ... 31
C. Economic Analysis        o... ..    ..... 32
D.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Test...................33
E.  Risks ........................ o ... 33
VI. AGREJ      T5 TO BE REACEMD AND            10                ...... 34
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipieots only in the performace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizston.



-2-
(Contents Cont'd)
S
1.     Proposed Investments in Transport (1985-89)
2.     Action Taken on the 1983 Transport Sector Memorandum
Recommendations
3.     Composition of Motor Vehicle Fleet by Type
4.     Vehicle Weights and Dimensions
5.     Expenditures on Roads
6.    Design Standards of Roads
7.     Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
8.     Draft Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study and Detailed
Engineering
9.     Progress Reporting Requirements
10.     Traffic on Program Roads, 1983
11.     Future Road Traffic, 1986-2005
12.     Typical Vehicle Operating Costs
13.     Cost and Benefits for Road Rehabilitation
14.     Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
15.     Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
I.   Organization of the Ministry of Works
II. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
Uganda, Highway Network (IBRD 19263)
This report was prepared by S. L. Kathuria (Deputy Division Chief), B.
Bostrom (Sr. Economist) and S. Demissie (Highway Engineer) who appraised
the project in May 1985. In June/July 1986 the appraisal mission returned
to Uganda to update and revise the report. Mrs. Hulda Hunter assisted in
processing the report.



UGANDk
FOURTH HIGHW   PIOJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower: Republic of Uganda
Amount:       SDR 14.1 -Iillion (US$ 18 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project Objectives
and Description:             The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) protect capital investment and to increase
the service life of essential roads serving
local and transit traffic to other land-locked
countries; (b) help improve maintenance
planning and operations of rural/feeder roads
serving agricultural areas; and (c) strengthen
institutions responsible for project
mplementation. The project would consist of:
(a) rehabilitationlstrengthen  ng section km
0-24 of the RAmpala-Jinja Road and the
Nbarara-Ishaka Road, for which bids have been
received, and related supervision; (b) a pilot
rural road maintenance program; (c) technical
assistance; and (d) feasibility study and, if
feasible, detailed engineering of the Soroti-
Lira Road. The project is part of a larger
program to rehabilitate 279 km of Uganda's
main roads based on studies financed under
Credit 1077-UG. Other parts of the program
vill be financed or are being considered for
financing by AfDBIEEC.
Benefits:                    Reduction of road transport costs due to
reduced vehicle operating costs, deferred
costly road construction and improved road
safety.
Risks:                       The main risk is the uncertain economic
conditions in the country which may lead to a
decline in the availability of local funds for
the project. Also, the possibility exists
that implementation is delayed due to MOW's
lack of administrative capacity though road
rehabilitation/strengthening works included in
the project will be carried out by
contractors.



Estimated Cost.:                                          Local Foroig  Total
-U      U  mi I I I .on-_
Highway Rohabi I itation/Str.ngthening                   2.6       11.4      13.9
Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Progra                      0.2       0.8        1.9
Consultant Services                                      0.7        3.1       3.8
Base Cost                                                3.4       15.3      18.7
Physic l Contingencies                                   0.3       1.6       1.0
Price Contingencies                                      0.2       1.1       1.3
Total Project Cost'/                                     8.9       17.9      21.3
---=       -
JJ Total project cost exclusive of taxs and dutioe (US2 million) is USU19.8
million.
Financing Plan:
Local  For ien   Total
-uss miion
Proposed IDA Credit                                       -        18.J       18 0
Government of Uganda                                     3.8        -          3.8
Total Financing                                          2.8       18.6       21.8
Est;iated Disbursemonts (SM Million):
IDA Fiscal Year             198I   199   1990  1991  1992    1998
Annual                   1.9   4.0    4.0  4.9    8.9    2.0
Cumulative               1.0   5.9    9.0 13.0   16.0   18.0
Economic Rate of Return of the Project:  47 percent
Map. ID   19263



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01     Uganda is a landlocked country in the upper basin of the White
Nile bordering the Sudan to the north, Kenya to the east, Tanzania, Lake
Victoria and Rwanda to the south and Zaire to the west. The total area of
the co.untry is 236,000 km2, about the size of the United Kingdom, of which
about one seventh is swamps and lakes, and most of the remainder is a
plateau about 1,700 m above sea level. Rainfall averages 1,270 mm in the
central and eastern parts of the country while the somewhat drier northern
parts receive about 760 mm annually. Despite being close to the Equator,
neither its temperate climate, nor its topography pose major impediments to
transport.
1.02     The population, estimated at 14.3 million and growing at 3.2% per
annum, is predominantely rural with roughly 93% living in the countryside.
Population density averages 61 persons per km2 which is about twice that of
neighboring Kenya. Uganda is essentially an agricultural economy with that
sector contributing 58% of GDP and almost all of the country's experts. The
share of coffee, the most important export crop, in export receipts
declined to 144,000 tons in 1983 from 191,000 tons in 1970. Other export
cash crops including cotton, tea, tobacco and sugar, which in the past
provided up to 42% of export earnings, currently account for less than 10%
of agricultural exports.
1.03     The production of foodcrops for domestic consumption, the most
important activity of the agricultural sector, amounted to about 10.3
million tons in 1980 growing to 13.9 million tons in 1983. The main
function of the transport system is the distribution of this production
throughout the country. When food production, which currently is about
half of that in the early 1970s, reverts to its past levels, the
deteriorated transportation system will constitute a bottleneck.
1.04     During the last 14 years, the economy of Uganda has seen a
reversal from growth to decline followed by rapid deterioration during the
war of 1978179 and its aftermath. Real GDP in 1983 was only two-thirds of
the 1971 level and per capita income fell by 52% in real terms to a level
of US$220 over the same period. This has and continues to have an adverse
impact on the transport sector and its operations -- foreign exchange to
renew equipment and vehicles and to provide spare parts is scarce; staff
morale in the public sector is low due to the harsh economic situation and
the efficiency of maintenance works has suffered. The decline in the share
of transport sector from about 7% of GDP in 1975 to about 5% in 1983 is
explained by the very deteriorated state of Infrastructure and vehicles.
B. The Transport System
1.05      Uganda's transport infrastructure comprises about 26,200 km of
roads of which about 2,000 km are paved; a railway system totalling 1,350



-2-
km; a port on Lake Victoria providing a rail-ferry link to Tanzania; one
international airport at Entebbe and eleven domestic airfields. The
coverage of the transport system is adequate; however, due to severe
neglect over the last several years, the infrastructure has deteriorated
and requires rehabilitation and maintenance. The proposed project will
supplement the efforts begun under the ongoing Third Higbhay Project
(Para.1.32) in stopping further deterioration of the road system.
1.06     The highway subsector is described in detail in Chapter II.
Rai1lasg
1.07      The railway network consists of a 1,350 km metre-gauge system of
two main lines branching off at Tororo on the eastern border with Kenya
(Map IBRD 19263). Until 1977, the railways in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
were organized as a single operating system within the East African
Railways Corporation (EARC), although each country collected revenues for
goods originating within its boundaries. Train and traffic control in all
countries were centered at the Nairobi headquarters, which was also the
heavy locomotive and wagon repair center in the system and the main
training center. In 1977, when the Eastern African Community (EAC) broke
up, the Uganda Railways Corporation (URC), a parastatal under the Ministry
of Transport (MOT), was formed.
1.08      In general, the railway's infrastructure and its rolling stock
would be adequate to play its role in the economy if they were
rehabilitated and efficiently utilized; much of these have deteriorated due
to the lack of adequate maintenance and replacement of capital.  The URC*s
efficiency had been constrained in the past by the lack of adequate
operating relations with Kenya through which the bulk of Uganda's external
trade transits.  Uganda remansw virtually dependent on Kenya for its
import/export traffic. Thus co-operation with Kenya is a key element in
Uganda's overall tra-nport strategy. Considerable progress in this area
has been made recently and there is now an operating agreement between
Kenya Railways and URC which forms the basis for the exchange of rolling
stock between the two countries. Nevertheless, present administrative
practices and conditions still adversely affect transit time of
international shipments, and the question of liability for goods in transit
remains unresolved. The Northern Corridor Transit Agreement signed between
Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda in late 1984 will help resolve these
problems.
1.09      The situation regarding rolling stock and locomotives has
improved in recent years and Uganda will have sufficient rolling stock
capacity now that Kenya has released Uganda's share of R&C wagons. The
locomotive fleet is more than adequate for present traffic, although
approximately one half of it is currently out of service due to the need



-3-
for repair or lack of spare parts. The new workshop being built at
Nalukolongo, just outside Kampala, with local financing is now almost
complete after being under construction for several years due to limited
funds.
1.10     With the breakup of the EAC, the number of passengers handled by
the Ugandan rai.way system fell sharply. Freight traffic had begun to
decline much earlier, and by 1984, the volume of goods had fallen to some
340,000 tons or 34Z of peak levels reached in the early 1970s. Although
there has been some recovery, especially in passenger service during the
past few years (3.4 million passengers in 1984), the railway is still
underutilized. While this reflects in part the general decline in economic
activity, it is also due to a diversion of traffic to road transport caused
by the low efficiency of the railways; the low level of security of
traffic, particularly for high value products such as coffee and fuel; and
past coordination problems with Kenya Railways. In 1984 the major export
commodity was coffee of which the railways carried about 65Z or some 86,000
tons. The railways is also now carrying maize exports to Tanzania using
the rail ferry on Lake Victoria. For imports the railways carry only a
small portion (9,500 tons or 5Z) of fuel. This should increase as URC now
has more tank wagons under its own direct control. Another area of
potential expansion is the movement of import goods in containers.
1.11      The breakup of the EAC also imposed completely new institutional
requirements on Uganda. As all general services such as administration,
procurement, finance, accounting, train control and heavy maintenance had
been centralized in Nairobi, both Tanzania and Uganda were left without
them. Thus URC has weak commercial and technical managemet and little
experience in railway operations. Therefore, in addition to rehabilitation
of infrastructure, URC needs a major staff training effort, a complete
revies of personnel policies, and technical assistance to help the railways
in management and operational tasks.
1.12      To assist the URC several long-term initiatives have been
undertaken. With bilateral aid from Italy the feasibility of improving
two railway lines has been studied and work is underway on a master plan
for the railways. Under IDA financing (credit 1077-UG), a marnower survey
for the transport sector has been completed and one of the conclusions of
the survey is that the foreseen railway operations could be handled by less
than the current establishment of some 6,500 permanent staff. On the other
hand, a number of positions for skilled and experienced staff are not
adequately filled. To provide a solution to this problem a proposal for
staff training and technical assistance is being developed vhich could form
part of a future transport project.
Air Transport
1.13      The air transport infrastructure consists of an international
airport at Entebbe and eleven domestic airfields. Entebbe Airport which
was completed in the mid 1970. has runways capable of handling wide-body
jet aircraft. Although the passenger terminal building is relatively new,



-4-
it suffered extensive damage during the 1978-79 war and over the longer
term vould need reconstruction. Other facilities at the airport which were
destroyed, damaged, or stolen include navigational aids, meteorological and
fire fighting equipment, and the control tower. These are gradually being
improved or replaced. Upcountry airports have mostly grass or murram
landing strips and small terminal structures which have not been maintained
for lack of activity. Most have no grass cutting equipment, and
navigational and safety aids remain unserviceable. Only one upcountry
airfield, at Soroti, the site of a regional air training school, has a
control tower.
1.14      Uganda Airlines Corporation (UAC) was formed in 1976 and became
the sole national carrier with the collapse of East African Airlines in
1977. Since the war, Uganda Airlines replaced its two Boeing 707s and
resumed limited international services. Domestic and regional services
also were resumed using two Fokker Friendships and one Twin Otter. In
1985, UAC moved 19,000 passengers in international and regional services
and 10,000 passengers in domestic services and a total of about 3700 tons
of cargo.  However, the company's financial position has been severely
eroded by high fuel costs, service disruptions resulting from aircraft
diversions for unscheduled purposes, and non-payment of bills, especially
by public sector customers. The UAC operations and fleet replacement have
been studied by a task force within the Government. With the present
foreign exchange and staffing constraints efforts will have to be focused
initially on improving existing aircraft operations, rather than expanding.
Water Transport
1.15      In recent years, Uganda has increaingly looked to lake transport
to provide an alternative transit route to the Indian Ocean by using Lake
Victoria and services by rail through Tanzania.  This reflects both
political concern that Uganda should not be solely dependent on the Kenya
rail/road route and economic concern regarding the Impact of congestion and
clearance delays at Monobasa port.  The alternative Tanzania route was
utilized to a limited extent before the breakup of the EAC and was reopened
imiediately after the 1978-79 war for transporting coffee exports. However,
the Jinja-Mwanza ferry, owned by Tanzania, broke down in 1980. To reduce
its dependence on a single route for international trade, Uganda ordered
three new ferries in 1978 which were delivered in 1983-1985. These ferries
provide services from Jinja to Mwanza which is connected by rail to the
ports of Dar-es-Salaam and Tanga, and to Kisumu in Kenya. Under normal
circumstances, the Tanzania route would not be as economic as the Kenya
route for many types of cargo, and the Tanzanian rail system is not able to
handle large volume of transit traffic. Cn economic grounds, top priority
should therefore be given to reducing costs on the Kenya route. One way of
doing this would be to expand the use of containers in rail traffic.
Additional investments on the Tanzania route (for ferries, terminals and
rail links) should, however, be limited to the minimum level considered
compatible with Uganda's strategic concerns.



-5-
C. Transport Sector Manatement
1.16      Two ministries share responsibility for the transport sector, the
Ministry of Transport (MOT) and the Ministry of Works (HOW). Other
ministries involved indirectly include: the Ministry of Commerce for
transit traffic; the Ministry of Co-operatives and Marketing through its
indirect influence over the Uganda Transport Cooperative Union (UTCU); the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED) for overall investment
planning; and the Ministry of Finance for project financing and external
aid. The MOT has a policy role in matters of road, rail, air and water
transport and is responsible for transport regulation, coordination,
control, tariffs, and road transport safety. It also oversees the
operations of URC, UAC, the Uganda Transport Company (UTC) and People's
Transport Company (PTC), the latter two being road passenger transport
parastatals. Although MOT's organizational structure is adequate, it
seriously lacks qualified staff to perform its functions and is in need of
technical assistance in the short-term and recruitment and training in the
long term.  Some of the immediate requirements are being met by assistance
under the on-going Third Highway Project (Para 1.32). The MOW is
responsible for planning, constructing, and maintaining highways and for
airport operations. Its operations are described in detail in Chapter II.
D. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.17      Transport planning is the responsibility of MOT in cooperation
with the MPED. Because of the lack of clearly defined objectives and
manpower shortages, little has been done and most transport agencies and
parastatals have, by default, taken on a high degree of autonomy without
due regard jp economic or intermodal considerations. While the MPED should
have the rore of overall economic planning, sectoral planning is the
responsibility of the NOT. To adequately perform its role, the NOT should:
(1) strengthen its staffing, and (2) systematize and intensify its sector
knowledge through better data collection and analysis. Eventually MOT
should assess Uganda's medium and longer term transport needs; prepare a
comprehensive transport investment program; and develop a transport
strategy and policy framework. During 1980-83, UNDP, with ILO as executing
agency, provided some assistance to MOT in these areas. Renewed effort is
being made to achieve these objectives through a proposed UNDP trasaport
policy and development project, with the Bank as executing agency.
1.18      Until the breakup of the EAC, intermodal coordination was
centrally handled from the Community's headquarters and operated relatively
efficiently. HR'evAr, following the breakup of EAC and consequent initial
collapse of transjo& interchange agreements, Uganda embarked on a series
of investments designed to fill the void left in its transport system
without adequate consideration for intermodal coordination. Present
coordination primarily occurs during the preparation of annual budgets but
even then the exchange of information and discussion of projects is
inadequate. An efficient coordination mechanism is clearly needed. This
will be addressed under the proposed UNDP project (Para 1.17).



-6-
S. Transport Sector Investmnt
1.19      At independence in 1962, Uganda inherited a very good transport
system. The system was further improved during the decade 1962-1972 to
become one of the best in sub-saharan Africa. However, after years of
neglect and ultimate destruction during the war in 1978/79, the transport
system was left in disarray. The Government reacted quickly to the reduced
transport capacity by investing simultaneously in all modes and purchased
trucks, ferries, airplanes, railway locomotives and rolling stock. With
assistance from a Commonwealth team of experts a Recovery Program was
prepared which the Government has since updated. The main aim of the 1982-
84 initial Recovery Program and the subsequent investment plans in the
transport sector has been to alleviate constraints in the movement,
marketing and export of agricultural produce and to ensure that basic
transport services would be available in all parts of Uganda.
1.20     Actual investment in transport infrastructure amounted to about
US$14 million in 1982/83, US$55 million in 1983/84 and US$ 39 million in
1984/85. To some extent, this slow start was caused by the need to rebuild
the institutions responsible for project implementation. In the road sub-
sector, only the EEC-financed works on the Kampala-Masaka road, and some
road sections close to the Zaire border (Equator and Lake Katwe roads), and
FRG-financed road repair works on the Jinja-Tororo road are close to
completion. The rail and aviation subsectors have been more successful in
getting projects implemented mainly because equipment and rolling stock can
be imported and installed faster than civil works can be carried out.
Still, these subsectors and, in particular URC, have very serious
institutional limitations with inadequately trained staff at all levels.
This has clearly limited the favorable impact of the improved rolling
stock.
1.21      Government's Investment Plan for 1985186 - 1988189 includes 26
projects for the transport sector with a total of US$210.2 million (see
Annex 1). Of this, the major part (US$146.6 million) is for roads and road
studies, US$53.6 million for rail, US$1.6 million for water transport and
US$8.4 million for air transport infrastructure. This Plan relates well to
the condition and importance of the different sub-sectors and is now being
updated. The priority aim is to limit further deterioration of the main
transport network, and in particular, the main trunk roads serving local
and transit traffic to other land-locked countries. In recent years the
transit traffic of about 400,000 tons yielded USS 5.7 million in foreign
exchange through border tolls (Para. 2.24). Following the initial increase
in traffic demand after 1982, overall traffic growth may now slow down to
the level of some 4-62 per annum depending largely on future growth in the
agriculture sector and, particularly, of agricultural exports. Passenger
transport, however, has large potential for growth since most home-to-work
trips currently entail walking. Private minibuses, Matatu's, despite
expanding rapidly, can only meet part of the demand, since their costs and
therefore tariff levels are high.



-7-
1.22      The condition of the railway, while generally adequate for
present traffic levels, needs to be improved if potential demand is to be
met. Although the track was not seriously damaged during the 1978-79 war,
it is estimated that over 70S is now sub-standard, due to its age (more
than 50 years in some cases) and inadequate maintenance. Many sections are
too light and structurally unsound for modern locomotives and heavier wagon
loads. While this is not considered a major problem at present,
bottlenecks are likely to develop as traffic levels recover. The situaticn
regarding rolling stock and locomotives has improved in recent years as a
result of foreign financing of both rolling stock and spares. URC has
received a considerable amount of rolling stock mainly as bilateral aid.
With new acquisitions of 380 covered wagons, 20 livestock wagons and 20
passenger coaches, rolling stock has increased considerably. In addition,
several hundred tank cars, and covered and open wagons were obtained in
early 1984 as part of the division of EAC assets. Financing has also been
arranged for 240 covered and 60 container wagons. If anything, Uganda
presently has excess rolling stock capacity, except for passenger services
and containers; container wagons are of the highest priority, and further
purchases of covered wagons should wait completion of the ongoing railway
master plan (Pars. 1.12). Similarly, major improvements to the permanent
way, and improved :-ailway signalling are not needed in the near term.
Rehabilitation of Lake Victoria ports including navigational aids and
telecomunications has already been partly undertaken with funding by EEC.
1.23      UAC, whether continning as a carrier to Europe or only as
regional airline, needs a change in its aircraft fleet. Because of noise
restrictions in Europe, the present Boeing 707 aircraft may not be allowed
in the future and these intercontinental-range aircraft are not suitable
for short routes in East Africa. A short-term solution is the conversion
of at least one aircraft with noise-suppressed engines at some US$2.8
million per aircraft. This does not alleviate the increasing maintenance
expense for those relatively old B707 aircraft. The Government has
therefore proposed their replacement with two, more modern, second-hand
aircraft with similar capacity. The ideal solution would be pooling of
traffic with other airlines, particularly on a regional basis. While
reliance on foreign airlines would be the most cost-effective solution, it
is recognized that this would not be readily acceptable for a landlocked
country such as Uganda. The Entebbe Airport navigation services and
telecoammnications rehabilitation have already been carried out. Further
major investment in Entebbe Airport is difficult to justify on the basis of
present traffic. In any event, there is room for generating increased
revenue by raising air fares and by more timely payments by Government for
services rendered. Both measures are essential to ensure the viability of
UAC.



-8- 
P. Transport Policy and Issues
1.24      In addition to its role of planning and coordination for the
sector, the MOT is also responsible for setting transport policy. Although
no clear transport policy has been enunciated, a set of objectives can be
derived from Government actions in the sector. Thus, for international
transport, Government sees rail transport as the principal mode for long
distance freight movement. Moreover, given the current difficulties
experienced with Kenya in operating the corridor to Mombasa, it is seeking
to strengthen an existing alternative route namely, the Lake Victoria -
Tanzania (rail) corridor to Dar es Salaam.  Domestic policy objectives are
considerably less articulate.  For example, the role of the parastatals
vis-a-vis the private sector is not clearly defined.
1.25      A national transport policy needs to be developed on issues like
the degree of government regulation, technical standards for vehicles, the
role of public and private investment, the role of different transport
modes, and levels of performance to be expected. Most of this work has not
started because of limited personnel resources and lack of data. However,
efforts have been made to coordinate policy with neighboring countries
through the recently signed Northern Corridor Transit Agreement (Para 1.08)
which regulates areas such as: the rights of transit, routes and
facilities, coordination of frontier facilities and customs control, and
documentation and procedures for transport. The development of transport
policy will be assisted through a proposed UNDP project (Para. 1.17).
1.26      The financial situation of much of the sector is not encouraging.
With the exception of the Uganda Transport Cooperative Union (UTCU), most
parastatals are in financial difficulty. This is due, partly, to
management limitations but mainly due to the low tariff structure. Clearly,
a more active tariff-policy by the Government is important, with more
frequent tariff revisions to cover at least shor-t-run marginal cost for all
modes.
1.27      The recent improvement in transport services has been primarily
due to new vehicles and better supplies of spare parts, financed through
special exchange rate arrangements and earmarked multilateral and bilateral
aid. The policy to try to move heavy traffic by rail rather than by road
has obviously encouraged some shift of traffic to rail from road. More
important, however, has been the URC's improved rolling stock situation
which enabled the railway to move traffic where road transport has not had
serviceable vehicles available. Some of this traffic will undoubtedly
shift back to road as more private vehicles become available.
1.28      The recent recovery of the transport sector has been primarily
due to specifically targeted investments. Policy change and the 'imited
institutional development have so far not had any significant effects. The
improvements in track conditions and handling facilities of URC, and the
planned road rehabilitation and mainten-nce will take some time. The
substantial increase in 1984 in Government salaries has had some positive



-9-
effect on the transport sector by reducing absenteeism and loss of
Government property.
1.29    A number of institutional issues were raised in the 1983 Transport
Sector Memorandum (TSM) and several have been resolved either independently
or in the context of the ongoing Third Highway Project (see Annex 2). The
transport sector manpower survey which has just been completed is expected
to lead to a technical assistance and training program, particularly for
the URC (Para 1.12). A system of data gathering in the Ministry of
Transpo-c is being establxshed with technical assistance under the on-going
Third Highway project. The IDA reconstruction credits have provided almost
US$10 million (US$5.4 million for RRP projects and US$4.6 million for
equipment and spares). Better coordination between Uganda and Kenya has
been ensured through the recently concluded Northern Corridor Transport
Agreement (Para 1.25). Finally, Entebbe Airport has been brought back to
ICAO safety standards.
G. Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector
1.30     The Association has helped finance three highway projects in
Uganda. The First Highrway Project (Credit 108-UG, US$5.0 million, 1967)
provided for construction to paved standard of the Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru
Road (122 km), construction of several smAll agricultural and feeder roads,
and detailed engineering of 740 km of main and feeder roads. According to
a Bank audit on this project (No. 1623 dated June 19, 1977) the main road
construction was of a poor quality as a result of contractor's inefficient
organization and workmanship and the actual rate of return on this
investment was estimated at 8Z to llZ, alt'iough because of the lack of
adequate maintenance, the returns may even be lower.
1.31     The Second Highway Project (Credit 164-UG, US$11.6 million,
1969), helped finance: (a) constructionlreconstruction of 665 km of
primary, secondary and fee er roads engineered under the previous project;
(b) a highway investment, maintenance and organization study; (c)
feasibility studies and detailed engineering of about 400 km of roads
selected from among those identified in (b) above; and (d) technical
assistance to the MOW. The project was completed in 1980. Project
implementation was hampered, especially after 1975, by a lack of qualified
staff, and high prices of goods due to shortage of supplies. An audit has
not been carried out due to the limited data available; a limited
completion note was prepared (June 14, 1984).
1.32     The ongoing Third Highway Project (Credit 1445-UG, US$58.0
million, 1984) supports a 4-year program (1984-87) to improve maintenance
of the classified road network and periodic maintenance of about 600 km of
bitumen-surfaced roads and about 1,000 km of gravel roads. The project
includes provision for road maintenance and workshop equipment, spare
parts, tools, training aids, supply of fuel and bitumen, and improvements
to the road maintenance training center and MOW workshops. Technical
assistance to MOW and MOT, a pilot program for the development of the local
construction industry and a study for the preparation of a future road



-10-
maintenance program are other components of the project. After some initial
delays, the project is now off to a good start. Bids for civil works and
equipment have been received and evaluated; contracts are being awarded.
Consultants for technical assistance and development of the local
construction industry have been employed.
1.33      The 1972 highway investment, maintenance and organization study
financed under Credit 164-UG (Para. 1.31) was updated in 1982-83 through a
Highway Maintenance and Organization Study (HKOS) carried out with funds
under the First Technical Assistance Credit (1077-UG). In addition, the
transport sector has been assisted by other credits such as the Second
Reconstruction Credit (1252-UG) which provided funds for equipment and
spare parts for MOT and MOW, as well as for some of the parastatals in the
transport sector to help meet urgent requirements of the transport sector.
1.34      The Bank has also made three loans totalling US$104.4 million to
the now defunct EARC to modernize and develop railways in the comnmity
(Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda). All three loans have been disbursed and a
mediation exercise was completed recently to allocate assets and
liabilities of EARC among member states.
B. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.35      The Government's objectives for the transport sector, as outlined
ia its 1985186-1988/89 Investment Plan, are to alleviate constraints on the
movement, marketing and export of agricultural produce and to ensure that
basic transport services are available in the country by (a) restoration of
trunk roads and in particular the main transit routes; (b) rehabilitation
of Government's road maintenance capacity; and (c) rehabilitation of the
railways, including permanent way, rolling stock and hendling facilities.
The Association's lending strategy in support of Government's efforts is to
(i) assist in stopping further deterioration of the country's road network
by strengthening Government's road maintenance capacity (Third Highway
Project, Credit 1445-UG); (ii) rehabilitate roads of key economic
importance (proposed project) and (iii) support rehabilitation of the
railway, where suitable and clearly more economical, and assist with
sector-wide training (a proposed Transport Project, scheduled for FY90).
The roads selected for rehabilitation/strengthening under the program (Para
3.02) consist of sections of the main trunk routes serving local and
transit traffic (to Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire) taking into
consideration rehabilitation works already in progress with assistance from
other donors.



-11-
II.  THE HIGBVt  SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      The highway system of Uganda is in the form of a semi-circle with
Kampala as its center and the circumference broadly following the
international boundaries of the country (Map IBRD 19263). The system is
supported by a network of radials emanating from Kampala towards the
circumference. Secondary and tertiary roads connect these radials with one
another.  The network totals some 26,200 km of which 7,800 km form the
classified road network which is maintained by the MOW. The roads
maintained by the MOW are classified into three categories: primary,
secondary and tertiary. In general, primary roads are important national
and international roads which connect administrative centers with one
another and with neighboring countries.  Secondary roads are either inter-
district roads or roads linking the primary road network with other centers
of economic activity. Tertiary roads serve local population centers and
agricultural areas, and connect them with other roads in the network. The
classified road network comprises 1,970 km of bitumen surfaced roads and
some 5,849 km of gravel roads, a breakdown of which is shown below.
Table 2.1
Road Network
Primary    Secondary    Tertiary     All
Roads       Roads        Roads     Roads    Percentage
Bitumen            1,672           127          171     1,970         25
Gravel             2.289         2.077        1.483     5.849          75
Total            3,961        2,204         1,654     7,819         100
~~~~~-==    ===                          S=3
The remaining about 18,400 km of the road system constitutes the rural/
feeder network, consisting mostly of un-engineered earth/gravel roads, and
is the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Governments (NiLG) through
its district administrations. The maintenance of ruralifeeder roads is
practically non-existent because district administrations lack the required
skills and resources (Para. 3.09). The pilot rural road maintenance
program included in the Program will assist in determining how maintenance
planning and operations of the rural/feeder road system can be improved.
2.02      Although the coverage of the highway network is generally
adequate, road conditions deteriorated substantially during the 1970s due
to the lack of proper maintenance. The situation is particularly severe
for trunk roads serving transit traffic (to Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, Zaire
and Sudan) where high volumes and heavy loads have caused structural damage
and made roads difficult and dangerous for traffic. For the secondary road



-12-
network the situation is somewhat better, due to the decline in vehicular
traffic in recent years.   Nevertheless, in many areas the secondary road
surfaces have become uneven making travel slow, and on some isolated
sections, the gravel has worn or washed off making roads impassable during
the rainy season. This limits the production and marketing of perishable
food, as well as inputs in certain areas.
B. Road Use
2.03      The road vehicle fleet was severely depleted in the 1970s,
falling from around 45,000 at the start of the 1970s to about 35,000 in
1978 and to about 24,000 in 1982. The reduction in the number of vehicles
was most severe for cars and heavy commercial vehicles. In 1984 the number
of vehicles increased to about 25,700, but declined again in 1985 to about
24,200. The composition of the vehicle fleet, excluding Government
vehicles, is shown in Annex 3. While the number of passenger cars has
declined since 1980, the condition and age of the vehicles has improved
significantly, due in large part to foreign financing of spare parts and
investment in new vehicles. Commercial road traffic has also grown
substantially, as indicated by the increase in the import of diesel fuel
from 46,700 tons in 1981 to 64,600 tons in 1985. This growth primarily
reflects the increased internal cargo transport by truck and has been made
possible by the improved availability of spare parts.
2.04      Up until 1972, the MOW maintained reliable traffic counts for all
sections of the classified road network. Annual records were kept for over
240 road sections, including primary, secondary and tertiary roads.
However, from 1973 to 1982 only a few scattered traffic counts were
undertaken, and the records of these were lost during the 1978/79 war. In
1982, the MOW undertook a traffic counting program as a basis for the HHOS
(Para. 1.33); it has recently made traffic counts on some of the trunk
-cads around Kampala and is making arrangements to extend this to other
areas.
2.05      Fuel prices for gasoline and diesel oil are set by the Government
and are adjusted periodically to reflect any changes in the border prices
of the various products. A breakdown of the retail price of gasoline and
diesel fuel is shown in Table 2.2 below.
Table 2.2
Fuel Prices U.Sh./litro
SuR!r Casoijno                     Auto Diesel
Dec. 1984'   Jun- 1985l  Oct. 19862   Dec. 1984  June 1985   Oct. 198s
CIF Malabo      166.66      286.86      287.96     146.10      287.41      268.78
Local Transport   15.11     29.36                    6.17       16.24
Landed Cost     17b17.                             iWi.7       33.30 55
Custom Duty      66.29      121.74                  36.23       69.64
Company Margin    48.68     130.91                  48.68      130.91
Sub-total       285.73      667.86                 234.50      504.20
Sales Tax/Rebate   (2.53)   51.33                   (1.3       (35.02)
Ex-depot price   283.20     619.18                 233.20      469.18
Dealer Margin    16.80       80.82                  16.80       30.82
Retail Price    a3.50       550.00     1,10W.00    260.W0    5600.         53o.90
]/ Based on an exchange rate of USS1.30 = U Sh. 500.
' Based on an exchange rate of US1.00 = U Sh. 1,400.



-13-
As shown in the above table, the tax differential between diesel and
gasoline fuels still reflects the Government's desire to use gasoline
taxation as a source of general Government revenue. The fuel prices are
adjusted with changes in exchange rates; the pump price for fuel has
substantially exceeded the international price at the official exchar4e
rates. However, the Government's revenue from duty and sales tax has
declined due to the lack of corresponding increase in retail prices to rhe
consumers (Para.2.24).
C. The Road Transport Industry
2.06      Public transport services are mainly provided by private
operators. Also, there are four parastatal bodies: Uganda Transport
Company (UTC), People's Transport Company (PTC), Uganda Trensport
Cooperative Union (UTCU) a-id Transocean Ltd. UTC and PTC provide passenger
bus services, the former mostly in Kampala and also on some routes in
western and southern Uganda, and the latter in the eastern and northern
parts of Uganda. These together own some 60 buses of which 40 are in
operating condition. Both UTC and PTC are loss-making operations. UTC is
unable to meet the substantial demand for transport to and from work.
Where little or no bus transportation is available there has been a sharp
increase in the number of minibuses (matatus) in the country. In 1985 of a
total licensed public service vehicles of 2,120, 1,632 were matatus.
2.07      In addition to the two passenger parastatals UTC and PTC, there
are a number of private bus companies licensed to operate on specific
routes. Many of these carriers compete directly with the two parastatals,
but the private carriers charge two to three times the fares charged by UTC
and FTC. Essentially, these are either operators of regular buses or of
small minibuses, the latter charging the highest fares. There is a serious
shortage of public passenger transport in Uganda, and in Kampala passengers
often have to wait more than an hour for a bus.  Thus the majority of
workers in the central business district walk to work.
2.08      The major part of goods transport is provided by private
operators or cooperatives at freely set rates. Interfreight, a private
company, is the major operator for freight transport; it has a newly
established container freight station just outside Kampala. UTCU, a fully
autonomous cooperative under the umbrella of the Ministry of Cooperatives,
is another major freight transporter in the country; it operates about 130
vehicles ranging in size from 8 to 18 tons in carrying capacity. The UTCU
is currently owned by 30 regional co-op unions which are its shareholders.
The regional co-ops in turn are owned by individual farmers set up as
district unions. The UTCU wa set up mainly to provide transport for its
members but it also acts as a for-hire carrier to others.  Its members are
provided transport at cost while others are provided at profit. UTCU's
main role is to move coffee from the farms to the Coffee Marketing Board's
central processing plant in Kampala but lately it has moved some coffee
from Kampala to Mombasa. UTCU is building a new centralized maintenance
workshop in Kampala.



-14-
2.09      Rehabilitation of Uganda's transport system is crucial to the
country's economic recovery. The transport system has an important role to
play in the import of needed commodities, particularly petroleum, and in
exporting goods, mostly coffee, tea, cotton and tobacco. Road transport
carries a major part of imports, including petroleum, and virtually all
transit cargo, mostly from Kenya to Rwanda, Burundi, and Zaire. In 1983
the exports were about 184,000 tons, of which coffee comprised 144,000 tons
(80,000 tons by rail) and maize 30,000 tons (all by rail and ferry across
Lake Victoria). Petroleum imports were some 190,000 tons, carried
overwhelmingly by road. Road transport also plays a vital role in the
movement of most marketable production of food crops, such as cereals,
plantains and beans. A yearly volume of some 1.2-1.5 million tons is moved
by road to various urban areas with most of it to Kampala.
2.10      While there once existed a flourishing road transport industry in
Uganda, the substantially reduced economic activity and the vehicle fleet
decimation which followed the 1978179 war have severely reduced the number
and size of carriers. After the war, the Government purchased about 600
trucks primarily to transport coffee. Most of these vehicles were sold to
transport co-operatives. Part of the truck fleet originally purchased by
Government was also sold to various marketing boards including the Coffee
Marketing Board, the Cotton Marketing Board and the Produce Marketing
Board.
Tran sort Re"ulation
2.11      The Road Traffic and Safety Act of 1970 empowered the Government
to regulate the road transport industry as necessary from an operational,
economic and safety point of view. The HOT publishes tariffs as guidelines
for carriers of passengers and freight. The transport of passengers is,
however, more strictly regulated both in terms of routes and tariffs.
Passenger carriers must apply to the Transport Licensing Board for
permission to operate on a specific route. The applications are publicly
announced and hearings are held. Carriers already providing service on the
route in question can oppose the application and the Board decides whether
or not public convenience and necessity dictates that a new carrier should
be allowed to operate. New carriers do not experience any difficulty in
getting such permission due to this regulation. The tariffs charged by UTC
and PTC are regulated by the MOT, but private carriers are only provided
with an indicative rate.   Freight transport is free of tariff regulations.
2.12      Regulated rates charged by UTC and PTC are non-remunerative and
barely cover out of pocket expenses. The allocation for equipment
replacement is inadequate. As a result, the service levels have
deteriorated substantially and the public suffers from reduced transport
availability to the extent that UTC and PTC together provide only about 2Z
of all road passenger transport. If the Government wishes to provide a
subsidized public passenger service, the parastatal companies should be
encouraged to restructure their operations on a commercial basis with
Govermment providing a direct operating subsidy. These points were



-15-
discussed with Government at the time of the Trsnsport Sector Review, and
under the on-going Third Highway Project and it had been agreed with
Government that it would establish passenger tariffs based on the
reco_endations of the IDA financed parastatal accounting study. The study
completed in 1985, however, did not include UTCIPTC. Meanwhile, Governmc.t
has increased substantially the tariff levels for UTCIPTC.
D.   Traffic Regulations and Safety
2.13      Despite its power to do so the HOT did not have to regulate
vehicle weight, dimensions, inspections, licensing and safety because until
the breakup of the EAC in 1977 the control of toad vehicles was not a
problem since most heavy traffic moved by rail. However, with the
inefficiency of URC and the diversion of traffic to roads, the situation
has changed drastically and the size and axle loadings of heavy vehicles is
having a detrimental effect on roads. The NOT has prepared new traffic and
safety legislation in line with the standards required by the member states
of the orthern Corridor which were approved by Government in June 1986.
Annez 4 abows the new vehicle weights and dimensions which are appropriate.
The Government is now taking steps to procure weighbridges in order to
enforce such regulations.
S. Administration
2.14      HOW is responsible for the planning, construction and maintenance
of the classified road network while local governments are responsible for
the rest (Para. 2.01). The MOW has two divisions: Development Division;
and Technical Division (see Chart I). The Development Division comprises
four sections: Planning, Design, Construction, and Airport; the Technical
Division comprises four sections: Road Maintenance, Training, Materials
Laboratory, and Mechanical. The MOW organization, though understaffed, is
structurally sound.
2.15      The maintenance section of the Technical Division is responsible
for the upkeep and maintenance of roads. Responsibility for maintenance of
the road network is divided into four geographical areas, each headed by an
area engineer. Each area in turn is divided into a number of maintenance
districts; there are currently 20 districts performing road maintenance
tasks. Routine maintenance is done by work gangs (about 5 men), each
covering an average of 8 km of road, under the supervision of headmen who
report to the road overseer; periodic maintenance (resealinglregravelling)
is done with the help of special crews under inspectors of workidistriet
engineers. At the headquarters level, the chief road maintenance engineer
who heads the road maintenance section is assisted by three senior
executive engineers, one for the Eastern and Central Area, one for the
Northern and Western Area, and one for special projects.
2.16      The mechanical section is responsible for the repair and maint-
enance of vehicles and plant of all Government ministries/departments, and
is headed by a chief mechanical engineer located at the central workshop in
Kmpala. Under the central workshop there are four area workshops (at



-16-
Kampala, Mbale, Gulu and Fort Portal) and thirteen district workshops.
While the central and area workshops handle major overhauls/repairs for
vehicles and plant, the district workshops take care of light repairs and
routine servicing. The central workshop, in addition, undertakes
rebuilding of engines, transmissions and other equipment components. About
70Z of overall workload in MOW workshops relates to road maintenance
vehicles and plant. However, as a result of damage to workshop structures,
and the looting caused during the 1978179 war, the workshops do not
currently have facilities to adequately repair and maintain MOW's
equipment. The ongoing Third Highway Project is assisting with
supplementary workshop equipment and tools to help upgrade the maintenance
and repair capability of MOW workshops. In addition, it provides for the
needed repairlreconstruction of workshop structures.
2.17      The MOW has a well equipped materials testing laboratory located
outside Kampala. It not only provides testing services for the MOW, but
also provides such services to other Government agencies and private firms
on a charge basis. The laboratory, headed by the chief materials engineer,
is divided into four sections: soils; concrete; bitumen; and chemical.
F. Staffing & Training
2.18      The MOW is understaffed; several senior and middle management
positions, as well as lower posts at MOW headquarters and in the field, are
vacant; the average ministry-wide vacancy rate is around 40x-- the rate
being particularly high in the design and road maintenance sections. In
view of the budgetary constraints under which Government is currently
functioning, there is a general embargo on filling vacant posts; however,
they can be filled with prior Government approval if properly qualified
individuals are available. During 1982-86, MOW recruited some 20 newly
graduated engineers; it has recently filled the two key positions of
Engineer-in-Chief and Deputy Engineer-in-Chief, and has placed qualified
individuals in acting positions for the posts of Chief Planning Engineer
and Chief Road Maintenance Engineer. MOW is now processing regular
appointments to these positions with the Ugandan Public Service Commission.
Agreement was reached with Government at negotiations that the vacant
positions of Chief Planning Engineer and Chief Road Maintenance Engineer
will be filled with suitably qualified and experienced persons not later
than October 31, 1987 (Para. 6.01 (a)). To help alleviate staffing
shortages and to improve MOW's road maintenance planning and operations the
ongoing Third Highway Project provides seven technical assistance staff
(186 man-months); these will be augmented by another three (90 man-months)
under the proposed Project (Para.3.11).
2.19      The training section of the Technical Division is responsible for
training activities of the MOW. In the past the MOW's road maintenance
training center (RMTC) at Kyambogo, just outside Kampala, provided class-
room and on-the-job training to road maintenance personnel (road inspec-
tors, overseers and headmen); separate facilities within the central
workshop were used for classroom instruction, coordinated with on-the-job
training, of mechanical staff (foremen, plant operators, mechanics, etc.).
However, training equipment both at the RMTC and the central workshop were
either damaged or looted during the war, and have not yet been restored.
The ongoing Third Highway Project will help re-establish the training
facilities at the RMTC as well as at the central workshop.



-17-
2.20      The MOW has also drawn on the resources of external training
facilities such as Makerere University and the Uganda Technical College,
located just outside Kampala, for training of its staff. The university
offers courses leading to Bachelor's degree in civil, electrical and
mechanical engineering; the yearly intake of students varies from 60 to 65.
The college offers courses leading to ordinary diplomalhigher diploma in
civil, electrical and mechanical engineering. It also offers a technical
teacher training course, and has residential facilities for about 600
students.
2.21      There are a number of technical secondary schools in the country
providing craftmenlmaster craftsmen training to secondary school leavers,
and 4 vocational training institutes/centers run by the Directorate of
Industrial Training under the Ministry of Labor. The courses offered are
automobile repairing, machine fitting and assembly, welding and
fabrication, carpentry, brick laying, etc. The Vocational Training
Institute, Nakawa and the Vocational Training Center, Lugogo are located
just outside Kampala, while the other two namely (i) the YMCA Vocational
Training Center; and (ii) the Jinja Vocational Training Center are located
at Jinja, which has the largest concentration of manufacturing industry in
the country. In sumary, the training facilities in the country are
adequate in size for the foreseeable needs of MOW.
G. Planning and Financinz of Investments
2.22      Planning in the road sub-sector is carried out by the planning
section of the Development Division under MOW in cooperation with MOT, and
in particular, MPED which has taken on the task of sectoral coordination in
the preparation and execution of the investment plans, as well as in
identifying and arranging necessary financing. The initial Recovery
Program for the period 1982-1984 (Para.l.19) provided the basis for
investment requirements for the highway sub-sector which have been updated
in the 1985/86-1988189 Investment Plan without any major changes. A
sunnary of the proposed investments is shown in Annex 1.
2.23      Road maintenance is financed from the recurrent budget while
capital investments are financed from a separate budget which comes mainly
from external sources. Therefore funds for new construction do not
directly compete with other sectors for scarce local funds. The
expenditure on road maintenance increased from U Sh. 405.4 million (USS 4.8
million equivalentl in FY 1982 to U sh. 5,678 million (US$ 5.7 million
equivalent2 in FY 1986. The amount allocated for FY 87 is U Sh. 9,554
million (USS 6.8 million equivalent3 which is adequate considering that
the MOW has not yet acquired its full complement of equipment for road
11US$ 1.0 = U Sh. 85.15 (December 1981)
2/US$ 1.0 = U Sh. 1,000 (December 1985)
3/US$1.0 = U Sh. 1,400 (June 1986)



-18-
maintenance. In order to ensure the availability of funds it was agreed
with the Government at negotiations that it will, not later than four
months before the beginning of each fiscal year, review with the
Association (a) its highway investment plan; (b) the budgetary requirements
and the proposed budgetary allocation for road maintenance over the period
FY 1988-93; and (c) any shortfall in the allocation of funds to be made up
in the subsequent year (Para 6.01 (b)).
2.24      Revenues from road user charges are well in excess of highway
maintenance costs. The two most important ones are the border tolls for
foreign vehicles which for FY86 yielded U Sh. 5,700 million (US$5.7 million
equivalent4 and custom duty on gasoline and diesel oil of about U Sh.
7,300 million (US$7.3 million equivalent). This may be compared to MOW's
maintenance expenditure of U Sh. 5,678 million for FY86 (about US$5.7
million equivalent) (see Annex 5). The fuel tax is a major source of
general Government revenue which has declined in relatl'e terms as a result
of inadequate adjustment of retail fuel prices to the consumers. A system
of more frequent adaptation of fuel prices is recommended and the matter
will be pursued in the economic dialogue with Government.
B. Enzineerinf and Construction
2.25      The design section of the Development Division carries out minor
road and bridge design including field investigations, while all economic
feasibility and detailed engineering studies for major projects are done by
foreign consultants. There are some local private consultants in the
country, but they are generally involved with structural design. The
established general standards and specifications for roads are acceptable.
2.26      Major construction works financed by outside agencies are awarded
following prequalification and international competitive bidding, and are
supervised by foreign consultants. In the past, some local firms had the
capability to execute road works; the MOW maintained a roster of
contracting firms with a classification based on the value of works for
which they were eligible to bid, but this system is no longer in force. At
present, works awarded to local firms are mostly based on unit rates
approved by the Central Tender Board on the basis of quotations obtained
from contractors each year. Much like other sectors, the road construction
industry in Uganda is suffering the consequences of a decade of disruptions
in economic activity, and is currently at 10-202 of the pre-1974 capacity.
There are some 10 medium-sized and a number of small local contractors
which have been engaged in minor road upgrading and periodic maintenance
works but they lack proper equipment, management expertise and trained
manpower to perform effectively and profitably. The pilot program for
development of local construction industry included in the ongoing Third
Highway Project is assisting with the training of a few selected local
flrms on different phases of construction, such as tender preparation, site
organization and management, personnel management, etc.
4/ US$ 1.0 = U Sh. 1,000 (December 1985)



-19-
I. Ma4ntenanc
2.27      MOW's road maintenance organization is basically sound, but
because of staff shortages and lack of adequate equipment and trained
manpower, the quality and quantity of road maintenance is unsatisfactory.
Much of MOW's existing equipment and plant are old and unserviceable; of
the 170 major items, 103 (60S) are unserviceable. MOW workshops lack
proper equipment, tools, spare parts and trained mechanics. As a
consequence, equipment availability for road maintenance is low (about
40%). Routine maintenance is carried out sporadically; periodic
maintenance has not been undertaken on a meaningful basis since 1973.
Based on data by MOW, only about 165 km (8x) out of the 1,970 km of paved
road were resealed and some 1,650 km (28S) out of the 5,850 km of gravel
roads were regravelled in the last 14 years. Due to the lack of proper
maintenance varying degrees of deterioration of riding surfaces, shoulders
and roadside drainage are evident throughout the paved and unpaved road
network. The more heavily trafficked roads show pronounced deterioration;
paved roads have developed deep potholes and surface cracks, besides
extensive edge ravelling and skin failures, and in the worst cases they
require major rehabilitation. Most gravel roads have completely lost their
gravel and have reverted to earth roads which makes them impassable during
rains. The results of the HMOS shows that about 732 of the road network is
in a condition requiring minor rehabilitation andlor maintenance; the rest
is in need of major rehabilitation or pavement strengthening. The ongoing
Third Highway Project aims at improving routine maintenance of the
classified road network and periodic maintenance of certain selected roads
(Para 1.32).



-20-
III. THE PROGRAM
A. Obiectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed program are to:
Mi)    protect capital investment and to increase the service
life of essential roads serving local and transit traffic
to other land-locked countries;
(ii)   help improve maintenance planning and operations of
rural/feeder roads serving agricultural areas; and
(iii)  strengthen institutions responsible for project
implementation.
B. Description
3.02      The program comprises:
(i) highbay rehabilitation/strengthening:
(a) Kampala-Jinja Road (72 km);
(b) Mbarara - Rubaare Road (85 km);
(c) Mbarara - Ishaka - Katunguru Road (122 km);
(ii) a pilot rural road maintenance program; and
(iii) consultant services for:
(a)  construction supervision;
(b)  technical assistance to MOWIMLG; and
(c)  a feasibility study and, if justified,
detailed engineering of the Soroti - Lira Road
approximately 120 km).
(i) Highay RehabilitationlStrengthening
3.03      The prolonged lack of effective maintenance of the country's road
network has resulted in varying degrees of deterioration of riding
surfaces, shoulders and roadside drains. The situation is particularly
severe for trunk roads serving transit traffic to other land-locked



-21-
countries where high volume and heavy loads have caused structural damage
and made roads difficult and dangerous for traffic (para.2.02). Engineering
investigation for four such roads namely, (i) the Kampala -Jinja Road; (ii)
the Masaka - Mbarara Road; (iii) the Mbarara - Ishaka - Katunguru Road; and
(iv) the Nbarara - Rubaare Road (a total of 413 km), requiring
rehabilitation/strengthening started in 1983 with financing from the
Technical Assistance Credit 1077-UG. Of these, the Masaka - Mbarars Road
(134 km) is being included by Government in the National Indicative Program
to be financed by EEC under Lome III. The remainivg three roads, presented
below, would form part of the proposed highway rehabilitation program (279
km).
3.04       Kempala - Jinja Road: links the capital city of Kampala with
Jinja which has the largest concentration of manufacturing industries in
the country. It traverses slightly rolling terrain and serves areas of
rich agricultural potential. The road passes through Lugazi where sugar
industries are concentrated, and is very heavily trafficked (Annex 10).
The results of the engineering investigations show that the road has
reached the end of its useful life with low residual strength of the
existing pavement; due to the lack of maintenance, road shoulders are badly
eroded and have encroached on the road pavement making it narrower and
dangerous for traffic. Apart from some 20% of its length, mainly the first
30 km from Kampala, the road pavement would require partial or complete
reconstruction.
3.05      Mbarara-Rubaare Road: forms part of the main import/export route
for Rwanda and Burundi. It traverses flat to rolling terrain intercepted
by short hilly sections where grades are steep. The road was built in the
late 1960s and has not been resealed since. Due to the lack of maintenance
and high proportion of heavy vehicles (over 55%), the road has deteriorated
to a point where passage of vehicles has become difficult if not dangerous;
in sections the road has reverted to a gravel road and would require
complete reconstruction.
3.06      Nbarara-Ishaka - Katunaurn  Road: forms part of the trunk route
from Kampala to Fort Partal via Masaka, Mbarara and Bushenyi. It traverses
flat to rolling terrain intercepted by a short hilly to mountainous section,
and serves areas of rich agricultural potential. The road was built in 1970
with the assistance of IDA under the First Highway Project. The road
construction was of a poor quality as a result of contractor's inefficient
organization and workmanship (Para. 1.30). Due to the lack of maintenance,
the road has badly deteriorated; it suffers frcm extensive damages in the
form of deep potholes, surface cracks, shoulder erosion and poor drainage; in
sections, the road pavement has completely disintegrated. The results of the
engineering investigations show that the road has outlived its useful life
and would require partial or complete reconstruction.



-22.-
3.07      The consultants designed pavement rehabilitationistrengthening
alternatives taking into account traffic predictions for a service life of
10 to 20 years. Based on technical and economic evaluation of different
alternatives, they concluded, and Government and the Association agreed,
that the preferred solution was for a service life of 15 years. The
proposed works consist of pavement strengthening/reconstruction, widening/
reconstruction of shoulders and [mprovement of roadside drains. Suitable
construction materials are available within reasonable distances; no land
acquisition is involved since Program roads will follow the existing
alignments.
3.08      The design standards adopted for the roads are based on the
general standards adopted by MOW. These are shoun in Annex 6.
(ii) Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program
3.09      District administrations under MLG lack the required skills and
resources to adequately develop and maintain rural roads. As a result the
roads are in poor shape, generally without proper formation or drainage,
and receive little, if any, maintenance. Government wishes to undertake a
pilot program to determine how maintenance planning and operations of rural
roads can be improved. The program includes a notional provision for
setting up a few small workshops and road camps in a selected area, as well
as for supply of some basic equipment and tools. It also includes a rural
road maintenance engineer to assist MLG with the preparation and
implementation of the program (Pars.3.12), in establishing a system for
preparing inventories of the road network and in establishing an
appropriate road maintenance set-up in the district administrations. It
was agreed with Government at negotiations that the pilot program to be
prepared with the assistance of the rural road maintenance engineer will be
submitted for the Association's review prior to its implementation (Para.
6.01 (c)).
(iii) Consultant Services
(a) Construction Supervision
3.10      The Program provides funding for consultants to supervise the
execution of road rehabilitationlstrengthening works.
(b) Technical Assistance
3.11      MOW's organization is severely understaffed; the majority of
personnel lack the qualifications and/or experience necessary for efficient
task performance. To assist with project coordination and to help train
freshly graduared engineers in the MOW's design and materials laboratory
sections, the Program provides funding for a highway engineer (project
coordinator) and two road design engineers for a period of 30 months each.
The draft terms of reference, given in Annex 7, were discussed and agreed
with Government during negotiations (Pars 6.01 (d)).



-23-
3.12      The Program also provides funding for a rural road maintenance
engineer for a period of 30 months to assist !LG with the preparation and
implementation of the pilot rural road maintenance program (Para. 309).
(c) Feasibility Study and Detailed Enmineerina
3.13      The Program provides funding for consultants to carry out a
fe-sibility study and, if justified, detailed engineering of the Soroti-
Lira Road (120 km). This is a poorly engineered gravel road, in places
narrow and lacking adequate drainage; the horizontal and vertical profile
of the road is generally unsatisfactory.  The road passes through a major
cotton growing area and connects the two Important towns of Soroti and
Lira, where a spinning mill is situated. This road is the only unpaved
section of the Tororo-Mbale-Soroti-Lira-Gulu Road and the traffic between
Tororo and Gulu at present follows a circuitous route via Kampala, a
distance of about 550 km compared to about 400 km along the direct route
via Soroti and Lira. The upgrading of the road is included in the
Government's 1985186 - 1988189 Investment Plan. The draft terms of
reference for the study, shown in Annex 8, were discussed and agreed with
Government during negotiations (Para. 6.01 (e)).
C. Protram Costs and Financinz
Proaran Costs
3.14      The total cost of the program including contingencies is
estmasted at US$66.6 million. Excluding taxes and duties, the total cost
is US$60 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$52 million
or 87S of the costs excluding taxes.  Program base costs are in January
1987 prices. The cost estimates for higbway rehabilitationlstrengthening
works were prepared by engineering consultants and updated by the appraisal
mission (Para. 3.15). Physical contingencies of 102 on local and foreign
costs have been added to base costs excluding pilot rural road maintenance
programs. Price contingencies to provide for anticipated cost increases
over the impl_emntation period are based on price increases of 3.02 p.a. in
1987; 1.02 p.a. each in 1988, 1989 and 1990; and 3.52 each in 1991 and
1992. The international rates have been also used for local costs on the
assumption that the difference between domestic and international price
inflation will be offset by adtustments in the foreign exchange rate. A
breakdown of costs is shown in T,able 3.1.



-24-
TAKE 3.1
Prar9m Cost Estimstee
o  Foreign
It"                     _OCEI    Fbrol                              Tatal       Component
I.  Highway Rehabilitation/Strengthening
(i)  K mpaia-Jinja Road                     4.9        16.7      29.6           76
(ii) Mbaras-Rubare Road                     8.2         9.7      12.9           7
(iii) Mberar_-I-haka Katunguru Road         8.8        13.2      16.S           8e
II. Pilot Rural Roads Maintenance Progrm         0.2         0.8       1.0           80
III. Consultant Services
(i)  Construction Supervision               0.8         8.2       4.0           80
(ii) Technical Assistance                   0.8         1.2       1.5           80
(iii) Studies                               0.1         9.5 6.6                 63
Subtotal                             12.8        44.3      57.1           78
Contingencies
(1)  Physlc I 1N on items I A III           1.2         4.4       5.6
(ii) Price / on it      A L III            .0.7         8.2       3.9
Total Program Cost                   14.7        51.9      66.6           78
Total Program Cost Excluding Taxes    7.7        61.9      69.6           87
On Rounding                     (89.)       (52.0)   (C69.)
1/ Expected price increase (X)
1967  1988   1989   1900   1991    1992
Local A Foreign   3.0   1.0    1.5    1.0         . 5     3.6



-25-
3.15      Program base cost estimates have been derived as follows:
(a) Highway RehabilitationlStrenathenin : Based on detailed
engineering studies, unit costs and quantities developed by engineering
consultants. These have been reviewed and updated to reflect the actual
bid prices for the section Km 0-24 of the Kampala-Jinja Road and for the
section Mbarara-Ishaka of the Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru Road.
(b) Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Progr  : A notional amount has
been included for setting up a few small workshops and road camps, and for
supply of some basic equipment and tools (Para. 3.09).
(c) Consulting Services: The construction supervision of
highway rehabilitationistrengthening works will require about 350 man-
months of consultant services over a 26-month period; technical assistance
to MOWIMLG, 120 man-months over a 30-month period; and studies, about 45
man-months over a 12-month period. The cost estimates for consultant
services are based on similar and ongoing services in Uganda.
Program Financir
3.16     IDA will finance part of the Program comprising (i)
rehabilitationJstrengthening works and related supervision in the section
Km 0-24 of the Kampala-Jinja Road and the Nbarc-a-Ishaka section of the
Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru Road; (ii) pilot rural road maintenance program
and (iii) technical assistance and studies (Para 4.01). AfDB will finance
rehabilitationlstrengthening and related supervision of the section Km 24-
72 of the Kampala-Jinja Road, and has expressed interest in the Ishaka-
Katunguru section of the Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru Road. The Mbarara-
Rubarare Road is being included in the National Indicative Program to be
financed under Lome III (Para 3.03).
D. Economic Justification of the Proaram
3.17      Economic analysis of individual roads to be rehabilitated is
presented in Chapter V.



-26-
IV. The Prolect
A.  Project Co tositon and Costs
4.01      The IDA project would consist of: (i) rehabilitation/
strengthening of the Rampala-Jinja Road (km 0-24) and the Ebarara-Ishaka
Road, and -elated supervision; (ii) pilot rural road maintenance program;
(iii) technical assistance; and (iv) feasibility study and, if feasible,
detailed engineering of the Soroti-Lira Road. The total cost of the
project including contingencies is estimated at US$21.8 million, with a
foreign exchange component of USS18 million or 82Z. IDA would finance the
foreign exchange component and the Government would cover the balance. A
breakdown of project costs is shown in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1
Project Cost Estimates
S Foreign
I' Highway RehabilIt tlon/strongthening
(i)  Kampala-Jinja Road (Km e-24)                  0.9      4.9      5.6           64
(ii) Mbarar_-Zahaka Road (69 ki)                   1.6      6.C      8.1 9
II. Pilot Rural Roads airtenence Progrm                0.2       9.0      1.9           a9
III. Consultant Services
(i)  Construction Supervision                      0.3      1.4      1.7           62
(ii) Technical Assistance                          9.3      1.2      1.5            9
(iii) Studi;e                                      0.1      9.6      9.6           83
Subtotal                                     8.4      15.8    a6.7            62
Contingencis
(i)  Physi; I 1US on items I and III            J.3       1.5      1.6
(i;) Pr=ce on items I and 13I                  8.2       1.1      1.3
Totel Project Cost                    3.9      17.9    21.8           82
Total Project Cost Excluding Taxes    1.9      17.9    1908           9s
on Rounding                         (2.9)     (1i.6)   (2J9.)
3/ Erpected price increases (5)
1987  1968  1969  1990  1991   1992
Local a
Foreign    3.c   1.9   1.9   1.9    8.5   8.5



-27-
B.  Implementation and Procuresent
4.02      Project implementation will be the responsibility of the M0W
except for the pilot rural road maintenance program which would be
implemented by the HLG. An implementation schedule shown in Chart II was
agreed with Government during negotiations (para 6.01 (f)).
4.03      The road works estimated to cost US$16.3 million, including
contingencies, will be procured under unit price contracts through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for procurement. The project roads are divided into two contracts: (1)
Kampala-Jinja Road (Km 0-24) and (2) Mbarara-Ishaka Road. The civil
works, equipment, and tools required for the pilot rural road
maintenance program are not expected to attract international
competitive bidding. The workshops and road camps estimated to cost US$
0.5 million will be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the
Association; items of equipment and tools costing less than US$ 20,000
each and estimated to cost a total of US$ 0.5 million will be procured
from dealers on the basis of at least three quotations. All contracts
except those for civil works, equipment and tools required for the pilot
rural road maintenance program would be submitted for prior review by
the Association; this will cover 952 of the project costs. The
consultants for construction supervision, technical assistance and the
feasibility and detailed engineering studies will be employed in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. These
were agreed with Government during negotiations (Para 6.01 (g)).   For
construction supervision of highway rehabilitation/strengtheuing
Government proposes to employ the same consultants who carried out
detailed engineering studies for the project roads.
4.04      Procurement arrangements are summarised in Table 4.2 below.
Tabl- 4.2
Pvseurgmsnt flatbed
Tote I
Proiect Element      lCB   LCD   Other      Cost
_==-f I lIIon==
Civil Works          16.3   -       -         16.3
(13.4)
Pilot Rural Road
Maintenance Program   -      0.5    9.6 2/     1.0
(0.4)  (0.4)      (0.8)
Consultant Servicee   -      -      4.C 3/     4.S
(3.7)     (3.7)
Total         16.3   9. OS   .        21.8
(13.4)  (0.4)  (4.1)    (17.9)
1J Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
  Local Shopping.
PI Dank Cuidelines for the Use of Consultants.



-28-
C. Disburseents
4.05      Credit funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for highway
rehabilitationlstrengthening;
(b) 80X of local expenditures for civil works under the pilot
rural road maintenance program;
(c) 1001 of foriegn expenditures and 802 of local
expenditures for road maintenance equipment and tools
under the pilot rural road maintenance program; and
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures fcr consultant
services.
4.06      The project is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1993
and the Credit closing date would be December 31, 1993. An estimated
schedule of disbursements of Credit funds is set out below (Table 4.3).
The disbursement schedule is close to the standard disbursement profile
for highway projects in the region. In order to expedite and facilitate
disbursements it was agreed at negotiations that the Government will
open a special account in a commercial bank with an initial deposit of
US$1.0 million by IDA to serve as a revolving fund for all IDA eligible
expenditures. A condition of Credit effectiveness will be that the
special account has been opened by the Government (Para. 6.02). All
expenditures from the special account would be reimbursed on a net-of-
tax basis. Reimbursement applications would be grouped into packages of
at least US$20,000 equivalent and would be fully documented. The
expenses related to the pilot rural road maintenance program would be
reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures for which
documentation would be retained for review by the Association.



-29-
Table 4.3
Estl-tad Schedul- ot oflabr metr
Fiscal Year                                             Cumulative
and End of                                             Di;bursement
Quarter                                              at End of Quartor
usl, on
1968
June 30, 1988                                             1,000
1989
Septeber 30, 1968                                         2,668
Dec b r 31, 1989                                          3,090
March 31, 1989                                            4,680
June 30, 1989                                             6,0J0
1990
September 38, 1999                                        6,060
December 31, 1989                                         7,060
March 31, 1990                                            8,000
June 80, 1990                                             9i,00
1991
Sept_embr 30 1999                                       10,060
Decewmr 31, 1990                                        11,000
March 31, 1991                                          12,605
June 36, 1991                                           13,000
1992
September 30 l19                                        14,000
December 81, 1991                                       15,000
March 81, 1992                                          15,b00
June 80, 1992                                           16,900
1993
September 36 1992                                       18,560
December 81, 1992                                       17,000
March 81, 1998                                          17,S00
June 80, 1993                                           18,000
Closing Date: December 81, 1993
Source: Mission Estimtes



-30-
D, Accounting, Auditinz & RePortins Requirements
4.07      The Accounting Section of the MOV maintains accounts of all capital
and recurrent expenditures on works financed locally.   For projects financed
by outside agencies it forwards certified copies of all contractor/consultant
certificates to the Treasury. The Accounting Section is an extension of the
Treasury Department; all accounts staff above mid-levels are employees of the
Treasury Department. The section is well staffed. As part of a training
program in public sector accounts and audit in Uganda, the Glasgow College of
Technology is conducting each year an intensive ten-week full time course in
accounting and auditing for training of senior accountants in the Government.
4.08      Under the Public Finance Act, the Auditor General submits, by March
31 each year, his report on the audit of various ministries and departments
of Government to the National Assembly through the Minister of Finance.
Agreement was reached with Government at negotiations that all project
accounts including project-related statements of expenditures and special
account will be audited by the Auditor General or other independent auditors
according to generally accepted accounting procedures and that the Government
will submit certified copies of such accounts together with the auditors'
opinions and reports to the Association not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year (Para. 6.01 (h)).
4.09      At negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on progress
reporting requirements (Annex 9) which include indices for measuring
implementation progress, and submission of a project completion report in a
form satisfactory to the Bank not later than six months after the closing
date of the Credit (Para. 6.01 (i)).
E. Environmental Aspects
4.10      The project is not likely to have any adverse effect on the
environment. The project roads would follow the existing alignment, and no
disturbance to land use should occur. In fact, improved drainage facilities
along the road will benefit adjacent areas and soil erosion would be less
than at present.



-31-
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROGRAM
A. General
5.01      The main objective of Uganda's 1982-84 initial Recovery Program
and the subsequent investment plans in the transport sector has been to
alleviate constraints in the movement, marketing and export of agricultural
produce and make basic services available to restore the economy. The
primary sectors for the Government are agriculture, industry and transport,
with improvements to the transport sector critical to both agricultural and
industrial recovery. For the transport sector the highest priorities are
rehabilitation of the railways, restoration of the main trunk roads,
rehabilitation of road maintenance capacity and iinroved institutional
capability. Railway rehabilitation has been the subject of considerable
bilateral aid and road maintenance is the main focus of the ongoing Third
Highway project (Credit 1445-UG). In the Government's Investment Plan for
1985186-1988189 (Para. 1.21) a major goal is the restoration of the most
heavily travelled trunk routes serving local and transit traffic from Kenya
to Burundi, Rwanda and eastern Zaire.
5.02      The proposed Program would focus on the most critical links of
the trunk road system, in particular the most heavily trafficked Kampala-
Lugazi-Jinja Road (Annex 10) linking the city of Kampala with the
industrial centre of Jinja. The road from Tororo (Kenya Border) to Jinja
is being improved under bilateral aid by FRG and from Kampala to Masaka by
EEC. The Masaka-Mbarara Road is being considered for financing by EEC
under Lome III while other parts of the transit route from Mbarara-Rubaare
(to Rwanda) and Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru (to Zaire) are included in the
Program. The estimated traffic on the proposed road sections are included
in Annex 11.
B. Area of Influence of the ProRram. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.03      The Program includes the rehabilitation of 279 km of the most
seriously deteriorated road sections of the highest priority roads in the
country which connect some of the more populated areas of Uganda (see Map
IBRD 19263). The Kampala-Jinja districts include some 1.5 million
inhabitants and Nbarare-Ishaka another 1.4 million, or some 20% of the
total Ugandan population. This is also not only the most industrialized
area of the country but includes some of the best agricultural districts.
5.04      The main benefit of the highway rehabilitation/strengthening will
be its impact on reducing vehicle operating costs as shown in Annex 12.
Improved road conditions will allow better access to productive areas,
provide cheaper and more reliable transport, arrest deterioration of the
roads and improve MOW's maintenance capacity. Important benefits not
quantified in the economic evaluation include reduced freight damage,
accidents and travel time and better access to social and medical



-32-
facilities. Except for the technical assistance, pilot rural road program
and studies for which no separate rate of return have been calculated, all
other Program components have been subject to economic analysis.
5.05      The major direct beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs
will be the owners and operators of cars, trucks and buses. Since freight
transport is essentially free of regulation, it is expected that transport
users and consumers alike would benefit from the resulting reduced
transport costs. Avoiding rapid deterioration of vehicles and the highway
network, road improvements will prolong the lives of both the vehicles and
the roads. Reduced fuel consumption should also result in savings, mostly
in foreign exchange. The Government is also a beneficiary, partly through
reduced road maintenance and partly through vehicle ownership. Because of
the nature of the benefits the target groups in terms of income strata are
very difficult to identify accurately . Low income groups in Kampala who
do not have access to their own land will benefit particularly from reduced
prices of food brought in from areas east of Kampala and transport of
Matoke (large bananas), the main staple food, in particular. Low income
groups will also benefit from a reduction in transport cost and time, and
for public passenger transport enabling them to visit their home villages
to supplement wage income by home-grown produce. All income groups benefit
from a reduction in cost of a wide variety of industrial goods through
transport cost reductions including reduction in losses due to accidents.
C. Economic Analysis
5.06      The different road sections of the Program have been individually
analyzed. For the most important, the Kampala-Jinja Road, several sections
were analyzed to obtain optimal design solutions, using the Highway Design
Model (HDM). Similar models were used for the Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru and
Mbarara-Rubaare Roads by consultants preparing the studies for these roads.
For the technical assistance, pilot rural road program and studies, data at
this stage would not permit an economic analysis.
5.07      The economic analysis of the Program is based on an assessment of
costs and expected benefits "with" and without" the proposed works. The
"without project" case assumes progressive deterioration of the road
surface and a corresponding increase in vehicle operating costs, estimated
by using the HDM model. In the 'with project" case it is assumed that the
investments will protect the roads against further deterioration and reduce
the VOC's by 37% to 62% depending on the type of vehicle, the stage of
deterioration and condition and type of road. Only savings in vehicle
operating costs are quantified for the analysis. Benefits not quantified
such as savings in delays of future reconstruction, time savings and
reductions in potential freight damage represent substantial benefits
which, if quantified, would enhance the rates of return. The economic
evaluation therefore underestimates the expected rates of return.
5.08       As indicated in Annex 10, the annual average daily traffic
(AADT) ranges froz. 154 to 2410 vehicles per day. The proportion of heavy



-33-
vehicles is high, from 202 to 562 of total traffic, indicating the
importance of commercial traffic. Traffic growth has been estimated at 4-
6Z depending on the road section (Annex 11). These relatively high growth
rates are primarily a result of high population growth (3-4Z) and expected
economic recovery.
D. Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Test
5.09      The overall economic rate of return for the Program is 382 for
all the quantitatively analyzed components, representing 95Z of total
Program cost. Various sensitivity tests have been carried out, such as a
scenario of no traffic growth, with returns ranging from 12% to 59%. For
the IDA project the rate of return is 472. An indication of typical
vehicle operating costs is included in Annex 12. The streams of costs and
benefits for the best esti4ate are included in Annex 13 and the results of
different sensitivity tests in Annex 14. The best estimate rate of returns
range from 161 to 63Z, with first year returns ranging from 11X to 61Z
based on an opportunity cost of capital of 122.
E. Risks
5.10      While the program is designed to reduce as much as possible risks
associated with implementation, the possibility nevertheless exists that
implementation could be delayed due to MOW's lack of administrative
capacity. To minimize the possible impact of this, the rehabilitation/
strengthening of the roads included in the Program will be carried out by
contractors. The main risk ia the uncertain economic conditions in the
country which may lead to a decline in the availability of local funds for
the Program.



-34-
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMEDIATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following items:
(a) fill the vacant positions of Chief Planning Engineer and
Chief Road Maintenance Engineer by not later than October
31, 1987 (Para. 2.18);
(b) Government will, not later than four months before the
beginning of each fiscal year, review with the
Association (a) its highway investment plan; (b) the
budgetary requirements and the proposed budgetary
allocation for road maintenance over the period FY1988-93;
and (c) any shortfall in the allocation of funds to be made
up in the subsequent year (Para. 2.23);
(c) the pilot rural road maintenance program to be prepared
with the assistance of the rural road maintenance engineer
will be submitted for the Association's review prior to its
implementation (Para. 3.09).
(d) the draft terms of reference for the technical assistance
staff (Para. 3.11);
(e) the draft terms of reference for the feasibility study and
detailed engineering of the Soroti-Lira Road (Para 3.13);
(f) the implementation schedule of the proposed project
(Para.4.02);
(g) consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines (Para 4.03);
(h) all project accounts including project-related statements
of expenditures and special account will be audited by the
Auditor General or other independent auditors and the
Government will submit certified copies of su'h accounts
together with the auditor's opinions and repocts to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Para. 4.08); and
(i) Progress reporting requirements and submissior. of a project
completion report in a form satisfactory to the Association
not later than six months after the closing de-e of the
Credit (Para 4.09).
6.02      Condition of Credit effectiveness will be that the Government has
opened a special account with a commercial bank (Para 4.06).



-35-
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit of SDRs 14.1 million (US$18 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
UGANDA
FOURTH HIGIWAY PROJECT
Proposed Investmante in
Transport 1986/86 - 1968/89
(USI million; 1984 prices)
Project
No.    Projict Title                                               Sub-tot l
Foreign   Local    Total by Mode
R lways:
TROI     Railway rolling stock            13.90      -      13.90
02     Pormanent way                    16.39     2.31    18.61
W4    Wagon workshop                     0.5U      -       9.60
065/0    Conteinerination                 5.02     3.14     8.16
19     Diesel locomotivo workshop        9.19    2.46    11.65
35     Supplies function                 1.25     0.92     0.27
36     Training school                   1.43     0.98     0.61    63.60
Water Trnnsport:
51     Marine Servicen                   0.66     0.40     1.06
20    Wagon f-rrio-                      9.49    09.9      9.58     1.64
Highways:
a8     Kampaele-asaka                    4.73     1.35     6.98
g9     Kampala-Jinja                     8.26     1.20     9.45
11     Malabo-Jinja                      3.39     1.21     4.61
12     Ubarara-Katunguru                 5.28     1.32     6.66
13    Mesaka-Lyantonde-Mbarara           6.90     2.20     9.19
14    Mbarara-Ntungao-Rubeare            2.26     9.5S     2.81
1S    Upgrading of road maintenance    52.78    17.64    70.42
16    Rural road mintenance units        4.40      -       4.40
22     Equator road                      2.86     1.10     a.98
26     Pakwach-Arua                      9.33      -         a.33
26     Soroti-Lira                       9.44     0.11     6.55
81     Siroko-Simu-Kapchorwa             0.41     0.02     0.43
32     Kabel_ K tuna                     1.10     0.39     1.49
33     Rehabilitation of ferries         1.67    9.42      1.99
34     Repair of bridges                 4.40     1.32     5.72   127.84
24     Kampala city street              18s.       -      18.72    18.72
Civil Aviation:
17a     Entebbe airport                   3.80     1.10     4.96
17b     Air navigation *ervices           3.47      -       3.47     8.37
TOTAL                           171.74    38.43   210.17   210.17
Sourc   Investent Plan Tor Recovery and Developmnt



- 3  -                      Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
WGANDA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECr
Action Taken/Proposed on the 1983 Transport Sector Memorandum Recomendations
Summary of Recommendations                     Acetlc  TAkea/YroposeA
i)        carry out a transport sector manpower survey        A survey has been
and propose a training program to meet longer      completed and a proposal
term needs for qualified staff to manage and        for staff training and
operate the sector's entities;                      technical assistance is
being developed.
i'.)      set up for the Ministry of Transport a              The system is being
system of data gathering and analysis to           established with
permit policy formulation and decision-making      technical assistance
in the transport sector;                           under the Third Highway
Project.
iii)      improve transport administration and policy         Not much work has
making;                                             been done yet.
iv)       organize and define more clearly the                Not yet done.
relationship between MPED, MOW, and the
MOT to improve transport planning and
coordinati- n
v)        establish a mechanism to ensure better aid          MPED organizes donor
coordination among donors to avoid                 meetings to ensure aid
duplication and concentrate efforts where it        coordination.
is most urgently needed;
vi)       provide the necessary foreign exchange and          The situation has
improve foreign exchange allocations to the         improved.
transport sector for spare parts for
essential rehabilitation of road maintenance
equipment, vehicles, and railway locomotives
and rolling stock;
vii)      improve coordination between Uganda and             Northern Corridor Transit
Kerya, particularly as it applies to rail           Agreement signed and
transport;                                          there is now an operating
agreement between Kenya
Railways and URC.
viii)     review government salaries and make necessary       Salaries have been raised
adjustments to motivate staff;                      3-4 times the earlier
level.
ix)       bring the Entebbe Airport and aeronautical          Done.
aids and communications up to ICAO standards
for safety of flight operations as soon as
possible;



Aisex 2
- 38 -                                  P jeof 2
x)        monitor closely the financial feasibility of        Master Plan for the
expanding the rail-car ferry system for Lake       railway (see (Xiv) below)
Victoria services linking Uganda and               will examine these
Tanzania, and review least cost                    issues.
alternatives for the use of the ferry-boats;
Xi)       assist the Uganda Airline Corporation with a        Task force within
view to rationalizing the airline as an            Government has already
efficient regional carrier and review its          reviewed UAC operations
best options for fleet replacement;                and fleet replacement
needs.
xii)      embark on an intensive program to train URC         Staff training and
staff; as a short term expedient to recruit        technical assistance
technical assistance to help run the railway;      proposals being developed
hased oQ the results of
the manpower survey.
ciii)     carry out a study of possible bus                   study not yet done.
alternatives to URC's suburban passenger
services; and
xiv)      establish URC as a financially                      Appropriate actions to be
autonomous agency with the necessary increase      taken wiA depend on the
in -capitalization.                                results of the URC master
plan now under
preparation.



Cgoo tlon oft  Ate  Veklle Flg&t by Tn.
Year     Heavy         Pickups       fus..       Minibuses       Care      Motorcycles
Commneial          A                                                      a           Other Including         TOTAL
Vehicles         Vans                                                 Scooters    Tractors, Plant etc.
1971       6706         4908         900           666        23,771          6161                 1227              44,610
1972       6617         52s          on            7S9        24,054          0215                 1811              46,262
1978       5976         486          915           645        21,782          6654                 1226              46,906
1974       5515         4542         962          611         26,26 25t81                           120               38,260
1076       7216         667          971           590        10,994          5182                 1836               86,1652
1970       61a5         4898         840           514        10,528          5899                 120N                4,108
1977       5751         4475         777           614        156784          4562                 1765               13,682
1076       6812         511          98a9          779        18,757          4754                 2252               85,294
1979       8216         1ass         565           5a8        11,279          4459                  1914              26,290
1966       8519         8672         on            Us6        11,644          4726                  2167              26,931
1901       t07          8669         626           0765       16,06           4217                  2174              26,068
1002       8529         8426         59S           60n         0,621          8926                  2086              24,674
1908       8209         8652         600          12560       9076            4108                  2677              25,204
1904       2956         8907         86           160"          9,778         4171                  2560              25.662
1065       2556         8758         522          1666         0,158          8965                  2446              24,196
Sourcot Ministry of Transport



- 40 -
UGANA                      Annex 4
FOURTH HIGHWA PROJBCr
Vebicle Weights and Di8ensions
Maximum Axle Weight
Single Axle                   10,000 kg
Tandem Axle                    16,000 "
Triple Axle                   24,000 -
Maximum Gross Weight
Single Unit Vehicle
Two Axles                     16,000 kg
Three Axles                  22,000 -
Vehicles with Semi-trailers:
Three Axles                  26,000 kg
Four Axles                   34,000 -
Five Axles                   40,000 -
Six Axles                    42,000 -
Vehicles with Drawbar Trailer
Four Axles                   34,000 kg
Five Axles                   40,000 -
Six Axles                    42,000 -
Max. Overall Width
All Motor Vehicles                2.5 meters
Max. Overall Length
Single Unit Vehicle              11.0 meters
Articulated Vehicle               15.0
Combination Vehicle              18.0



Bx~~    -     wmID
-* -
Admdnistration                  Covtsructlon                     Maintenano
Year             Ap|proved      Expennibtre    AArroved    | Rawdture
-Estiate                     FEtimate                         Estimate
1981/82             22,119         17,263          728,940           285,839       376,917          405,399
1982/8              28,961         16,625          7106,100          206,969       416,325          445,4R0
1983/84             52,253         32,785          102,000            95,632       795,994        1,014,271
1984/85            102,046         89,017          96,92D             52,917      1,535,993       3,092,486
1985/86            130,520           NA          2,975,000              NA       2,624,016        5,677,828
1986/87              NA              NA              NA                 NA       9,553,897             -
Sauro: MWistry f *dWor



- 42 -
Arm 6
Fourth HIly Project
Design Standards of Roads
Rmda                  Nbarr-Neaa
J:Li-a Road         Rubare Road          Isbaka-l atunguru Road
iNt-I                 Flat/                Flatf
Terrain                            R_g    Hy             Rot        Ny        R            RMy
Design Speed                       100 hk/hr 80 kim/hr  100 bO/hr 80 lo/hr  100 bki/hr  80 m/khr
Carriageay Width                     7 .        7 m       6.6 a       6.6 .     6.6 a      6.6 a
Shoulder Width (either side)         2 m        2 .       1.5 .       1.5 u     1.5 *      1.5 a
Ruling Gradient                      51         72        52          72        52         71
minimm Horizontal
Curve Radius                      650 .      445       650 a       445       650.       445 
Minim=o Sight Distance
(a) Stopping                   200 a      130 .      200 a      130 .     200.       130 a
(b) Overtaking                 450 .      350 a     450 .       350 .     450 a      350 .
Road Crossfall
(a) CaM,KLagevay               2. 5                 2.5Z                  2.52       2.52
(b)  Shoulders                 5z                   5z                    52         5S



Anne 7
Page  of 4
-43 -
FOURTR HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Asletance
1. Oblective
1.        The purpose of the Technical Assistance is to improve local
skills and to assist Government with project implementation.
II. Scoi. of Consulo-.;x Services
2.        The consultants will provide a tecbnical assistance team
consisting of a highway engineer (project coordinator) and two road design
engineers for the MOW, and a rural road maintenance engineer for the MM
for a period of 30 months each. The individuals will assist and advise MNW
and MLG in their respective fields.
1II.  IUdivldual Job Descriation
A. Highway Engineer (Project Coordlnator)
Qulifications:
3.        Should be a qualified professional civil engineer with 10-15
years of experience in highway planning, design, construction and
maintenance of bituminous paved, gravel and earth roads, including the
design and use of bituminous mixes and the testing of soils and materials;
should have experience in operational and administrative aspects of highway
construction and maintenance in a government roadsorganization. Fluency in
written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are
also required.
Duties:
4.        Will report to the Deputy Engineer-in-Chief, MOW, and will assist
and advise him in overall direction and coordination of project
implementation, including but not limited to:
Ci)   Serving as the primary point of contact for the
project with consultants, contractors and
technical assistance staff;
(ii) coordinating the work of consultants, contractors
and technical assiatance staff for the performance
of required tasks within time and cost limits;
(iii) identifying deficiencies and deviations from the
project implementation schedule, initiating
actions to correct them and monitoring execution
of such actions;



A4ne 7
- 44 -                 Page 2 of 4
(iv)  identifying any potential areas of exposure in
existing or potential contracts and initiating
action to eliminate su,.h exposure;
(v)   meeting reporting and procedural requirements of
the financing agencies participating in the
Program/project;
(vi)  monitoring payments to consultants, contractors
and technical assistance staff; and
(vii) preparing a project completion report at the close
of the project.
B. Road Deai=n ngineers(2)
Qualifications:
5.        Should be qualified professional civil engineers with 10-15 years
of experience in highway planning, design, construction and maintenance of
bituminous paved, gravel and earth roads, including the design and use of
bituminous mixes and the testing of soils and materials; should have
experience in operational and administrative aspects of highway
construction and maintenance in government roads organization. Fluency in
written and spoken English and the ability t.. communicate ideas easily are
also required.
ities:                                                                                          I
6.        Will report to the Deputy Engineer-in-Chief and will assist and
advise him on all aspects of highway design and documentation including hut
not limited to:
(i)   reviewing and updating existing design standards
and specifications; and assistance in site
investigations and quality control;
(ii)  assistance in reviewing highway feasibility and
detailed engineering studies;
(iii) reviewing and updating existing data on highway
traffic counts, axle loads, origin and destination
survey and traffic forecasts;
(vi)  reviewing and evaluating highway inventories,
records and other data; and
(v)   training of local engineers.
C. Rural RoAd Mainteance Enineer
Qualifications:
7.        Should be a qualified professional engineer with 10-15 years
experience in the planning, design, and construction of rural roads,
including the testing of soils and



Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
materials; should have experience in operational and administrative aspects
of rural road maintenance in a government roads organization and should
have suitable experience in equipment usage and control. Fluency in
written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are
also required.
Duties:
8.        Will report to MIG and will assist in the preparation and
implementation of a 'Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program' in an
appropriate area to be selected, including but not limited to:
(i)   establishing a system for preparing inventories of
road networks maintained by district councils,
providing information in broad terms on geometric
design standards, adequacy of drainage, soil
conditions and topography;
(ii)  reviewing and developing a road maintenance set up
including planning, budgeting and cost accounting
procedures;
(iii) determining suitable methods of road maintenance
in terms of labor and equipment combinations;
(iv)  reviewing and updating of existing inventories of
road maintenance equipment and spare parts;
(v)   determining a minimum requirement for road
maintenance equipment and establishing preventive
maintenance parts and components requirements;
(vi)  setting up a preventive maintenance schedule for
road maintenance equipment repair and overhaul
procedures;
(vii) setting up small workshops and road camps at
selected locations;
(viii) assistance in procuring road maintenance and
workshop equipment and tools, and inspecting goods
upon delivery; and
(ix)  carrying out on-the-job training of works foremen,
mechanics, vehicle and plant operators.
9.        He will prepare and submit to MLG:
(i)   Inception Report:  (within one month of starting
work) summarizing initial findings and giving
broad proposals for setting up the program;



Annez 7
- 46 -                P  e 4 of 4
(ii) Full Report: (within four months of starting
work) containing findings and recommendations for
setting up the program, together with cost
estimates broken down into foreign and local
Costs.
IV. Data, Local Services and Facilities to be provided  qb Gon vernet
10.        The Government shall provide the technical assistance team with
all available information, studies and reports required for their services,
and will as3sign suitable counterparts to work with them. It shall also
provide them necessary office space, furniture, equipment.and office
supplies, as well as secretarial and clerical services.
V. Reports
11.        The consultants shall prepare and subAit quarterly progress
reports (3 copies each to Government and the International Development
Association) summarizing accomplishments during the reporting period and
total progress since the start of the work identifying any problem.
encountered in the work with recommendations for corrective action.



- 47 -                AnusiS
Page I of 7
vOn  IGM   PMOMcr
Fesdibility Study and Detailed lrnineering of Soroti-Lira Road
Draft Term of Reference
l.   OBJEcTIVS
II.  scaFE or  COUJLTIG SOFVSCES
A. Feasibility Study
B. Detailed Egnineering
III. DATA. LOCAL SERVCES AND FAIIISTo BE PROVIDE  BY THE W
A. Data
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies and Counterparts
C. Facilities and Supporting Staff
IV.  TXn  SCQE FOIL          LT   SERVICES AND REPORTS



- 48 -          ~~Annex S
Page 2 of 7
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The purpose of the studies is to determine the technical and
economic feasibility of upgrading the existing road between Soroti and Lira
(approximately 120km), and to undertake detailed engineering depending on
the results of the feasibility study.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
2.        The consultants shall perform all engineering work, economic
studies, field investigations and related work, as required to attain the
objectives in Section I hereof.
3.        The Government will provide the consultants with the data and
services outlined in Section III hereof. The consultants shall be solely
responsible, however, for the analysis and interpretation of all data
received and for the conclusions and recommendations in their report.
A. Feasibillty Study
Selection of Algment and Design Standards
4.        The consultants shall consider alternative design standards and
alignments including, if desirable, relocation of sections of the routes.
as a 'asis for the economic evaluation, and shall prepare financial and
economic cost estimates for the proposed alternatives. In selecting route
and standards the consultants may base their cost estimates for road
sections on typical construction costs per km.
5.        The cost estimates shall be broken down into foreign and local
cost components and all taxes and duties shall be identified separately.
The foreign cost component shall include such items as depreciation of
imported plant and equipment, imported materials and supplies, the foreign
component of wages and overheads, profits of foreign firms, locally
procured goods of foreign manufacture, and the principal foreign cost
elements of locally produced goods and materials incorporated in the works.



_ 49 -                Annez 8
Page 3 of 7
6.        The consultants' Feasibility Report on the Soroti-Lira Road shall
include plans, typical cross-sections, and preliminary engineering designs
for the proposed construction, at appropriate scales.
Economic Analyses
7.        The economic analyses of alternative alignuents and design
standards for the road shall include estimates of:
(i)   the types and volumes of forecast traffic which
will form the basis for the selection of
appropriate design standards and the estimation of
potential savings in vehicle operating costs. The
consultants shall analyze all existing statistical
data on traffic and if they find that additional
traffic counts or origin and destination data are
required, they shall undertake necessary field
studies with the assistance of the Government.
The forecasts shall take into account the effects
of existing and potential traffic-generating
activity and the possibilities of traffic
diversion to and from competing modes;
(ii)      vehicle operating costs for the types and sizes of
vehicles forecast under (i) above for both the
existing and proposed alignments and standards.
These estimates, in conjunction with the forecasts
of traffic with and without the proposed
construction, shall form the basis for estimating
potential vehicle operating costs and time
savings;
viii)     road maintenance costs for both existing and
proposed alternatives, having regard to the
respective traffic forecasts under (i) above. The
estimates shall be used to assess the net savings
or increases in total maintenance costs likely to
result from the proposed improvements; and
(iv)      the net benefits of the proposed improvements
assessed under (i) to (iii) above. These shall be
compared with the costs determined in para 4. For
each alternative, the net present value,
discounted at 12Z, the internal rate of return,



-50-                    Ah 8S
?ta 4 of 7
and the first year benefit sball be calculated.
On the basis of these calculations, the optima
alignment, design standards, starting date and
staging schedule shall be determined.
B. D     led Eaxluseriug
8.        Depending on the results of the feasibility study, the
consultants shall undertake detailed engineering of the road, as outlined
below, subject to prior approval of the Government.
9.        The consultant services in this regard shal' include, but not be
limited to:
(i)   detailed engineering design, preparation of
estimate of quantities, plans, drawings and
bidding documents for the project suitable for
international competitive bidding;
iii)  preparation of cost estimates of the proposed work
with a break-down into foreign and local currency
costs; and
(iii) assistance in the prequalification of contracting
firms and in the analysis and evaluation of bids,
if requested by Government.
10.       The scope of the engineering investigations, design and related
work shall include, but not limited to:
(a)   Detailed Eugiu<eriug
Engineering work will be carried out as necessary
to complete the detailed engineering and
preparation of bidding documents and will include
necessary surveys; location and adequate marking
of center line, levelling of profile and cross
sections; soils and materials survey; the design
of sub-base, base and wearing course thicknesses
and the location and testing of sources of gravel
and rock required for construction. Bidding
Documents suitable for international competitive
bidding will be prepared including conditions of
contract, specifications, drawings (to an
appropriate scale), bills of quantities and forms
for bid and performance bonds/bank guarantee;
(b)   Cost Est1autea.
Estimates for the cost of construction will be
prepared based on reliable and full engineering
information and detailed bills of quantities. The



Annex a
- 51 -                 Page 5 of 7
foreign exchange and local currency costs will be
computed in detail for each item in the bill of
quantities. The foreign exchange component of
cost shall include such items as depreciation of
imported plant and equipment, imported materials
and supplies, locally procured goods of foreign
manufacture, wages of foreign personnel, foreign
component of wages and overheads, profits of
foreign firms, and also the principal foreign cost
elements of locally produced goods and materials
incorporated in the works. The local cost
component shall identify all local costs; tax and
duty elements shall be identified separately;
(c)   frequaLification of Bidders
The consultants shall:
(i)     prepare all necessary documents for the
prequalificktion of contractors, including
abbreviated specifications of the work to
be performed, forms, invitations to
prequalify, draft advertisements, etc.;
and
(ii)    review and evaluate proposals for
prequalification and prepare a list of
qualified firms which should be permitted
to bid.
HIL. DATA, LOCAL SEIVICKS AND          ETO    PIOWII   By TH
A. Data
11.       The Government shall provide the consultants with:
(i)   appropriate highway traffic counts and origin and
destination surveys;
(ii) assistance in undertaking additional highway
traffic counts;
(iii) cost of recent road construction and maintenance
for various types of roads; and
(iv) topographical, meteorological and geological maps
of area, as available.
S.  Cooper-ation of Gornment Agencies and CR Iterpart
12.       The Government will provide for the cooperation of Government
Ministries, departments and other agencies as required for carrying out the



- 52 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 7
work, liaison as necessary for this purpose, and will give the Consultants
full access to all information required for the completion of the studies.
13.       The Government will assign suitable counterparts to work with the
key personnel of the consultants.
C.  Facilities and Supporting Staff
14.       The consultants will make their own arrangements for all
necessary office and living accommodation, local transportation, supplies,
etc., in connection with the services to be provided.
IV. TDIE SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTING SRVICES AND REPORTS
15.       The feasibility study is expected to require 6 months; the
detailed engineering, 5 months. The consultants shall prepare and submit
the following reports (all in English) to the Government:
(a)   Inception Report
An inception report (5 copies within I month of
starting date) summarising initial findings of the
consultants and giving proposals for the conduct
of the study;
(b)   Progress Reports
(3 copies at bi-monthly intervals) summarizing
progress made during the reporting period and
total progress since the start of the work and
tentatively snummarizing the findings and
recommendations of the consultants and identifying
any major delays or problems encountered in the
work with recommendations for corrective action.
(c)   Feasibility Study
{i)     Draft Final Report  (5 copies within 5
months of starting date of the study)
summarizing all work performed and the
findings and recommendations of the
consultants. This report will be
presented including maps, plans and
diagrams to be included in the Final
Report;
(ii)    Eia  Reprt  (number of copies to be
decided by the Government, within 30 days
ofreceipt of the Government's comments on
the Draft Final Report) incorporating all
revisions deemed appropriate by the



- 53 -
Annex 8
Page 7 of 7
consultants after receipt of comments on
the Draft Final Report of the study from
the Government;
(d)   Detailed Engineering
(i)     Draft Final Report (5 copies within 4
month of starting data of the work)
consisting of roadway plan and profile
drawings, drawings of typical roadway
sections, drainage plans, design of
drainage and other structures,
specifications, bills of quantities,
bidding documents and estimates of
construction costs with an appropriate
breakdown into foreign and local costs;
and
*ii)    Final Report  (number of copies to be
decided by the Government, within 30 days
of receipt of the Government's comments on
the Draft Final Report) complete with
plans and documents incorporating all
revisions considered appropriate by the
consultants after receipt of comments from
the Government on the Draft Final Report.
16.       Finally, 3 copies of each of the reports outlined in Para. 15
shall be submitted to the International Development Association.



- 54 -
hAnez 9
Page I of 3
UGANDA
POURTE NIGMVAY PROJECr
PROGRESS REPORTDIG RIlEMENTS
1.        Progress Reports shall be submitted to the Association quarterly
(in triplicate) no later than one calendar month after the end of the
quarter. The first report should cover the period ending December 1987.
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
(i)  General Information:  (This should refer to Project Monitoring
Indices shown in the Attachment)
(a) the physical progress accompl'.shed during the reporting
period;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project
implementation schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect
on the imple"rntation schedule and the steps planned or
taken to overcoae the difficulties and avoid delays;
(d)  e-pected changes in the. completion dates of the project;
(e) key personnel char.ges in the staffs of the MOW/MLG,
consultants or contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the project cost; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of the project components.
(ii)  A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component.
(iii)  A financial statement set out in tabular form which shows for
each of the project components:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;
(c) actual expenditure;



- 55 -
hin 9
PFge 2 of 3
(d)  projected expenditure; and
(e) actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(iv) The s:atus of action on each of the covenants of the Credit
Agreement.



- 56 -                                            A9
P   3 of 3
PAD= N :UNM DO=
of (doe)
qbrmetLve
btI~  k.ml     tdi                 Act-.
2.o  Dem=s fw  Flo
1. Premiunaries to uxbilizatioo (miumtl)
2. Bow (kmn)
3. Asphaltic conrete imar1g azse (mn)
4. Suface dressing (km)
5. SouUers and roadside dral  (km)
6. AIfuary iadrs (Imu)
7. P2mts to Contrctoa
1I.   ilot Rural cd     aan  Pngram
1. Pr1prthm of Progrm
2.   GaturtLon of od  cms (Nb.)
3. Cantructim of woEbops (Nb.)
4. Paymis tos
M. TedbdLal
1.  Plunaries to start (wats)
2. Tadcal asitm  (mmvoh)
3. Payrats to consultants
VI.  Leasibility and Detailed ftneigStxUdi
1.  rlimIares to Start (nxths)
2* Inception.Report (date)
3. Draft Flml Report (date)
4. Thial Report (date)
5. Paymnwts to comiltants



- 57 -
Annex 10
UGANDA
FOURTH HIGHMWA PROJECT
Traffic on Program Roads. 1983
Average Daily Traffic tvehiclesiday)
Road Section         Cars    Pickups  Buses      Trucks      Heavy vehicles   TOTAL
Station                              with
Wagons          Medium Heavy       Trailers
Kampala-Jinia
KYAZBOGO             1,010     899      90      251    25        133           2,408
MUKONO                 472     470      54      208     9        146           1,359
Mbarara-Ishaka-Katun'turu
MEARAURA (km. 2.3)     111      91      54       97     5         13             371
ISHAKA                 131     107     46       126     7         13            430
KATUNGURU               46     =38      10       44     2         14             154
Mbarara-Rubaare
HB&RARA                278     197      33      119    25         58             710
NTUNGAMO                53      28     20        17    13         52             183
RUBAARE                 56      26      11       29    17         55             194
Source: Consultants' estimates



- 58 -
Annex 11
UGANDA
FOURTH H3GHMAY PROJC
Future Road Traffic. 1986-2005
Average Daily Traffic (yehiclesiday)
1982         1983        1986         1990         2005
-     Actual ------    Estimate      ------Forecast-----
Kampala-Jinia Road
KYAMBOGO     1,633           2,408       2,868       3,621        8,678
MUKONO        -              1,359       1,619        2,044       4,898
Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunmuru Road
MBARARA        207             371         488          632       1,599
ISHAKA         -               430         546         671        1,407
KATUNGURU      -               154         195         239          464
Mbarara-Rubaare Road
ZMARARA        -               710         765        1,002       2,765
NTUNGAMO       234             183         203          266         734
RUBAARE        -               194         215         282          778
Source: Consultants' estimates



- 59 -
^UEC 12
FOUREN RIGRWA PROJECT
Tjpicl Vebicle Operating Costs
(US cents per Vehicle km.)
Good Road            Poor Road
Vehicle Category                 Condition             CoLdition
Passenger Cars                      20                     30
Pickups/Vans                        21                    34
Medium Trucks                       38                     52
Heavy Trucks                        69                    95
Heavy Trucks with Trailers          85                    118
Buses                               43                    60
Source: Consultants' and mission estimates.



- 60 -
Annex 13
UGANDA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Costs and Benefits for Road Rehabilitation
(US$0OOo)
1&nipa1galJ{ni a        Mbarara-   Ishaka-      Mbarara-
Year_    Km 0-24   Km 24-48   Km 48-72   Ishakaa   Katunguru   Rubaare           Total
1987                  -2525       -2714                                          -5239
1988      -1378       -2946       -3166      -1745       -1805       -786       -13826
1989      -1723       -2105       -2261      -2183       -2257       -3483      -14012
1990      -2067        1054        2917      -2619       -2708       -4180       -7603
1991       4356        2207        4449       1211         -68        1182       13337
1992       5030        2341        4720       1792         457        2108       16448
1993       6067        2484        5007       2825        1441        3746       21570
1994       6436        2634        5311       2990        1525        4008       22904
1995       7536        3085        6220       3170        1617        4288       25916
1996       7246        2967        5980       3360        1714        4588       25855
1997       7687        3147        6344       3560        1816        4909       27463
1998       8154        3338        6730       3775        1925        5253       29175
1999       8649        3541        7137       4005        2043        5620       30995
2000      10321        4225        8518        4245       2165        6013       35487
2001       9736        3986        8034        4505       2298        6434       34993
2002      10310        4221        8509       4780        2438        6884       37142
2003      10957        4486        9042       5075        2588        7366       39514
2004      11627        4760        9595       5380        2744        7882       41988
2005       1595        1967        2113       5703        2909        8434       22721
ERR        63Z         36%         58%         301        16%         26%         38%
Source: Consultants & mission estimates.



- 61 -
ANNEX 14
UGANDA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
No Growth
Road          Best       Benefits        for       Costs      Benefits -10%         First
Sections      Estimate       -20%      Benefits       +10%       Costs +10%        Year Returns
Kampala-Jinia
Km  0-24         63Z          54Z           59Z        59%            55%               612
Km 24-48         36Z          30%           26%        33%            31%                18%
Km 48-72         58%          49%           50Z        54%            50%               34%
Mbarara-Ishaka   30%          25%           26%        29%            27%                22%
Ishaka-Katungiuru 16%         12%           12%        14%            13%               11%
Mbarara-Rubaare  26%          222           20%        24Z            22%                18%
Total Program    38%          32%           34%        35Z            32Z               28%
IDA Project      47%          39%          44%         45%            42%               37%
Source:  Mission estimates



- 62 -                        Annex 1S
Related Dbocumuts and Data Available in Project nile
I.        Kampala - Jinja Road (Consultants Renardet S.A. Consulting
Engineers)
(i)     Feasibility Study, Final Report, September 1984
(ii)    Detailed Engineering Design, Volume 1, Feburary 1985
(iii)   Detailed Engineering Design, Volume 2, general and
special specifications, February 1985
(iv)    Detailed Engineering Design, Volume 3,  Section VII,
Bill of Quantities, February 1985
(v)     Detailed Engineering Design, Volume 4, Drawings, Sections
I, II and III, February 1985
Cvi)    Detailed Engineering Design, Volume 5, Material Resources
Report, February 1985
(vii)   Detailed Engineering Design, Volume 6, Price Analyses,
February 1985
II.       Mbarara-Ishaka-Katunguru Road (Consultants Carl Bro International
A/S).
Ci)    Feasibility Study, Final Report, May 1985
(ii)    Feasibility Study, Final Report, Appendix Volume, May
1985
(iii)   Draft Final Engineering Report, May 1985
III.      Mbarara-Ntungamo-Rubaare Road (Consultants Schroder-Planung)
Ci)    Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering, November
1984
(ii)    Engineering Report, Volume 1, November 1984
(iii)   Book of Drawings, Volume 2, November 1984
(iv)    Engineering Report, Volume 3,November 1984
(v)     Conditions of Contract and Bill of Quantities, Volume 4,
November 1984
(vi)    Engineering Report, Volume 6, November 1984



Chart I
f        e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



Usanda
Fourth Highway Project
Project !uplauentatioa Schedule
B oard Rahabeltation 
Preparation of Bidding
Documents
Prequalification of
Contractors---
Bidding
lid Evaluation to
Contract Award
Execution *f Work......
2. Co nstruction supervision
3. Technial Assistance to NOW
Selection of   niult ants
Execution
4. Pilot Rural Roads
Waint~eiace ProgrTaf
S. Studies                                                                                                                                                        '
Selection o2 consultants
Execution



NOTES



mwP SECTI



o                                                       s
UGANDA 
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
4-    HIGHWAY NETWORK 
Road rehabilitation and strengthening program
Classilied roads
Primaory btumen                                J         N
Primary gravel                      "    j
Secondary bitumen
Secondory gravel                       .rf
Tertiary b-tumen                                            6
,   Tertiary gravel
Other roads                            r
.     . Railroads
Rivenrs~n
*   Notional capital                     C.  fARU         -_     pjf
JINJAS   Distrct copitals and name               \* o1
_   - District bondaries
.     M.O.W  d.strict boundaries     t        j    \
.... . Areo  boundaries                       / (               )
__  - -Internarional boundo,ies
1/ 1cw
20                                                       /           ./
Z A I RE                                           7  B/ho:
8  .-                  *vHOIAU 
/  <,   /  ,,   p     <                            , INrXq/; o/ 
reNkwoko       le 
o~~ ~ ~                   ~~~ <         e.<                     /~ 4 \
) )FORT .\    r    W\                                MUBEP
/u   ,' S                                      IN&eigora
N4
I S ._u S                               -\   : taldt  F--
1-4  sk~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~i RARA
0/                             AESER                                ye. .f -  RAKAId
-   r 6UKUNGIRI .~        /                          > %        :4 
d./           6C        . R wA N  A
(t  6ffi_Pr- ;w!  3sr   116z.   sj                           67~~~~~~~-   4



IBRD 19263
5  Ul D A N                                                               j 
-,am\                                 l/       /       - -         -                                                 C.-'   < ,,r^
'  '-7 0  x                e                          -- S               7   X  ~~~~~~~~~~K E N Y A
(.  ARUA    -      _''k    Atc.0,    /a                                                                       KOTIDOJ                  
e l  . av  ;  /     ~~~~~~ )       W I                       r--t  nSs                    /    |    t~~J lk
.}   I   /    x  APAC0       _      . \           Q     u                      / 4              1  0       9 \ROTI  7'umat
, { \ xrx  gNomoseeell /lW r_->jiNj asabf                                                                               KitoleB
,- vo t'--; [U~~~~~WERO \ t.0 o.  '  
-av  AE '\-t-?j \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                            R
i   g         |mi                                                                               ___,_ 4B.^                                     .?
it    . RAK0  A  -         ,,                  ~~~~~~~~DetW of Kornpa6 Armo                                     C,s_ 
%  r   ft-->  WOf. t  \ !t2p.'AIIS~~~~~~~~~~R U T                  )                           e t o
~~~~T  A   N    Z -A    N    I A                                            .                                            _,"UU"V'A'ZARIA~
t   m                     t  99    1    1    g        n             |    t^ Z ^ E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Onm



