OFICAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1803 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1803 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      K-2,aC  j ;?-          , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;
(c) "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government;
and
(d) "Uganda Shilling" and "U Sh" mean the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 1997, and ending
February 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOW and MLG with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement,
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take such measures as shall
be necessary to ensure that adequate budgetary allocations are


﻿-4-
made for the maintenance of the road network administered by MOW
in its fiscal years 1988-93. To this end, the Borrower and the
Association shall, not later than four months prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year, review:
(a) the highway investment plan; and
(b) (i) the adequacy of the budgetary allocation for road
maintenance proposed to be made by the Borrower for such fiscal
year; (ii) the implementation of the budgetary allocation made in
the preceding fiscal year and determine the extent and cause of
shortfall, if any, between funds allocated and actually made
available; and (iii) agree on the supplemental budgetary
allocation needed to cover said shortfall.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take such measures as shall
be necessary to fill the vacant positions of Chief Planning
Engineer, and Chief Road Maintenance Engineer in MOW no later than
October 31, 1987.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts, and the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has opened the
Special Account pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINSEC                          61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By I15 Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) under Part A          9,800,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures
(b) under Part B            300,000        80%
of the Project
(2) Road maintenance             300,000        100% of foreign
equipment and                              expenditures
tools                                      and 80% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'               2,700,000        100% of foreign
services                                   expenditures
(4) Unallocated                1,000,000
TOTAL                 14,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) protect capital
investment in, and increase the service life of, essential roads
serving both local traffic and transit traffic to other land-
locked countries; (b) improve maintenance planning and operation
of rural roads serving agricultural areas; and (c)  .rengthen the
Borrower's institutions responsible for Project imple;, .tation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Highway Rehabilitation and Strengthening
1.   Rehabilitation and strengthening of:
(a) The Km 0-24 segment of Kampala-Jinja Road; and
(b) Mbarara-Ishaka Road.
2.   Provision of consultants' services for supervision of works
ur-er Part A.l.
Part B:   Rural Roads Maintenance
Preparation and carrying out of a pilot rural road
maintenance program.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to MOW for Project
coordination and training.
Part D:   Studies
Carrying out a feasibility study and detailed engineering of
Soroti-Lira Road.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Setion I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
con,istent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"GiLidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, required under Part B of the Project, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items of equipment and tools estimated to
cost less than $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid, proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for each such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of each such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3


﻿- 11 -
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for each such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to para-
graph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01. (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants, including those referred to
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected, in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association,
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency",
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project
through MOW, and Part B of the Project through MLG.
2.   The Borrower shall, with effect from the quarter ending
December 31, 1987, submit to the Association, no later than one
month after the end of each quarter, quarterly progress reports in
such form as the Association shall reasonably request, which shall
include:
(a) general information related to:
(i)    physical progress accomplished during the
reporting period;
(ii)     actual or expected deviations from the Project
implementation schedule;
(iii)     actual or expected difficulties or delays, and
their effect on the implementation schedule, and
the steps planned or taken to overcome the
difficulties and avoid delays;
(iv)    expected changes in the completion dates of the
Project;
(v)    key personnel changes in the staffs of MOW, MLG,
consultants or contractors;
(iv)    matters which may affect Project cost; and
(vii)    any development activity likely to affect the
economic viability of Project components.
(b) a bar-type progress chart, based on the Project
implementation schedule, showing the progress in each Project
component;
(c) a financial statement set out in tabular form, which
shows for each of the Project components:
(i)    original estimated cost;
(ii)    revised cost, if appropriate;


﻿- 13 -
(iii)    actual expenditures;
(iv)    projected expenditures; and
(v)    actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals from
the Credit Account; and
(d) the status of action on each of the covenants of this
Agreement.
Part B of the Project
3.   In order to carry out Part B of the Project, MLG shall, with
the assistance of a rural road maintenance engineer to be employed
for a period of 30 months, prepare a rural road maintenance
program to be reviewed with the Association prior to its
implementation.
Part C of the Project
4.   In order to assist it in the carrying out of Part C of the
Project, MOW shall employ, for periods of 30 months each, a
highway engineer, as Project coordinator, and two road design
engineers.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible


﻿- 15 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence


﻿- 16 -
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


