                                            Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                  ReportNo: T7695-BD


                                      TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                ONA

                                      PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 10.5MILLION
                               (USS16 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                               TO THE

                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OFBANGLADESH

                                               FORAN

        AVIANINFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSAND RESPONSEPROJECT

                                            UNDERTHE

    GLOBAL PROGRAMFORAVIAN INFLUENZA AND HUMANPANDEMIC
                             PREPAREDNESSAND RESPONSE




                                            June 11,2007




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not 0th

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                               (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2007)
                                CurrencyUnit = BangladeshiTaka
                                          US$1 = Tk69.225
                                        SDR 1 = US$1.52493


                                              FISCALYEAR

                                             July 1-June 30


                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank                          FMR        FinancialMonitoring Report
ADP     Annual Development Plan                        FDIL       FieldDiseaseInvestigationlaboratory
AHITF   Avian Human InfluenzaTrust Fund                GAR        GrossAttack Rate
AI      Avian Influenza                                GDP        GrossDomesticProduct
AIPRP   Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponse         GIS        GeographicInformation System
        Project                                        GLP        GoodLaboratoryPractice
APL     AdaptableProgramLoan                           GPN        GeneralProcurementNotice
ARCS    Audit ReportCompliance System                  GOB        Governmentof Bangladesh
BLRI    BangladeshLivestockResearchInstitute           GOJ        Governmentof Japan
BRAC    BangladeshRuralAdvancement Committee           GPAI       Global Programfor Avian InfluenzaandHuman
        (an NGO)                                                  PandemicPreparednessandResponse
BSL3    Bio-safetylevel 3                              GPS        GeographicPositioningSystem
CAS     CountryAssistance Strategy                     HPAI       Highly PathogenicAvian Influenza
C&AG    Comptroller andAuditor General(GOB)            H5N1       Influenzavirus H5Nl strain
CDC     Center for DiseaseControl(USA)                 HNPSP      Health,Nutrition andPopulationSector Program
CDIL    CentralDiseaseInvestigationLaboratory          IBRD       InternationalBank for Reconstruction&
CDOP    CommunicableDiseaseOperational Plan                       Development(World Bank Group)
        (HNPSP)                                        ICB        InternationalCompetitiveBidding
CGP     CompetitiveGrantsProgram                       ICDDR,B    InternationalCenter for DiarrhoealDisease
CIDA    CanadianInternationalDevelopmentAgency                    Research, Bangladesh
CMSD    CentralMedical StoresDepot                     IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association(World
CPAR    CountryProcurementAssessment Report                       Bank Group)
CPTU    CentralProcurementTechnicalUnit (GOB)          IFC        InternationalFinanceCorporation(World Bank
DA      DesignatedAccount                                         Group)
Danida  DanishInternationalDevelopmentAgency           IEDCR      Instituteof Epidemiology,DiseaseControl&
DFID    Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment                    Research
DGHS    DirectorateGeneralof HealthServices            IHR        InternationalHealthRegulations
DIVA    Differentiating Infectedfrom Vaccinated        ILI        Influenza-likeIllness
        Animals                                        IMED       ImplementationMonitoring andEvaluation
DLS     Departmentof LivestockServices                            Division (GOB)
DOC     day old chick                                  JICA       Japanese InternationalCooperationAgency
ECTAD   EmergencyCentre for TransboundaryAnimal        M&E        Monitoring & Evaluation
        Diseases, FA0                                  MIS        ManagementInformation System
EMP     EnvironmentalManagementPlan                    MOEF       Ministry of Environment& Forest
EOP     Endof the Project                              MOFL       MinistryofFisheries& Livestock
ESSMF   Environmentaland Social Safeguards             MOHFW      Ministry of Health& FamilyWelfare
        ManagementFramework                            MOI       Ministryof Information
FA0     Food& Agriculture Organisationof the UN        MOU       Memorandumof Understanding
FM      FinancialManagement                            MTR       Mid-termreview
FMD     Foot& MouthDisease                             NAC       NationalAdvisory Committee(GOB)

                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


     NAIP        National Avian InfluenzaandHumanPandemic      RFP        Request for Proposals
                 InfluenzaPreparednessandResponsePlan          RRT        RapidResponseTeam
                 (GOB)                                         RT-PCR     Real Time PolymeraseChainReaction
     NCB         National CompetitiveBidding                   SARS       SevereAcute RespiratorySyndrome
     NCSAP       National CommunicationStrategyandAction       SAARC      SouthAsianAssociationfor Regional
                 Plan(GOB)                                                Cooperation
     NGO         Non-GovernmentOrganisation                    SEDF       SouthAsia EnterpriseDevelopmentFacility
     NMTF        National Multi-SectoralTask Force (GOB)                  (IFC)
     NPV         Net Present Value                             SOE        StatementofExpenditure
     NRL         NationalReferenceLaboratory                   SOP        StandardOperatingProcedures
     OIE         World Organisationfor Animal Health           TAD        TransbounderyAnimal Disease
     PCT         ProcurementCore Team                          TCEO       TechnicalCooperationfor Emergency
     PCU         ProjectCoordinationUnit                                  Operations
     PD          ProjectDirector                               UN         UnitedNations
     PFM         PublicFinancialManagement                     UNDB       UnitedNationsDevelopment Business
     PIP         ProjectImplementationPlan                     UNDP       UnitedNationsDevelopment Programme
     PPE         PersonalProtectiveEquipment                   UNICEF     UnitedNationsInternationalChildrens
     PRRP        PublicProcurementReformProject(GOB)                      EducationFund
     PSC         ProjectSteeringCommittee                      USAID      United StatesAgency for International
     PWD         PublicWorksDepartment                                    Development
     PVS         Performance,Vision and Strategy(OIE)          WHO        World HealthOrganization
     RAP         RegionalOffice for Asia andPacific, FA0




                Vice President                          : Praful C.Pate1
                Country Director                        : Xianzhu
                Sector Directors                        : Constance A. BernardJulian F. Schweitzer
                Sector Managers                         : GajanandPathmanathadhabela Abreu
                Task Team Leaders                       : Mohinder S. MudaharDineshM.Nair




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                          1

ii

                                         BANGLADESH
         AVIAN INFLUENZAPREPAREDNESSAND RESPONSE PROJECT

                                          CONTENTS


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                              4
      1. Country and Sector Issues                                             4
      2. Rationale for Bank Involvement                                        6

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                         7
      1. The Plan, the Program and the Project                                 7
      2. Financing Arrangements                                                8
      3. Project DesignPrinciples                                              9
      4. Project Development Objective and Key Indicators                      9
      5. Project Components                                                    9
      6. Avian InfluenzaComponent o f HNPSP                                   13

C. IMPLEMENTATION                                                             15
      1. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                        15
      2. Monitoring and Evaluation o f Outcomes/Results                       16
      3, Sustainability, Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects    16
      4. Credit Conditions and Covenants                                      19

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY                                                          20
      1, Economic and Financial Analyses                                      20
      2. Technical                                                            21
      3. Fiduciary                                                            22
      4. Social                                                               24
      5. Environmental                                                        24
      6. SafeguardPolicies                                                    25
      7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness                                      26

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                                        27
Annex 2: ResultsFramework and Monitoring                                      36
Annex 3: Detailed Project Description                                         49
Annex 4: Project Coordination and Implementation Arrangements                 73
Annex 5: Project Costs and Financing                                          81
Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements                                             86
Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                    112
Annex 8: Environmental and Social Safeguards                                  124
Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalyses                                       127
Annex 10: Terms o f Reference for Technical Assistance                        133
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                                 147
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                                        148
Annex 13: Statement o fLoans and Credits                                      149
Annex 14: Country at a Glance                                                 151

MAPS:IBRD35246 and IBRD35247




                                                 iii

iv

                                  BANGLADESH

         AVIANINFLUENZAPREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE PROJECT

                               TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                   SOUTH ASIA

                                      SASSD

Date: June 11,2007                            Team Leader: Mohinder S. Mudahar
Country Director: Xian Zhu                    Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
Sector ManagerIDirector:                      forestry sector (50%); Health (50%)
GajanandPathmanathadConstanceA. Bernard Themes: Naturaldisaster management(P);
                                              Other communicable diseases (P); Rural
                                              policies andinstitutions (S)
Project ID: P102305                           Environmental screening category: B
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery
Loan

                                  Project Einancing Data               t *
[ ] Loan    [X I Credit  [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others: IDA
Total Bank financing (uS$m.): 16.00




(AHITF)
Total:                                         13.00             8.00             21.oo
Note: Estimatedamount ofUS$2.999 m from AHITF is rounded to US$3.00 m. AHITF grant i s
expectedto beprovided intwo tranches. The first tranche is expectedto be for US$2.00 m.
Borrower: People'sRepublic o fBangladesh
Responsible Agency:
DepartmentofLivestock Services(DLS)underthe
MinistryofFisheries and Livestock (MOFL)
Building 6, Room 509, BangladeshSecretariat
Dhaka- 1000Bangladesh
Tel: 716-4700 Fax: 716-1117
fishlivsec@,moestab.gov.bd

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant
 respects?                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?        [XIYes [ ] No
 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for
 implementation?                                                                   [XIYes [ ] N o


Project development objective:
The overall objective o f the Project i s to minimize the threat posed by highly pathogenic avian
influenza (HPAI) to humans in Bangladesh by controlling such infections in domestic poultry,
and preparing for, controlling, and responding to possible human infections, especially an
influenza epidemic and related emergencies. Though the objective is specific to HPAI, the
interventions are expected to contribute to the control o f other zoonotic diseases and other types
o f infectious diseases, interms o fbuildingoverall response capacity inthe country.
Project description:
The proposed Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (AIPRP) has three
components: (i)    animal health, (ii) awareness and information, and (iii)
                                     public                                        implementation
support and monitoring & evaluation.

Animal Health Component: This component concentrates on enhancing prevention and
preparedness, strengthening disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity, strengthening control
programs, improving bio-security, providing support for surveillance o f migratory birds and
establishing a contingency fund. The contingency fund would also consist o f a compensation
program inorder to compensate the affected farmers for culled birds.

Public Awareness and Information Component: This component i s designed to safeguard
humanhealth, inparticular for extension staff, animal health workers, poultry producers, poultry
traders, poultry processors and other stakeholders dealing with poultry, by improving public
awareness andinformation about the HPAI. Communication i s extremely important to minimize
negative consequences o fHPAIon poultry production, consumption andhumanhealth and has to
be well adapted to conditions in Bangladesh. The project would finance capacity building, and
information and communication services,            including advocacy and collaboration with
stakeholders; production and dissemination o f communication material; and development o f
community-based communicationpilots.




                                                 - 2 -

Implementation Support and Monitoring & Evaluation Component: A Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) will be established within the DLS. PCU will be headed by the Project Director.
PCU will be supervised by the Project Steering Committee (PSC), headed by Secretary, MOFL.
The PCU will be responsible for project implementation, coordination and management. It will
contain a number o f national staff to handle communication, procurement, financial management,
safeguards, operations and the management o f other Project activities.       It will also have a
technical assistance team (consisting o f international and national experts) hired through FAO.
The project would provide support for national and international experts to assist with
implementation, communication and management. The project would provide support for the
incremental staffing needs o f the PCU, including Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) staff, and
incremental operational cost for the PCU. The project would also provide financial and technical
support for regular internal M&E o f the Project as well as for an independent evaluation on a
periodic basis. The M&Einthe PCUwill be responsible for monitoring & evaluation o f AIPRP.

Which safeguardpoliciesare triggered,ifany?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)

Significant,non-standardconditions: Ref.SectionC.4

Boardpresentation: June 26,2007

Loadcrediteffectiveness: October31,2007

Covenantsapplicableto projectimplementation: Ref. Section C.4




                                                - 3 -

                         A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE



1. Countryand Sector Issues


1.     Bangladesh i s a high risk country as far as Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) i s
concerned, especially the H5N1 strain. Some 50 % o f the national poultry flock (a total o f about 185
million) is backyard poultry, with minimalbio-security. It has a large duck population(37 million).
Bangladeshis visited annually in the winter monthsby 21 species of migratory birds that can carry
the virus. Traditionally, it has imported a large number o f day old chicks (DOCs.) and it has
porous borders with neighbouring countries (India and Myanmar) that have had outbreaks'.
Bangladesh also experienced outbreaks o f H5N1 from February to M a y 2007. The problem is
not yet over andit has affected boththe commercial farms andthe bockyard poultry.

2.      Poultry disease surveillance at present is almost entirely limited to clinical surveillance
based on trigger points or indicators (mortality). The Department o f Livestock Services (DLS),
within the Ministry o f Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL), is responsible for a Central Disease
Investigation Laboratory (CDIL) in Dhaka, and a national network o f 7 Field Disease
Investigation Laboratories (FDILs).All these laboratories are invery poor condition with almost
no equipment or staff trained in avian influenza diagnosis. Ineach o f the 464 Upazila Offices
(sub-districts) o f the country, there are at least two DLS officers (one veterinarian and one
livestock officer) and support staff that are responsible for disease surveillance and provision of
basic veterinary and livestock services. However, many o f the staff positions are vacant and
very few have reliable transport facilities or operational funding to enable them to undertake
routine disease surveillance.

3.      The M O F L i s also the parent ministry o f the Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
(BLRI) at Savar, just outside Dhaka. The BLRIis essentially a research facility and is currently
recognised as the National Reference Laboratory (NRL) for AI diagnosis. Prior to the outbreak,
it had analysed a large number o f samples taken from imported grandparent DOCs, all o f which
were found negative for highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI). The DLS has received
limited donor assistance in the past to strengthen its veterinary services. The diagnostic
capability o f the laboratories at BLRI has received some support from Danida and JICA.
However no assistancehas been provided for the central and field investigationlaboratories or to
enable veterinary officers to undertake regular surveillance. The commercial poultry sector
(sectors 1, 2 and 3), which accounts for another 50% o f the national poultry flock, has little
interaction with the public veterinary services (see Annex 1 for characteristics o f main poultry
production sectors inSoutheast Asia).



1  Following the H5N1 outbreak inIndia in2006, Bangladeshbanned the import o f day old chicks (DOCs) except
   for grandparent stock. However it is generally accepted that a considerable number o f DOCSare still being
   imported, as imports are considerably cheaper (imported DOCs sell for TklO as compared to over Tk30 for
   domestically produced DOCs).


                                                    - 4 -

4.     Some observers have attributed the lack o f detection o f HPAI until February 2007 in
poultry in Bangladesh to the country's very limited diagnostic capacity.                Under the
circumstances, it seems probable that the country had been fortunate with no virus outbreak till
February 2007, or that any introduction (most probably from migratory birds) hadnot established
and spread as a result o f the special ecological features o f the country. The mainresting places
for migratory birds are in the coastal areas where there is relatively little poultry production.
Now that outbreaks have taken place, steps need to be taken urgently to prepare for more such
outbreaks in the future. The special features o f the country may be providing some protection,
butthis needsto be investigated as parto fthe global epidemiological studyo fthe disease.

5.     Health care inBangladesh i s provided byboththe government andthe private sector. The
MinistryofHealth and FamilyWelfare (MOHFW) leads a large sector wide program called the
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program (HNPSP).            HNPSP (2003-2010) has three
components. The first focuses on accelerating the achievement o f the health-related Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs), the Government's poverty reduction strategies and population
policy objectives. The second component focuses on emerging challenges. These include the
provision o f facilities to deal with accidents and emergencies, new emerging diseases as well as
non-communicable diseases. The third component addresses major policy reforms in the health
sector. These policy reforms will increase management capacity and the ability o f the
Government to engage with other service providers, such as NGOs, the private sector and civil
society. HNPSP is supported by the World Bank and other development partners.

6.      Government health services are provided almost free, while charges are levied for private
health services. There is very little linkage or exchange o f information between the public and
private health care providers. The public sector consists o f a network of national, district and
Upazila health complexes, with basic facilities and staffing. There i s at least one, 30-50 bed,
health complex in each Upazila. At present, these hospitals are not well prepared for case
management and would have difficulty handling even a modest outbreak o f HPAI influenza in
humans.Similarly, the larger hospitals inthe urbanareas, that aremost likelyto beneededinthe
event o f a humanpandemic, are also poorly equipped. Some steps have beentaken at the central
level to purchase limited supplies o f personnel protective equipment (PPE) for health workers
and rapid response teams, anti-viral medication (oseltamivir), antibiotics and antipyretics, and
disinfecting supplies. A number o f sensitization training courses for medical staff have also been
undertaken.

7.      Bangladesh has a relatively weak public health surveillance and response system. The
MOHFW has an extensive network o flocal, district, and regionalinstitutions, but the quality and
accuracy o f information about reported diseases i s low. Most information comes from the public
sector, while a large amount o f illness is seen in the private sector. In addition to passive,
reportable disease data, the Institute o f Epidemiology, Disease Control, and Research (IEDCR),
the agency responsible for national disease surveillance, recently established a network o f
sentinel surveillance sites at the Upazila level in rural areas. Review o f data from these sites
suggests low sensitivity for capturing routine diagnoses like acute upper respiratory infections,
influenza-like illness (ILI) and pneumonias. The International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease
Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) has well-established active surveillance sites and has been
monitoring influenza-like illness. Unless and until adequate national level systems are



                                                 - 5 -

developed, IEDCR will have to continue to collaborate with ICDDR,B and other relevant non-
governmental agencies to assure some level o f surveillance. More detail on the sector and the
main agencies responsible for disease surveillance andcontrol i s provided inAnnexes 1and 3.

8.      In response to concerns about HPAI, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), with
assistance from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO), has prepared a National Avian Influenza and HumanPandemic Influenza
Preparedness andResponse Plan (NAIP). This Plan, which conforms to the general standards for
such plans set by FAO, WHO, and the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), outlines
specific strategies, institutional arrangements, and activities to be undertaken by concerned
ministries to prepare for, prevent, contain andrespond to HPAIoutbreaks inpoultryandhumans.
It also identifies the additional facilities and staff training needed to implement the plan. The
NAIPwas approved bythe Office o fthe PrimeMinister inmid-April2006.

9.      A National Advisory Committee (NAC), comprising the Ministers of the participating
Ministries, i s the apex coordinating body for the NAP. Beneath the NAC, there i s a National
Multi-Sectoral Task Force (NMTF) with representation from a wide range o f public and private
sector agencies. Inaddition, intra-ministerialnational technical committees are being established
within the three main participating ministries i.e. MOFL, MOHFW, and the Ministry o f
Environment & Forest (MOEF) that is responsible inter alia for monitoring migratory birds.
According to the NAIF', during the pre-pandemic phase (phase 1) o f HPAI, MOFL will have
primary responsibility for implementation o f the Plan. Duringthe alert phase (phase 2 i.e. post
pre-pandemic phase), responsibility will transfer to MOHFW. Inthe pandemic phase (phase 3)
the Office o fthe PrimeMinisterwill take responsibility for implementationo fthe Plan.

10.     A draft Avian Influenza Prevention Program has been prepared by the DLS, that
describes inter alia a number o f actions and responsibilities that need to be undertaken during the
various phases o f the disease. The document also briefly outlines the operational procedures,
risk communication strategy, culling procedures and compensationplan. Duringimplementation
o f the proposed project, it is envisaged that these manuals will be updated and expanded as new
information becomes available. In particular, technical sections need to describe in detail the
procedures for surveillance, laboratory diagnosis, containment (culling and disposal o f birds),
human disease        surveillance,   diagnosis,    curative   care,  environmental    management,
communication and compensation.


2. Rationale for Bank Involvement

11.     The outbreaks o f H5N1 in early 2007 in Bangladesh, and in early 2006 in the
neighbouring countries o f India and Myanmar, have highlighted the fact that Bangladesh i s a
high risk country as far as HPAI is concerned. Given the risks o f future outbreaks, the present
weakness o f the national veterinary services and limited national resources, there is an urgent
need for assistance to help the government strengthen its veterinary services and related aspects,
including surveillance, diagnostic capabilities, laboratory facilities, communicatiordpublic
awareness and compensation policy. There i s also an urgent need to strengthensome sections o f
the human medical services as there is very limited trained capacity and limited facilities
dedicated to handling HPAI from surveillance, diagnosis through to curative care.              Few



                                                 - 6 -

development partners are providing limited assistance to the government for HPAI activities.
However, available resources are not adequate to meet the basic needs o f the veterinary services
and facilities related to avian influenza, and there is thus a strong case for the provision o f
resources from the World Bank's Global Program for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
Preparedness and Response (GPAI). There i s also a global public goods argument in favor o f
assisting Bangladesh to strengthen its AI response capacity as part o f a coordinated international
and regional initiatives to minimize the risk o f spread o f any outbreak to neighboring countries
andbeyond.

12.     Furthermore, Bangladesh meets all the eligibility criteria for having access to funds under
the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) insupport o f GPAI. The Government o fBangladesh (GOB)
has already prepared a National Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Influenza Preparedness
and Response Plan (the Plan). This planwas approved by the Prime Minister inApril 2006. As
a follow up to this Plan, GOB has also prepared (i)draft Avian Influenza Prevention Program
                                                      a
(which focuses on critical operational guidelines); and (ii) National Communication Strategy
                                                              a
and Action Plan for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Influenza.              The GOB has also
provided additional budgetary resources to improve AI surveillance and diagnosis. This clearly
demonstrates Government's commitment and readiness to implement early detection and rapid
response measures. While there i s a commitment, the country lacks financial resources, has very
weak capacity andfaces a very highrisk o fHPAI.

13.     While the proposed new project (Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
(AIPRP)) would finance AI activities related to animal health, the on-going project (HNPSP)
would finance AI activities related to human health. HNPSP is a very large (US$4.3 billion),
multi-year sector program financed by the GOB, the World Bank and development partners. The
World Bank administers about US$760 million o f these pooled resources -- consisting o f
US$300 million IDA credit and the US$460 million o f grant financing from other bilateral and
multilateral development partners. The mainreasons for usingfunds from HNPSP, for the Avian
Influenza Component, are (a) it makes logical sense to tap into a human health program that i s
already under implementation; (b) HNPSP covers the entire health sector with appropriate
implementation arrangements and i s equipped to manage project funds; and (c) it can start
fundingAI activities almost immediately. HNPSPalready makes a specific provision for funding
new and emerginghuman health challenges such as HPAI.



                                  B.PROJECTDESCRIPTION



1. The Plan,the Programandthe Project

14.     As has been indicated above, the GOB has already prepared the Avian Influenza Plan
entitled the National Avian Influenza and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan
(2006-2008) which is known as NAIP or the Plan. The Plan provides a strategic national
framework to control and contain any outbreak o f HPAIinBangladesh. At the request o f GOB,
the World Bank has agreed to finance the Avian Influenza Program. The AI Program fiu-ther
consists o f two parts: (a) the Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponse Project (AIPRP, a new


                                               - 7 -

project that deals with animal health); and (b) Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP, an on-
going project that deals with human health. These two parts o f the proposed AI Program are
closely linked and carefully coordinated by appropriate national agencies dealing with HPAI in
Bangladesh.      However, the NAIP did not work very well during the recent outbreaks and
therefore appropriate lessons need to be incorporatedto strengthen NAIP, particularlyto improve
implementationduringany future outbreaks.


2. FinancingArrangements

15.      The AIPRP project would be financed by IDA credit under the GPAIAdaptable Program
Loan (APL), with contributions from the GOB. Technical assistance and training under the
project, to the extent possible, would be financed by the grant funds from the Avian Human
Influenza Trust Fund (AHITF)', which i s being administered by the World Bank. On the other
hand, the AI Component o f HNPSP would be financed from the on-going HNPSP and this
agreement to finance has already beenendorsedby all the HNPSP partners'. Financing for avian
influenza activities from HNPSP (which runs through December 2010) has already been initiated
under the Communicable Disease Operational Plan (CDOP) which has a specific component for
supporting new emerging diseases. Furthermore, the project aims at building and consolidating
all GOB and donor initiatives related to HPAI in order to avoid any duplication and make the
best use o f scarce resources. The proposed project and the AI program are estimated to cost
US$21 million andU S 3 7 million, respectively(see Annex 5).

 16.     N o co-financing is envisaged for APRP, as no development partners have indicated an
interest in direct participation. There is, however, a limited amount o f parallel financing for
HPAI activities. The more significant include:(i)        USAID supported (US$5 15,000) project being
implemented by FAO, starting inNovember 2006. The project will support the updating o f the
National Plan, and improved laboratory diagnosis and surveillance. (ii)The Government o f
Japan (GOJ) has made available US$1.1 million to UNICEF in Bangladesh to prepare a
communication strategy and to disseminate pre-pandemic information.                        (iii)Danida is
contributing US$300,000 (and possibly more) for training o f staff in laboratory diagnosis and
laboratory equipment, including the provision o f reagents to BLRI. (iv) The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) has a regional project with an allocation of US$400,000 for Bangladesh. This
project, also implementedby FAO, started with a review o f the current veterinary laboratory
 status of the country. In addition, GOB has also allocated additional resources to strengthen
 surveillance, diagnostics and communication.




    Contributors to the AHITF include the European Commission, DFID, Russia, Australia, China, South Korea,
    Iceland, Slovenia and Estonia.
 2  World Bank is providing US$300 million for HNPSP. Inaddition, seven development partners are co-financing
    US$460 million for this program. These include DFID, Sida, the Embassy of the Kingdom o f the Netherlands
    and UNFPA who have signed administrative agreements with the Bank to co-finance the HNPSP. Two other
    development partners i.e. CIDA and the Federal Republic o f Germany through KfW, are expected to enter into
    co-financing arrangements with the Bank. Financing the AI Component from HNPSP would be independent of
    financing from the proposedAvian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project.

3. ProjectDesignPrinciples

17.     Immediate action (improved national surveillance and diagnosis at the central level and
stock piling o f emergency supplies) is needed in a number o f areas, but there i s also a long-term
agenda (staff training and improvements insurveillance, diagnostic and curative facilities), given
systemic shortcomings in both core public health functions and veterinary services. Therefore,
work on both the short- and long-term fronts needs to proceed inparallel, and efforts should be
made to ensure that short-term responses are consistent with and contribute to the proposed long-
term interventions.    To this effect and given limited institutional capacity, weak national
veterinary services and poor facilities, the proposed project would be for a period o f five years.
Inthe first three years of the project, the emphasis would be on strengthening surveillance and
diagnosis, with a particular focus on high risk areas and hot spots. In the final years o f the
project, the emphasis would be on consolidation, firther staff training, and provision o f funds to
meet recurrent costs in order to ensure long-term sustainability. By concentrating on priority
actions, the project would generate benefits duringnormal times as well as during a pandemic.


4. ProjectDevelopmentObjective and Key Indicators

18.     The overall objective ofthe Project is to minimize the threat posedbyHPAIto humans in
Bangladesh by controlling such infections in domestic poultry, and preparing for, controlling,
and responding to possible human infections, especially an influenza epidemic and related
emergencies. Though the objective i s specific to HPAI, the interventions are expected to
contribute to the control o f other zoonotic diseases and other types o f infectious diseases, in
terms o fbuildingoverall response capacity inthe country.

19.     This objective will be achieved through three types o f interventions: (i)  prevention; (ii)
preparedness and planning; and (iii)    response and containment. If these types o f interventions
achieve their goals, the proposed project will reduce the burden o f HPAI in poultry and the
consequent economic losses. It will also lower the risk o f human infection and the loss o f
productivity attributable to human infections in Bangladesh. Finally, it would limit the risk o f
HPAIinother countries.

20.     At the end o f the Project, it is expected that (i) capacity o f the agencies involved in
                                                          the
HPAI containment, control and mitigation will be improved; (ii) threat to humanhealthinthe
                                                                  the
highrisks areas of Bangladesh will be reduced; and (iii) general public will be made aware
                                                           the
andwill have adopted AI related human health, animal health and environmental safeguards. A
comprehensive list o f indicators i s providedinAnnex 2.


5. ProjectComponents

21.     The proposed AIPW has three components: (i) health, (ii) awareness and
                                                          animal            public
information, and (iii)implementation support and monitoring & evaluation. A summary o f
project components and activities i s givenbelow and more detail i s provided inAnnex 3.




                                                - 9 -

I. Animal Health Component

22.     This component concentrates on enhancing prevention and preparedness, strengthening
disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity, strengthening control programs, improving bio-
security, providing support for surveillance o f migratory birds and establishing a contingency
fund. Due to limitedcapability o fthe DLS, aninternational disease control expert willbe fielded
full time in the first year to ensure effective implementation and continued progress. He/she
would visit for short periods duringall the succeeding years o f the project.

(A) Enhancing Prevention and Preparedness Capability

23.     AI -Adapting National Policy Framework. This would include (a) a review o f national
policies for the control of livestock diseases; (b) an evaluation of the national veterinary services;
according to OIE standards; and (c) a review o f national compensation policy. The sub-
component would support national and international technical expertise to assist the DLS with
the reviews andwould build onthe work started byother development partners.

24.     A2  - Improving Prevention and Control Planning. There i s a need for NAP to be
updated and, inparticular, for private sector and NGOs to be fully involved in the development
o f the revised NAP. The Plan also needs to be tested with `tabletop' and `real life' simulation
exercises which the project would finance. There i s also a need for better national and regional
understanding o f the issues associated with HPAI, and the project would finance participation in
selected national andregional conferences and workshops.

(B) StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillance and Diagnostic Capacity

25.      BI Strengthening of Veterinary Services. Following the review o f veterinary services
            -
and regulations, the Project would support any amendments needed in legislation and also
reforms inthe structure o f veterinary services, as part o fDLS.

26.      B2 Strengthening Disease Surveillance and Laboratory Diagnosis. This would be a
            -
major intervention o f the Project and would have a number o f sub-interventions, including (a)
improving animal health information flow; (b) improving detection, reporting and follow-up o f
reported cases; (c) public and community based surveillance networks; (d) epidemiological
surveys and research to support strategic activity; and (e) improved laboratory diagnostic
capacity.

27.      B3  - Strengthening Applied Veterinary Research. The Project would support some
applied research projects on HPAI in the form of competitive grants to veterinary colleges and
faculties to fully understand the status and scenario o f the infection inBangladesh.

(C) Strengthening Control Programs and Containment Plans

28.      CI Targeting Virus Elimination at the Source. There is an urgent need to establish
            -
rapid response teams trained, equipped and with operational funding to contain the disease in




                                                 -10-

infected places by effective quarantine. This will enable rapid action to cull and safely dispose
o fbirds andother infected materials andthe disinfection o f infected sites.

29.     C2 Fundfor Supporting Animal Vaccination. There is need to design a vaccination
            -
strategy based on surveillance and epidemiological surveys, and on the basis o f usingvaccination
in conjunction with culling, if necessary. The Project would support a contingency fund (see
below) for the acquisition o f good quality HPAI vaccines for poultry produced in accordance
with OIE guidelines.

30.     C3  - Personnel Safety. Given the highly pathogenic nature o f the H5N1 virus, it i s
important that all staff and workers, likely to be in close association with diseased birds, are
trained in safe handlingprocedures. The Project would also provide the staff and workers with
training andpersonal protective equipment (PPE),

(0)ImprovingBio-Security in Poultry Production and Trade.

31.     InBangladesh, in addition to the backyard poultry, the section of the poultry industry
most at risk i s the level 3 or small commercial producers. These are low cost producers and they
generally have limited bio-security measures. The proposedproject would support the DLS staff
to encourage such producers to improve their bio-security measures.

(E) Supportfor Surveillance of Migratory Birds

32.     The Project would provide funds for the MOEF to improve surveillance and reporting o f
the occurrence o f unusual wild bird deaths. The MOEF would also be provided with limited
amount o f PPE and bio-secure containers in which to transport samples from migratory birds
suspected o f dying from HPAIto a laboratory for analysis.

(F) Contingency Fund

33.     FI   -  Compensation Program.       The project would support the establishment of a
compensation program in case there i s a need to compensate affected poultry farmers for culled
birdsinthe infectedareas, inaccordance with the guidelines that are beingestablishedby GOB

 34.    F2   -  Personal Protective Equipment and Vaccines.          The Project would provide
contingency funds for procurement o f PPE, if required, for control and containment in the case
o f an outbreak as well as procurement o fvaccines.

II.PublicAwarenessandInformation Component

 35.    This component i s designed to safeguard human health, inparticular for extension staff,
 animal health workers, poultry producers, poultry traders, poultry processors and other
 stakeholders dealing with poultry, by improving public awareness and information about the
 HPAI. Communication is extremelyimportant to minimize negative consequences of HPAIon
poultry production, consumption and human health and has to be well adapted to the
 Bangladeshi conditions.        This Project would support implementation o f the National



                                               - 11-

Communication Strategy and Action Plan, that has been prepared by GOB and the UNICEF
(with financial support from Japan), by introducing innovative and best-practice examples to
strengthen communication activities.     The component would be implemented by the AIPRP
PCU, in cooperation with MOFL, MOEF, MOHFW, MOI and other stakeholders.                   Inthis
context, the South Asia Enterprise Development Facility (SEDF) o f the International Finance
Corporation (IFC, the private arm o f the World Bank Group) can also play an important role
since it works with commercial poultry industryinBangladesh. Improving public awareness and
information has two sub-components:

(A) Capacity Building

36.     This sub-component will strengthen capacity o f the national and regional (within
Bangladesh) massmedia (print,television and radio) to accurately report on HPAI.

(B) Information and Communication Services

37.     Bl Advocacy and Collaboration with Stakeholders. The multi-dimensional problems,
            -
associated with HPAI infection, necessitate collaboration from a wide range o f stakeholders,
which has to be supported by broad communications and information campaigns to improve
public awareness. The sub-component would support activities designed to improve coordination
and collaboration among all major stakeholders, including various ministries and agencies (e.g.
Planning, Finance, Agriculture, Health, Information, Department o f Livestock Services, national
research institutions and diagnostic laboratories), NGOs, civil society, private sector companies
and associations (e.g. large poultry production companies, farmers' associations, veterinarians
andfarmers at the grassroots level).

38.      B2 - Production and Dissemination of Communication Material. Activities would
include developing and testing messages and materials to be used during all stages o f HPAI and
fbrther enhancing infrastructures to disseminate information from national to local levels and
between the public and private sectors modules (web-based, printed, audio and video);
presentations, slide sets, videos, and documentaries; and symposia on surveillance, treatment and
prophylaxis.

39.      B3 Developing Community-based Communication Pilots. This sub-component would
            -
support the development and implementation o f training courses in communications
methodology for extension and veterinary staff as well as health workers and NGOs at the
national and local levels.     It would include preparation o f local programs, preparation and
dissemination o f information materials and the provision o f communications and information
equipment for use at the local and national levels.

III. ImplementationSupportandMonitoring&Evaluation Component

40.      This component would have two sub-components.




                                               - 12-

(A) Implementation and TechnicalSupport

41.     A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is being established within the DLS. The PCUwill
be responsible for project implementation, coordination and management.          It will contain a
number o f national staff to handle communication, procurement, financial management,
safeguards, operations and the management o f Project activities. It will also have a technical
assistance team (consisting o f international and national experts) hired through FAO. The
project would provide support for national and international experts to assist with
implementation, communication andmanagement. Inparticular, the project will support (a) long-
term international veterinary expertise to assist DLS; (b) a long-term national expert to assist in
project implementationand will be based inthe Project Coordination Unit (PCU); and (c) a long-
term national expert to assist with implementation and coordination o f the AI Component o f
HNPSP and based in DGHS under MOHFW. The project would also provide support for the
incremental staffing needs of the PCU, including M&E staff and operational cost for the PCU.

(B) Monitoring and Evaluation

42.     This sub-component would provide financial and technical support for regular internal
M&E o f the Project as well as for an independent evaluation on a periodic basis. The M&E in
the PCU will be responsible for monitoring & evaluation o f AIRPP. M&E will be part o f the
Management Information System (MIS) that would be established inthe PCU.


6. Avian Influenza Componentof HNPSP


43.     The NAP provides a strategy and framework for addressing all major aspects o f
preparedness and response to humandisease from avian influenza. The HNPSP is a sector wide
program covering the entire health sector with the mandate o f meeting the emerging health
challenges facing the country. In the design o f HNPSP, MOHFW had anticipated the possible
occurrence o f new and emerging communicable diseases that would require interventions.
MOHFW has initiated the task of programming the envisaged avian influenza activities into
HNPSP. These have been incorporated into the Communicable Disease Operational Plan o f the
HSPNP and endorsed by appropriate GOB authorities. The activities under avian influenza can
be divided into those representing improvements in general capacity for emerging and re-
emerging diseases (such as information technology and laboratory enhancements) and those that
are influenza-specific (such as acquisition o f antiviral medication). Both are important, but the
former will probably have longer lasting impact. The Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP
would have three sub-components.

(A) EnhancingPublic Health Program Planning and Coordination.

44.     This sub-component will support (a) review o f the existing regulatory and legal
framework in Bangladesh for surveillance, prevention, control activities and policies; (b)
periodic assessments of capacity at the regional (division) and sub-regional (district) levels to
address avian influenza; (c) development and dissemination o f guidelines and protocols for avian
influenza surveillance, investigation, and case management; and (d) development and conduct of


                                               - 13 -

tabletop and field simulations related to avian influenza. Technical assistance will be provided
to conduct regulatory reviews, develop and conduct periodic capacity assessments, develop
guidelines, and develop and conduct simulation exercises.

(B) StrengtheningNational Public Health SurveillanceSystem

45.     Bl Strengthening DiseaseMonitoring & Reporting. This sub-component will support
            -
(a) training o f personnel on surveillance and investigation o f this disease to include the
strengthening and enhancement o f sentinel surveillance for influenza-like illness (ILI); (b)
upgrading o f priority infrastructure o f health surveillance services to provide for better national
surveillance for viral pneumonia and other manifestations o f human disease caused by avian
influenza; and (c) support for district and national rapid response teams to conduct field
investigations related to avian andpandemic influenza.

46.     B2 Strengthening Public Health Laboratory Network. Under this sub-component,
             -
funds would be provided for (a) laboratory strengthening to diagnose avian influenza, including
provision o f rapid diagnostic kits to regional laboratories and sentinel sites; and (b) development
o f virus isolation capacity at IEDCR. Support for IEDCR to develop and operate real time
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) capacity is being provided by other donors. Technical
assistance support will be provided for the development o f information technology related to
disease surveillance and for the establishment o f a pre-fabricated bio-safety level 3 (BSL-3)
laboratory for virus isolation.

(C) Strengthening Health CareSystemPreparednessand Response Capacity

47.     This sub-component would have four interventions.

48.      C1 Personnel Safety Equipment. Acquisition o fpersonal protective equipment (PPE)
             -
for use byhealth care workers andinvestigators.

49.      C2 Purchase of Seasonal Vaccine Doses. Acquisition o f seasonal influenza vaccine
             -
for highrisk health care workers, culling workers, and rapid response team members.

50.      C3 Disease CaseManagement. This would include (a) training o f clinicians andhealth
            -
care workers; (b) acquisition o f antivirals and other medications for disease prophylaxis and
treatment; (c) acquisition o f hygienic and disinfecting supplies; and (d) renovation o f health care
facilities for case isolation andmanagement.

51.      C4 Pandemic Planning. This would include (a) development o f protocols for health
             -
care system surge capacity and social distancing measures; and (b) equipment and materials for
quarantineoperations andmortuaryservices. Technical assistanceto develop protocols for surge
capacity, social distancing andmortuary services will be supported.




                                                 - 14-

                                    C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

52.      Implementation ofthe Plan: The Government o f Bangladeshhas designated MOFL and
MOHFW to implement its national Plan (NAP), with appropriate support from other agencies,
including MOEF and MOI. A National Advisory Committee (NAC), comprising o f 16 Ministers
and a representative o f the Prime Minister's Secretariat, has been designated as the apex
coordinating body. Beneath the NAC, a National Multi-Sectoral Task Force (NMTF) has been
establishedwith representation from a wide range o fpublic andprivate sector agencies. The cost
for implementingthe Plan is being borne by GOB.

53.       Implementation of the Program: The Avian Influenza Program for Bangladesh consists
o f two parts (a) Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (AIPRP, a new project); and
(b) Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP. The supervision o f the Avian Influenza Program
will include both the animal health (AIPRP) and the humanhealth (Avian Influenza Component
o f HNPSP) aspects o f the avian influenza. The public health expert, provided under the AIPRP,
but based inDGHS, will serve as the link between these two parts o f the AI program. The AI
Component o f HNPSP will be implemented by MOHFW, using all the existing procurement and
financial management arrangements.

54.       Implementation ofthe Project: The World Bank supported AIPRP i s under the Global
Program for the Avian Influenza andHumanPandemic Preparedness andResponse (GPAI). The
AIPRP, an emergency project, is designed to provide assistance for avian influenza within the
overall framework o f the GOB'Snational Plan. The project would be implemented over a period
o f 5 years. A PCUi s being established inthe DLS under the Ministryo f Fisheries and Livestock
(MOFL) to implement and coordinate the project activities, including communication,
procurement, financial management, safeguards, monitoring andreporting.

55.       The PCU inthe DLS will be headedby the Project Director (PD) andwill be responsible
for the overall coordination o f project implementation and the project related activities. The
Project Director will have all the authorities provided under the existing GOB regulations. The
PCU will be supervised by the Project Steering Committee (PSC), headed by Secretary, MOFL,
and would share information with MOFL, MOEF, MOHFW, MOIand the development partners,
on a periodic basis. The PCU will monitor the implementation progress o f AIPRP during
implementation and will produce progresshpecial reports.          The PCU would be staffed by
appropriate number o f staff and consultants for overall administration, coordination,
procurement, financial management, communications, safeguards and internal M&E.

56.       The project would provide support for national and international experts to assist with
implementation, coordination andmanagement (see Annex 10 for terms o f reference). Most, not
all, o f the consultants would be on a short-term basis. The project would also provide support for
the incremental staffing needs o f the PCU, including M&E staff and operational cost for the
PCU. Annex 4 provides details about project coordination andimplementation arrangements.




                                                - 15-

2. MonitoringandEvaluationof Outcomes/Results

57.     The M&E unit in the PCU will continuously and systematically monitor project
implementation activities, outputs and outcomes. The key indicators to be monitored include:
preparation and approval o f contingency plans; extent o f animal surveillance and laboratory
testing; training o fveterinary andhealth officers; readiness for outbreak containment; enactment
of containment plans (as and when necessary); changes to legislation; fully developed human
surveillance systems and equipped laboratories; training o f health workers; weekly/monthly
disease reporting; preparation of communication material and communication strategy. Further
details are provided inAnnex 2.

58.     A national M&E specialist is included as a consultant to work withinthe AIPRP PCUfor
the entire project period. He/she would be responsible for preparing the M&E program at the
beginning o f the Project, for training central and district staff inhow to record and report data,
and for producing regular reports for the PSC and the World Bank. He/she would work closely
with the PCUinpreparing quarterly progress/special reports.

59.     Inaddition, the PCUwill appoint, using agreed procurement guidelines (and preferably
through FAO), a team of consultants for an independent impact evaluation o f the Project. This
team will carry out a base line survey for the key performance indicators, collect data at a
specified frequency, analyse those, and prepare a baseline, mid-tern and end-of-the-proj ect
impact evaluationreports.
3. Sustainability,CriticalRisksandPossible ControversialAspects

60.     Sustainability. Project sustainability depends on (i)    continuous ownership o f the HPAI
initiative by various stakeholders; (ii) political support at various levels; and (iii)
                                           strong                                              adequate
flow o f financial resources to carry out activities after the project closes.                   During
implementation, the project would facilitate sustainability by: (i)strengthening programs to
provide information and maintain public awareness o f the threat o f HPAI; (ii)        sustained HPAI
surveillance, diagnosis, prevention and control activities, particularly in high risk areas; (iii)
strengthening capacity o f national institutions to manage the risk factors associated with the
spread o f HPAI; (iv) improving effectiveness o f programs to control the spread o f HPAI from
birdsto the general population inBangladesh; and (iv) strengthening the medical care network to
cope with the increased demandand to prevent spreadof infection.

61.     Critical Risks, A summary of critical risks for the Project and the likely mitigation
measures are provided below:

                  Risk                     I RatingI               Mitigation Measure
FromOutputs to Objective
Decline inpolitical commitments to         I   H   IContinuing support for inter-sectoral collaboration
addressingHPAIand the threat o f a                  through information exchanges and dialogue, and
Global Influenza Pandemic and other                 operationalization o f the NationalAvian Influenza
infectious diseases, as a nationalpriority.         and Human Pandemic & Influenza Preparedness
                                                    and Response Plan (NAIP),which i s to provide
                                                    general policies and guidance for avian influenza
                                                    control.


                                                 - 16-

hadequacyor lack o f multi-sectoral       M    NAPwill facilitate coordinationand linkages
3articipation.                                 across relevant agencies and international partners.
                                               Inaddition, GOBhas establishedaNational
                                               Advisory Committee WAC) and National Multi-
                                               Sectoral Task Force (NMTF) with representatives
                                               from various stakeholders.
Low commitment at the local levels             Implementationmechanisms explicitly address the
means that strong central commitment           linkbetween the requiredcentralized decision
does not translate into action on the          making (the principle o f `direct chain o f
ground.                                        command') with the needed implementation (at the
                                               local level); communication strategies and capacity
                                               buildingwill include agencies, staffand
                                               communities at the local level.
Outbreaks are not recognized and               Activities to strengthen surveillance and reporting,
reported quickly enough to initiate            including (i) initiation o f year-round influenza
control measures.                              surveillance inanimals and humans;(ii) training o f
                                               front-line animal and human health workers in
                                               identification andreporting; (iii)  improved
                                               communications infrastructure; and (iv)
                                               establishment o f appropriate laboratories.
Intervention activities not effective in       Activities would strengthenresponse capacity in
containingthe spread o f avian influenza       priority areas and lay the foundation for a more
from birds to the humanpopulation.             broadlybased strategy, including:
                                                   Comprehensive awareness, information and
                                                   communication campaigns are critical to
                                                   containingthe spread o f an influenza
                                                   pandemic.
                                                   Choosingwell-designed, and cost-effective
                                                   interventions.
                                                   Interventions phased and carefully monitored,
                                                   allowing for modifications and redesign, as
                                                   needed.
                                                   Service delivery decentralized with the
                                                   appropriate use o f local governments and civil
                                                   society.
                                                   Good M&E systemto flag emerging issues.
Lack o f independent internalaudit             Ensure that robust internal audit function i s
function.                                      independent from operations and reports to top
                                               management and the NAC.
GOB i s unable to react quickly to             Procurement plan already prepared and critical
outbreaks.                                     staffing already identified. Trainedrapid response
                                               teams and stockpile o f equipment and vaccines.
                                               Appropriate communications and transportation
                                               support to ensure rapidresponse.
MOHFWinitiative lackingin                      Incorporate progress on AI preparations as an
mainstreaming Avian Fluactivities into         agenda inthe Annual ProgramReview and
HNPSP                                          encourage discussions at HNP forum meetinns




                                            - 17-

Project implementing agencies lack           S   Adequate arrangements are beingput inplace for
sufficient authority, leadership and             project implementation and strengthening o f
capacity to take a leadingrole inavian           capacity.
influenzaprevention and control.
Controlling the spread o fthe pandemic       S   Projectwill support advocacy and coalition
may expose the Government to criticism           buildingto sensitize key groups, includingpolicy
concerning the curtailment o f civil rights      makers and the media. This will be complemented
due to the adoption o f quarantines and          by carefully designed mass communication
other related measures.                          campaigns to buildsupport amongthe population.
Lack o f laboratory capacity for prompt      H   Project activities will be coordinated with efforts
diagnosis and surveillance and o f               undertaken by other international organization that
sufficient quantities o f drugs and other        have HPAIrelatedprograms inBangladesh,
medical inputsneededto address the               particularly relatedto strengthening laboratory
needs o f the general population duringa         facilities.
pandemic.
Inadequate institutional capacity to         S   Capacity building and institutional development is
manage the project.                              one o f the project's key objectives and substantial
                                                 resources are allocated to these efforts.
Financial resources not accessible in a      H   Procurement and financial management
timely manner; weak procurement                  arrangements will be handledby the experienced
management.                                      staff inPCU and capacity would be strengthened.
Lack o f timely and predictable access to  I M   Project activities have been designed with
                                                 assistance from leading multilateral agencies such
                                                 as FA0 and WHO. Such assistance i s expected to
                                                 continue over time. Alternative sources o ftechnical
                                                 assistance will also be explored
L o w priority given to public               S   Publication o f audit results and achievements;
accountability and transparency in               transparency indecision making and resource
program management.                              allocation.
Inadequate capacity for planned              M   Training and technical assistance for surveillance
surveillance, surveys and monitoring &           and epidemiologicalinvestigations; partnership
evaluation.                                      between local and international institutions will be
                                                 provided. The M&E plan will include information
                                                 on instruments for data collection, agencies
                                                 responsible and a detailed time table.
Cooperation agreement with ICDDR,B               There i s an ongoing linkage being supported
on surveillance and laboratory use not           through the CDC initiative. These and other
concluded.                                       technical linkages will encourage cooperation.
Misuse o f the Compensation Program              Implementationarrangements for the
facility.                                        Compensation Programmust incorporate strong
                                                 features o f transparency, community involvement,
                                                 and ex-ante andex-post checks that have been
                                                 found effective inthe country under other projects.
Overall RiskRating:                          S

RiskRating: H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligible or LowRisk)




                                              -1 8 -

62.    Overall, lack o f good governance has been recognized as a major problem in the World
Bank's 2006-09 Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh. This project will be implemented
in an environment o f weak governance and highperceived corruption. In addition to the risk
mitigation measures highlighted above, the Project will place a special emphasis on disclosure
andtransparency. Specific measures, incorporatedinthe design o f this project as well as during
implementation, that would promote good governance are summarized below:

               Ex-ante controls. Appropriate ex-ante internal controls inthe poultry culling and
               compensation program will be implemented and ex-ante checks will be carried
               out before any compensation payments are made.

               Annual operational review. To supplement the annual project audit, an annual
               operational review will be carried out by external reviewers, acceptable to the
               World Bank, who will review the internal control, framework and procedures,
               particularly for the Compensation Program and the inventory o f drugs, vaccines,
               medical andveterinary equipment andother sensitive and/or expensive assets.

                Transparency andpublic information. The project will have its own website and
               relevant information about the project will be continually posted on the website.

               Intensive supervision. The project,       including procurement and financial
                management activities, will be intensively supervised bythe Bank staff.

63.     Possible Controversial Aspects. The project will support the implementation o f
necessary actions to prevent, control and respond to possible influenza pandemic. Some o f the
typical and necessary "social distancingmeasures" (such as quarantines, bans on mass gatherings
andtravel restrictions) maybe socially andpolitically controversial. Culling for outbreak control
among poultry is also likely to be controversial. Intensive and continuous dialogue i s needed
among different stakeholders. This will be supplemented by a well designed communication
strategy. A high degree o f political commitment i s needed for managing any controversies with
respect to preventing andcontrolling influenza pandemic.


4. CreditConditionsandCovenants

64.     EffectivenessConditions.

        (a) The AHITF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered, and all conditions
            precedent to its effectiveness or to the right o f the Recipient to make withdrawals
             under it (other than the effectiveness o f the Financing Agreement) have been
             fulfilled;

        (b) The Recipient has established a Project Coordination Unit, with terms o f reference
             acceptable to the Association, andwith adequate staffing and resources; and

        (c) The Recipient has prepared and adopted an Operational Manual, in form and
             substance acceptable to the Association.


                                              - 19-

65.     Disbursement Condition. There is an urgent need for GOB to finalize and approve
compensation strategy and guidelines that would provide the basis on which compensation
would be paid to the farmers. GOB also needs to work out the details o f the compensation
strategy and its operational guidelines, including eligibility o f commercial as well as backyard
poultry producers.     Some guidelines on compensation, for consideration by the GOB, are
provided in Annex 1. Finalization and approval o f compensation strategy and guidelines is a
condition for the Bank to disburse for the compensation program from the IDA credit.

66.     Covenant. The Recipient shall, no later than one month             afier the date o f credit
effectiveness, appoint two external members o f the Procurement Core Team, with terms o f
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.


                                   D. APPRAISALSUMMARY

1. Economicand FinancialAnalyses

67.     It is difficult to make accurate estimates o f the economic impact o f the project in
Bangladesh, mainly because o f lack o f scientific knowledge on the primary factors affecting the
spread o f the HPAIinhumans and the probability o f its occurrence. It i s also the case that there
are no measurable positive outcomes or benefits interms o f increased production or efficiencies
arising from the investments.       Instead there are only losses (in terms of poultry, humans,
economic assets and economic benefits) saved or prevented. While such savings do have an
economic impact, it i s impossible to calculate them accurately ex ante. This i s because the extent
of the losses `saved' cannot be quantified until they occur. Earlier outbreaks of severe human
influenza provide some background information about likely future losses. However, the data
from past pandemics i s not very reliable and does not allow for advances in modern medicine
and the impact o f globalization. What is also unknown is the severity o f any future human
influenza pandemic derived from H5N1, Moreover, since HPAI preparedness and response
projects arejust starting inmost countries, there are no indicators o f the extent o fprotection they
may provide for reducing the impact o f AI. Given this, economic analyses have been carried out
under a number of possible scenarios.

68.     Economic analyses have been conducted for the proposed Avian Influenza Preparedness
andResponse Project (AIPRP) and the Avian Influenza (AI) component o f the on-going Health,
Nutrition and Population Sector Program (HNPSP). The analyses examine economic impacts o f
AI interms o fcosts incurredwithout the AIPRP andthe AI component ofHNPSP andeconomic
impacts o f AI in terms o f benefits and costs incurred with the AIPRP and the AI component o f
HNPSP. Six different scenarios, inthe form of poultry and human "Gross Attack Rates" (GAR)
have been considered, as shown in the table below. The first three scenarios represent real case
situations inthe region, the last three scenarios are projections.




                                                - 20 -

                         PossibleGrossAttack ScenariosConsidered

                                  GrossAttack Rate(GAR) Scenarios(YO)
               Population       I          I1      I11      IV        V       VI
             Poultry            0.7       10.0     20.0    20.0      20.0     20.0
             Humans             0.0       0.1       1.o     15.0     20.0     30.0


69.     Without the AIPRP and HNPSP, it is estimated that the economic impacts will range
between US$154 million and US$1.228 billion which is approximately between 0.3% and 2.2%
o f GDP inBangladesh. Loss o f humanlife inthe worse case scenario (scenario VI) i s estimated
to be about 663,000 humandeaths.

                    EstimatedEconomicImpactofHPAIinBangladesh
                         I   GrossAttack      I
              Scenario        Rates(YO)                      Impact
                                                           As%of     I   Human
                          Poultry Humans million
                                   I             US$    II  GDP           deaths
                  I 0.7                 0.0       154        0.3            0
                 I1         10.0        0.1       203        0.4          2,000

                 Iv
                 I11        20.0        1.o       283        0.5          22,000
                            20.0       15.0       740        1.3         332,000
                 V          20.0       20.0       902        1.6         442,000
                 VI         20.0       30.0      1.228       2.2         663.000


70.     With the AIPRP, the AI component o f the HNPSP and the AI Program, in the case o f
low GARs on the poultry and human populations, the costs incurred tend to outweigh the
corresponding benefits (in terms o f net present value). However, in the event o f the GARs o f
10% in the case o f the poultry population and 1% in the case o f the human population, the
benefits incurred tend to outweigh the corresponding costs over a period o f 15 years. The
AIPRP provides benefits, especially if there is an outbreak of AI that impacts upon the poultry
population, in Bangladesh, comparable with those that have occurred in South East Asia. The
benefits of the AI component o f the HNPSP, and the AI Program as a whole, would be
considerably greater inthe event o f an impact on the humanpopulation. Details o f the economic
and financial analyses are provided inAnnex 9.


2. Technical

71.     The technical proposals for both the animal health (Avian Influenza Preparedness and
Response Project) and the human health (Avian Influenza Component of HNPSP) related AI
activities are based on a phased and multi-disciplinaryapproach. These proposals take due
cognizance o f a sound epidemiological approach to control and contain HPAIoutbreaks, and are
tailored to the prevailing conditions in Bangladesh.      The country i s currently at an inter-


                                              -21 -

pandemic phase, according to the basic WHO classification during which the priority is to be
able to detect andrespond to new outbreaks.


3. Fiduciary

72.     Financial Management. With increasing reliance on country system and shifting the
focus from creating a parallel system to using the existing public financial management (PFM)
structure, system and policies, the AI Program will be implemented within the structure o f
implementing ministries. The AIPRP will be implemented by the Department o f Livestock
(DLS) o f the Ministry o f Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL) while the Line Director -
Communicable Disease (LD-CD) o f the Ministry o f Health and FamilyWelfare (MOHFW) will
implement AI component under the on-going HNPSP. As DLS has weak institutional capacity
and little experience o fmanaging donor fundedprojects, a Project CoordinationUnit (PCU) will
be established in DLS with reassigning existing staff to oversee project implementation. The
project would provide necessary technical assistance, through both local and international
experts. LD-CD o f MOHFW has been implementing the Communicable Disease Operational
Plan under HNPSP, using the government system, its own structure and staff.               The AI
component will be implemented usingthe implementation arrangements that are already inplace
under HNPSP.

73.     DLS follows the GOB'S financial management (FM) system, including planning
budgeting, accounting, internal controls, internal audit, reporting and external audit. For
developmentprojects, there is a project accounting manual which outlines the GOB FMsystem.
This system will be followed for the AIPW. DLS has agreed to designate two full time
Accountants who will work under the overall guidance and supervision o f the Project Director.
The two FM staff will work with the core implementation team in the PCU. The team will be
assisted by the national and international experts who would provide technical support. DLS
will, in collaboration with World Bank, provide disbursement, financial management and
procurement training to its core staff who would be involved inproject management.

74.     The project has allocated financial resources to compensate the affected poultry farmers
for culled infected birds. For the management o f the compensation program, operational
guidelinesoutlining the process and operational modality for accessing the level o fcompensation
are being prepared. Appropriate ex-ante controls in the poultry culling and compensation
program will be implemented. As additional oversight, an annual operational review will be
carried out by an independent firm, acceptable to the World Bank, which will review the internal
controls, framework and procedures, particularly for the compensation program and the
inventory o f drugs, vaccines, medical and veterinary equipment and other sensitive andor
expensive assets.

75.      A control framework outlining major expenditure eligibility for the project andindicators
o f fraud, corruption and collusion and coercion has been agreed for ensuring that the framework
serves as a basis for any investigation that might be necessary as a result o f any reported
ineligible expenditure from internal and external audit or additional annual review. The
consolidated project financial Statements will be prepared by the DLS and will be audited by the
Comptroller andAuditor General (C&AG). The C&AG i s considered as independent auditor and


                                              - 22 -

acceptable to the Bank. Audit report o f the project will be submitted to the Bank within six
monthsofthe end o feach fiscal year. Financial management anddisbursement details are given
inAnnex 7.

76.     Procurement. Bangladesh has undertaken procurement reforms which is a major step
forward in improving the public procurement environment. Though key policy reform actions
have already been completed, including mandating new procurement regulations with associated
procedures and all documentations and recently the Parliament passed a procurement law,
implementation of the regulations is still a key challenge and less progress has been made in
achieving tangible outcomes on the ground. Clearly, this is only the beginning, and there are still
number o f potential challenges in cross-cutting governance, institutional, and implementation
issues, including inadequate enforcement o f regulations, inadequate adherence to the provision
o f procurement approval process, delays in contract award, ineffective contract administration,
allegations of fraud and corruption, and political interference. Considering all these factors, the
procurement under the proposed project remains a challenge requiring special measures to
address associated risks (see Annex 6 for more details).

77.     Procurement Risks and Measures: As mentioned in the risks section, the project i s
considered as a "high risk" operation from public procurement point o f view. The assessment i s
based on general environment for public procurement inthe country as well as the procurement
management capacity o f the DLS. A number o f special measures are underway in the country,
and as part o f the ongoing procurement reform, a second follow-on reform project is expected to
make the reform efforts sustainable.      Concurrently, a number o f measures are specifically
introduced inthis project to minimize procurement risks.

78.      At the project level, measures taken are: (a) a Procurement Core Team (PCT) consisting
o f at least five members, with two external independent experts included in it and recruited by
using Bank guidelines. The PCT will provide oversight o f procurement under this project for
large value contracts that are subject to prior review and will be specifically responsible for the
following: (i)   review the biddingdocuments for large contracts that are subject to prior review;
(ii) bids,evaluatebids,andpreparebidevaluationreports,alongwithrecommendations
     receive
for the award o f contract; (iii)carry out the ex-post review o f bidding procedures followed in
smaller contracts that are not subject to prior review; and (iv) make field visits to a number of
sites and check the quality o f procurement o f goods and works and performance o f the
suppliers/contractors; (b) a credible system o f handling complaints will be put in place so that
grievances are addressed in a timely manner with proper maintenance o f records; (c) disclosure
o f information - procurement plan and publication o f contract awards in the website, including
invitations to bids, status o f evaluation award and performance o f contractors, suppliers and
consultants; and (d) a risk mitigation framework to address issues relating to inappropriate
biddingpractices, including fraud and corruption.

79.      Procurement Components and Responsibility - Avian Influenza Preparedness and
Response Project: The proposed project is designed to provide assistance for AI and has three
components: Animal Health (US$16.6 million), Public Awareness and Information (US$1.9
million), and Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.5 million). Total
value o f the project i s US$21 million; total procurement o f US$16.30 million under the project


                                                - 23 -

will involve goods o f US$10.75 million; followed by consultancy services o fUS$2.38; training,
studies and workshops of US$2.45 million; and civil works o f US$0.72 million. These three
components will be implemented by the Department o f Livestock Services (DLS), under the
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL) (see Annex 6 for more details about the
procurement arrangements andthe role o f FAO).

80.    Procurement Componentsand Responsibility Avian Influenza Component of existing
                                                       -
HNPSP: The value o f the Avian Influenza Component o f the existing Health Nutrition and
Population Support Project (HNPSP, P074841) i s US$ 16 million. Avian Influenza component
will be implemented by the Ministry o f Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) through the
Director General o f Health Services (DGHS). The Line Director for Communicable Diseases in
DGHS will manage this component and, depending on the type o f activity, will liaison with Line
Directors Hospital, In-service Training and Communications.       Central Medical Stores Depot
(CMSD) will act as procurement entity for goods procurement and Public Works Department
(PWD) will be responsible for procurement o f works (see Annex 6 for more details about the
procurement arrangements andthe role o f WHO).

4. Social

81.     The main social concern i s the maintenance o f livelihoods for poultry producers,
especially sectors 3 and 4 producers, in the event o f future outbreaks o f HPAI. There are two
main ways inwhich GOB can assist small producers. The first is through the establishment o f a
compensation program that operates in a transparent and agreed way. That is to say there i s
agreement between the producers and GOB on the amount o f compensation payable for each
bird culled. Further discussion is needed between GOB and the industry to draw up
compensation payment mechanisms. The second important thing i s for all stakeholders to
develop and promote risk awareness messages that do not panic people into refusing to buy
poultryjust because o f an outbreak in some parts o f the country. Some progress has been made
on this front, but more needs to be done, especially with regardto news media. The Project will
have significant positive social impact by protecting human lives through HPAI early warning,
prevention and containment, improved poultry farming practices, increased public awareness o f
HPAIand improvedhygiene and food preparation practices andwaste management.


5. Environmental

82.     The Project i s assessedas a Category B (partial assessment) project based on the type o f
interventions proposed under the project and the nature and magnitude o f potential
environmental impacts. The project is likely to have limited adverse environmental impacts as
the interventions are largely on public sector capacity building and improved readiness for
dealing with outbreaks o f AI in domestic poultry. These prevention focused activities are
expected to have positive environmental impacts because project investments in facilities,
equipment, laboratories and training will improve the effectiveness and safety o f existing AI
handling and testing procedures by meeting international standards established by OIE. This
would be reinforced by the mainstreaming o f environmental safeguards into the protocols and
procedures for culling and disposal o f animals inthe event o f anAI outbreak, decontamination o f
production facilities and laboratory biosafety. However, adverse environmental health impacts,


                                               - 24 -

mainly inadvertent spread o f HPAI, could occur when an emergency operation involves
containment o f HPAIoutbreaks through quarantine, isolation and stampingout actions andwhen
relevant mitigation measures are not inplace. Therefore, precautions have been taken under the
Project to avoid or minimize such impacts by integrating environmental and public health safety
aspects in the preparatioddesign and implementation o f the project. The potential adverse
environmental impacts identified above will be mitigated by integrating environmental and
public safety aspects in all stages o f the project. The Government has prepared guidelines for
safe culling, transport and safe disposal o f carcasses, which will be supported under the project.
The project will provide training to all relevant staff for implementation o fthe Guidelines as well
as infrastructureneededinthe event o f an outbreak.
6. Safeguard Policies

83.     Environmental Assessment i s the only safeguard policy triggered under this project,
considering the scope o f activities financed under the project. There are no Social Safeguards
triggered by the project because there will be no land acquisition, voluntary or involuntary,
therefore there would be no displacement o fpeople. Ifany land is required, either temporarily or
permanently, for burial pits for mass disposal of deadbirds, or for constructiono fincinerators or
for open burning o f carcasses, or for the construction o f laboratories andor other medical or
veterinary facilities, such land will be provided by the Government. Such lands will be free o f
squatters or other encumbrances.        An Environmental and Social Safeguards Management
Framework (ESSMF) and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), that outlines the
measures proposed to address all potential adverse environmental and social impacts, has been
prepared and will serve as a guide to ensure that the project will not result in any potential
indirect andor long-term impacts (see h e x 8 for details). The preparation o f the guidelines
has involved an evaluation of suitable alternatives for safe culling, transport and particularly for
safe disposal o f carcasses.     The project will finance the implementation o f the selected
alternatives, according to the EMP. Inthe case o f the AI Component o f HNPSP, a Health Care
Waste Management Plan already exists under the HNPSP and this will form the basis o f
environmental management for avian influenza activities as well (no separate EMPwill therefore
beprepared for the humanhealthcomponent).


    Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                   Yes      N o

   Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01)                                           [XI      [I
   Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                   [I       [XI
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      [I       [XI
    Cultural Property (OPN 11-03,being revised as OP 4.11)                        [I       [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                          [I       [XI
    Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10)                                                [I       [XI
   Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                            [I       [XI
    Safety o f Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                   [I       [XI
    Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP 7.60)                                          [I       [XI
    Projects on International Waterways (OPBP 7.50)                               [I       [XI




                                                - 2 5 -

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

84.    There are no policy exceptions required. The project meets the regional implementation
readiness requirements.  The General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the
UNDB online. Procurement plan and the implementation program for first year (year 1) has
already beenprepared. DLSis inthe process o f establishing the PCU. A preliminarydraft of the
Avian Influenza PreventionProgram by GOB has already beenprepared. The draft Operational
Manual and draft Compensation Guidelines have been prepared and are being updated. The
National Communication Strategy and Action Plan for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
Influenza (2007-2008) has been prepared and approved by GOB.




                                            - 26 -

                                           Bangladesh
                 Avian Influenza PreparednessandResponse Project

                            Annex 1: Country andSector Background


                                            Background


1.      With a population o f approximately 145 million persons and a land area o f 147, 570 sq.
km, Bangladesh is one o f the most densely populated countries inthe world. About 75% o f the
population lives in rural areas. It i s also among the less developed countries, with a per capita
annual income o f less than US $500. These factors have important implications for the health
situation inthe country. Average life expectancy i s 62 years, infant mortality is 61 per 1000 live
births, and annual population growth rate i s 1.6 per cent. The ratio o f physicians to population i s
only 2.6 per 10,000 persons.

2.     Highpopulation density andlow socio-economic status are associated with a highburden
o f infectious diseases, and Bangladesh i s no exception to this rule. As one example, the annual
incidence o f tuberculosis is 229 cases per 100,000 persons, one o f the highest rates inthe world.
Should the country experience an influenza pandemic, it would likely result in high morbidity
and mortality and would be difficult to control. The highpopulation density would ensure rapid
spread throughout the country. Therefore, it i s important to take steps to quickly recognize the
presence o f avian influenza inthe country, identify the subtype and take appropriate measures to
mitigate its impact on domestic poultry as well on public health.

                              Avian Influenzaandthe Poultry Sector

3.      Bangladesh experienced H5N1 outbreak from Februaryto May 2007. The problem i s not
yet over. However, to date, there have beenno reports o f HPAI (H5N1) infection inhumans in
Bangladesh. Many o f the recognized risk factors, listedbelow, are present inBangladesh:
                 0  224 known species o fmigratorybirds;
                 0  21 o f the migratory birdspecies are knownto carry H5N1virus;
                 0  Porous international boundaries with neighbouring countries (India and
                    Myanmar) that have had outbreaks;
                 0  Numerous live birdmarketswhere mixingo f species occurs;
                 0  Numerous and extensive water surfaces, ponds and lakes;
                    Significant domestic duck population; and
                 0  Numerous small-holder and semi-intensive poultry production units with
                    minimalbio-security.

4.      Some observers consider that the lack o f intensive duck rearing inthe country may partly
explain why there have been no outbreaks o f H5N1 prior to February 2007, as intensive duck
rearing is associated with the disease in a number o f Asian countries. It may also be that the



                                               - 27 -

resting sites o f most migratory birds, with the exception o f the northeast region, are in remote
coastal areas where there is little poultry raising.

5.     The national poultry flock i s estimated by the Department of Livestock Services (DLS)
(2004-2005) to contain 183.45 million chickens and 37.28 million ducks. Approximately 50% of
chickens are kept by backyard owners invillages. The remaining 50% are raisedinan estimated
100,000 semi-intensivehtensive commercial enterprises.            Main features o f HPAI are
summarized in Attachment 1. Compensation should be seen as an important tool in avian
influenza surveillance and control.      However, establishment o f compensation program i s a
complex subject where specific factors need to be considered. Some suggestions are provided in
Attachment 2,

                       Characteristicsof mainpoultryproductionsectors

6.      As shown below (originally from FAO), the characteristics o f main poultry production
sectors vary a great deal in Southeast Asia. InBangladesh, about 50% o fpoultry production i s in
production sectors 1, 2 and 3 and the remaining 50% in production sector 4; whereas duck
production would fall under sector 5:




                                                 - 28 -

                 MainAgencies Concernedwith AvianInfluenzain Poultry


7.      Within the Ministry o f Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL), the two main agencies
concerned with Avian Influenza (AI) are the Department o f Livestock Services (DLS) and the
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI) at Savar, just outside Dhaka. The DLS i s
headed by a Director General. It has five operational divisions: (i)Animal Health and
Administration; (ii)  Research, Training and Evaluation; (iii)     Extension; (iv) Officers Training
Institute; and (v) Production. Each division i s headed by a director. It is envisaged that all
divisions, except the Production division, will be involved inproject implementation. The DLS
has 5 Divisional Livestock Offices, 64 District Livestock Offices, 464 Upazila Offices, one
Central Disease InvestigationLaboratory (CDIL) and 7 Field Disease Investigation Laboratories
(FDIL). It has a large staff compliments with 2-3 Upazila Livestock Officers (including
veterinarians) and support staff in each Upazila. The functions o f the Upazila Veterinarians
include disease surveillance and reporting. The DLS facilities are in very poor shape centrally
and in the districts, and are totally unable to undertake any avian influenza disease diagnosis
work at present. The BLRIwas established in 1985. It i s a semi-autonomous agency within the
MOFL.Ithas five researchdivisions: (i) Production; (ii) Production; (iii)
                                          Animal                     Poultry                Animal
Health; (iv) Systems Research; and (v) Goat and Sheep Production. The Poultry Production
division has received considerable donor support in recent years and now has laboratories
equipped to undertake poultry disease diagnosis. Both agencies suffer from a serious shortage o f
operating funds. For example, the FDILs are reported to receive on average Tk5000 (US$72.0)
annuallyfor laboratory analysis.

                                    The PublicHealthSector

8.      A multi-tieredhealth care system is present in Bangladesh. The primary level is the
Upazila, or sub-district level. EachUpazila has a population o f about 300-400 thousand persons.
Health care personnel at this level include physicians, nurses, and allied health professionals.
There is a minimum31bedin-patient health complex ineach o fthe 472 Upazilas. There are also
health posts throughout the Upazila which offer simpler services for persons who cannot access
the main health complex, and community health workers are present throughout the country.
The intermediate level o f the health care system i s the district level. InBangladesh, there are 64
districts which are grouped into six divisions (regions). Each district has a hospital which offers
a range o f primary and specialty services. In addition to the hospital, the district health center
has a disease surveillance unit which collects and integrates data from the Upazilas and lower
sub-units. Districts also have epidemiologic investigative teams (also known as rapid response
teams). The highest level o f the health care system consists o f a national network o f medical
college hospitals and specialized referral hospitals. For avian influenza, the Asthma Hospital in
Dhaka has beendesignated as the national referral center. Private medical centers and hospitals
are also present in Bangladesh. Outside o f the major urban centers, these hospitals are usually
small clinics with minimal in-patient facilities.    However, within the urban centers there are
larger hospitals which can offer services at international standards.

9.      A variety o f disease monitoring systems is present inBangladesh. The foundation is the
management information system (MIS), which collects data on a number o f diseases and


                                                - 29 -

conditions from the public sector medical facilities. Among these conditions are important
infectious conditions, including respiratory diseases. The diagnoses included in the M I S are
largely based on clinical impression and, therefore, are o f limitedreliability. This i s due to a lack
o fwidely-utilized standardized definitions and specificity o f the diagnosis. MIS data submission
i s variable, as is collection, analysis, and dissemination o f the information. While the MIS data
are useful for trend analysis and prioritization, this system lacks the timeliness and accuracy
necessary for an active public health response to emerging problems. The MIS i s supplemented
by a number o f stand-alone (or vertical) programs, such as HIV and tuberculosis. There is an
extensive network for collection o f information on vaccine-preventable epidemiology conditions,
including acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) and poliomyelitis. Data collected within these vertical
systems is likely to be more accurate than that found inMIS, as there is more financial support,
standardized case definitions are used and there is confirmation by the laboratory.

10.      National disease data are centralized at the Institute for Epidemiology and Disease
Control Research (IEDCR), part o f the Directorate General o f Health Services (DGHS).
However, vertical program-specific data are collected outside o f IEDCR. A list of reportable
conditions i s maintained by the government. IEDCR has established a network o f sentinel sites
for respiratory diseases but there i s little financial support. Review o f data from the existingsites
indicates that the network i s currently o f limited value, as few cases are reported.

11.      IEDCR also serves as the National Reference Laboratory for infectious diseases. Due to
limitedfinancial support andpoor facilities, current diagnostic capacity at IEDCR is low. This is
particularly true in the area o f virology, which is crucial to rapid identification o f influenza.
Below the national level, limited microbiology i s done.            District level facilities do have
microbiology capability, but this appears to be underutilized and diagnostic accuracy i s difficult
to evaluate. Most o f these facilities, even at the Upazila level, can do basic parasitic microscopy,
gram stains, acid fast stains for tuberculosis, and have serology kits for conditions such as
hepatitis B and C.

 12.     The International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) i s an
international health research institution located in Dhaka. With the changing trend in the world
scenario inhealth andpopulation over the years, ICDDR,B has expanded its activities to address
some o f the most critical global health needs. Incollaboration with partners from academic and
research institutions throughout the world, the Center conducts research, training and extension
activities as well as program-based activities.          ICDDR,B receives some support from the
Government o f Bangladesh and i s located adjacent to IEDCR. It has diagnostic capacity for a
variety o f infectious conditions, including respiratory diseases such as influenza. ICDDR,B also
runs active disease surveillance sites that monitor respiratory diseases, andhas set up a network
of sentinel sites throughout Bangladesh for encephalitis surveillance. These sentinel sites are
largely based at public sector medical colleges.          ICDDR,B has been collecting respiratory
samples for influenza virus isolation, but sends the strains outside the country for further
analysis, including influenza A subtype. ICDDR,B has received outside financial support to
upgrade their facilities to bio-safety level 3 (BSL-3) and to expand the sentinel site network to
monitor for influenza.




                                                   - 30 -

13.     Unusual disease circumstances or outbreaks are investigated by a network of rapid
response teams. Each district has at least one rapid response team composed o f specially trained
clinicians, microbiologists, sanitarians, and other skills, as needed. These teams can receive
back-up from national-level rapid response teams, when requested or when deemed to be
necessary. National teams can also receive support from personnel at ICDDR,B.        The rapid
response teams and senior personnel from the districts have received training at IEDCR on avian
influenza monitoring, investigation, and control. Personal protective equipment (PPE) has been
obtained at the national level for the members of the rapid response teams to be able to safely
conduct field investigations o fpossiblehumandisease due to avian influenza.




                                               - 3 1 -

                                                                                    Attachment 1

                                   MainFeatures of H5N1

1.      Experience gained, duringthe current outbreaks o f HPAIdue to H5N1,in other countries
o f the region provides some practical insights into the behaviour o f the disease in different
environments. The key features, based on a number o f observations by veterinarians, which may
helpindevelopingappropriate actionplansandoperationalmanuals, are listedbelow:

               The initial introduction o f virus into a previously unaffected country i s usually
               through virus shedding migratory waterfowl. Migratory waterfowl typically
               appear clinically normal but are carriers o f the virus. Recent evidence suggests
               that some o f these birds are more susceptible to the virus thanhadbeen previously
               thought and that they are in fact dying o f it when they bring it into a country. In
               some incidents, the virus may have been introduced by the importation o f affected
               birds, typically day-old-chicks (DOCS). As there is only limited importation o f
               poultry into Bangladesh (except for disease-free accredited grand-parent stock
               showing improved genetic material), it i s most likely that migratory waterfowl are
               the main danger; hence the need for active surveillance o f wild birds and effective
               quarantine procedures.

               Once present within a country, local spread is probably due largely to the
               movement o f poultry through the local marketing system, hence the need for
               effective movement control.

               The main method o f virus spread between birds is through the faecal-oral route.
               Thus spread is far quicker in birds on deep-litter floors, than in cages, or free
               range birds.

               The main disease outbreaks have occurred inSector 3 and some insector 2 farms,
               emphasizing the importance o f improving bio-security inthese enterprises.

               Outbreaks in backyard flocks (scavenging birds) in villages appear to be
               infrequent but catastrophic to the local people. However, from a national disease
               control perspective, they are largely locally contained, as these poultry flocks are
               generally for local (family, village) consumption. Village flocks are generally
               self-replacing with minimal introductions from outside sources and limited
               outward movement to markets.

               To have the opportunity to spread disease, the virus thus depends on dense
               concentrations o f susceptible birds in establishments with poor bio-security and
               management.

               The virus is highly susceptible to heat, dryness and disinfection. Thus even
               minimal attention to cleanliness and disinfection at the fadvillage level can have
               a pronounced beneficial effect.


                                               - 32 -

             The domestic duck is very critical for the establishment o f HPAI in a country. It
             appears to be the link betweenmigratory waterfowl and domestic chickens. Ducks
             are susceptible to infection but are less affectedby disease andthus provide both a
             vehicle and possibly a virus-multiplier in local situations. Countries with a
             significant HPAI problem also have intensive duck production systems (such as
             Vietnam and Indonesia).       Countries with few ducks (such as Lao PDR and
             Cambodia) are less affected. The domestic duck population in Bangladesh i s
             mainly in the Northeast and in the village backyard situation with little evidence
             o f intensive commercial production.

             Fears have been expressed about the role o f pigs as the first mammalian species to
             be affected and provide the conduit for the development o f a humanpandemic.
             There are insignificant numbers o fpigs inBangladesh.

             Vaccination has been usefully applied only in situations where there i s a high
             incidence o f disease and i s used to reduce prevalence to a levelwhere other forms
             o f control will be effective. Being a killed vaccine which has to be physically
             injected into each bird on a number o f occasions, vaccination programs are
             labour-intensive and expensive. Clinically normal vaccinated birds may still shed
             virus and mask the disease. After sero-conversion, vaccinated birds will interfere
             with subsequent surveys designed to prove absence. Vaccination is effective only
             where a significant number o f the susceptible population is vaccinated (>80%). It
             i s understood that vaccination against HPAI is not allowed in Bangladesh, at
             present.

2.   All the evidence available indicates that there has been HSNIoutbreak indomestic poultry
inBangladesh from February to May 2007. This has been the case for both commercial farms
andthe backyardpoultry indifferent partsofthe country. The problem is not yet over.




                                              - 33 -

                                                                                    Attachment 2

                                          Compensation



1.     Compensation should be seen as a tool in disease surveillance and control. Where a
disease spreads rapidly and causes highmortality and morbidity, and its control is a public good
then it becomes very important that (a) there i s early detection o f outbreaks; and (b) producers
fully participate inany control measures that are introduced. The only effective way to eradicate
the causative virus o f HPAI in infected flocks o f poultry is by destroying and disposing o f all
infected and in-contact birds. To encourage farmers and owners o f infected poultry to notify the
suspected presence o f HPAI, it is generally acknowledged that timely and adequate
compensation must be available to farmers. If compensation i s not available, there i s a highrisk
that producers with affected birds will attempt to market their affected poultry through local
agents and markets, thus rapidly spreading the disease to other areas and flocks. Any
undervaluation o f the positive role o f compensation will encourage producers to seek more
attractive ways o f avoiding the costs associated with reporting disease and/or participation in
control measures.      However, establishment o f compensation program and its operational
guidelines are complex where specific factors need to be considered. The following are some
ideas to consider:

2.     It is essential that, in the likelihood o f a need for culling, poultry producers know in
advance that some compensation will be paid. In neighbouring countries, at the time o f the
outbreak the government announced that compensation would be paid before the birds were
culled. Compensation would, however, only be paid for poultry culled and killed on known
infected places, and poultry culled and killedwithin the infected zone (e.g. quarantined areas). A
case can also bemade for compensation o f eggs and feed destroyed. Compensation should not be
paid for birds that have already died, or for disposable items (curtains, feeders, temporary
structures). Ideally the agency that i s responsible for reportingthe outbreak and recording the
number o fbirds culled should not be the agency that makes compensation payments.

3.     Ideally, producers should receive 100% o f the market price immediately after poultry are
killed. However, it i s very difficult to justify paying the full market price as this itself varies
quite considerably. Inpractice, countries inthe region have paid compensation equal to 75% o f
the market pricejust before the outbreak. Alternatively, compensation can be based on payment
of a percentage o f the production costs (variable costs, not fixed costs) plus a small amount for
loss of profit, or replacement with comparable birds. The latter i s not usually popular, especially
ifaproducerdoesnotwant to go backintopoultry.

4.     InIndia, a flat rate was paid, dependingonthe age ofthe birds:Rs 10for birdsunderthree
weeks; Rs 30 for broilers, Rs 40 for layers. This was a little more than the estimated wholesale
price.   It was paid in cash to the backyard poultry households at the time o f culling and
undoubtedly helpedproducers bringforward birds to be culled.




                                                - 3 4 -

5.      InPakistan, producers were paid 75% of the costs of production (DOCs/feed/medicines)
up to the time of culling plus a small amount for labodprofit. This was agreed between the
Government o fPakistan andthe PakistanPoultry Association.

6.      In Turkey and Vietnam, producers were paid 75% of the ex-farm price at the time of
culling. Fundingfor payment o f compensation comes either directly from government resources,
or partly fiom government and partly from a levee raised by the national poultry association(s).
The use o f insurance to cover livestock loses has generally not worked in the region. It i s very
important that the Government o f Bangladesh identifies a reliable and sustainable source o f
fundingto pay for compensation, as it is too riskyto rely on donor-funded initiatives.




                                               - 35 -

                                                    Bangladesh
                    Avian Influenza Preparednessand ResponseProject

                               Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

1.       The results framework and monitoring for the avian influenza program i s divided into
two parts. First, the results framework andmonitoring for the Avian InfluenzaPreparedness and
Response Project refers to the new project only and will be implemented by the M&E
arrangements in the Project Coordination Unit for AIPRP. Second, the results framework and
monitoring for the Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP refers to the existingproject only and
will be carriedout bythe existing M&E arrangements for HNPSP.

A. Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject(AIPRP):

      ProjectDevelopment                           OutcomeIndicator                 Use of OutcomeInformation
             Objective
To minimize the threat posedby       Evidence o f improved effectiveness o f       To determine whether or not the
HPAIinfection and other              participating animal and public health        project objectives has been
zoonoses indomestic poultry and      services inresponding to the risk o f an      achieved.
to prepare for, control, and         HPAIoutbreak andor pandemic:
respond to an influenza                  National integrated preparedness,
pandemic and other infectious             control and response plans prepared
disease emergencies inhumans.             and acceptedby FAO, WHO and OIE;
                                          Contained and diminishingpattern o f
                                          H P A I infection inpoultry.
          Intermediate                                Intermediate                        Use of Intermediate
                                                   OutcomeIndicator                      OutcomeMonitoring
I.AnimalHealthComponent
ComponentLA:Nationalpolicy           Evidence o f timely and satisfactory          To ensure adequacy o fpolicies
framework defined and national       progress toward delivery o f Component 1.A    and actions to the changing
strategy developed to prevent,       outputs, as compared to the original plan,    situation.
control, and eradicate HPAI          including specific indicators as follows:
among the animal population.              National AI StrategyPlanadoptedby
                                          the government and updated
                                          periodically;
                                          Operational Manual for the Plan
                                          conforms with the guidelines o f
                                          FAO/OIE and GPAI;
                                          Riskcommunication strategy approved
                                          and adopted by the Government;
                                          Compensation strategy, including its
                                          operational guidelines, for the affected
                                          poultry farmers approved and
                                          operational.
Component1.B: Animal disease         Evidence o f timely and satisfactory          To assessthe level o freadiness
surveillance and diagnostic          progress toward delivery o f Component 1.B for disease surveillance and
capacities strengthened and          outputs, including specific indicators as     diagnosis.
training o f the veterinary services follows:
designed and completed

                                  e   Assessment o fveterinary services
                                      completed and development plan
                                      prepared;
                                  e   Laboratory equipment and materials
                                      are procured, distributed and installed;
                                      Operational Manual updatedon a
                                      regular basis and strictly practiced;
                                  0   Staff i s trained insurveillance and
                                      diagnostic methods;
                                  0   Reporting and reaction time for
                                      suspected cases o f AI is reduced to the
                                      minimally acceptable levels;
                                  0   Average monitoringcoverage o fhigh
                                      risk areas.
Component1.C: Outbreak            Evidence oftimely and satisfactory              To ensure satisfactory and
Containment Planprepared and      progress toward delivery o f Component 1.C      timely containment o fthe
activated, as needed, inresponse  outputs, including specific indicators as       infection.
to AI outbreaks.                  follows:
                                  0    Periodical/annual desk top and field
                                       exercises organized to simulate the
                                       possible events o f outbreak;
                                       Emergency suppliesprocured and
                                       available at strategic locations inthe
                                       field;
                                       Ifappropriate,ringvaccinationaround
                                       infectedareas completed;
                                  0    Culling, disposal and disinfection
                                       activities completed, as needed;
                                  0    Compensation providedto poultry
                                       owners rapidly and ina monitorable
                                       way;
                                  e    Movement control and quarantine
                                       measures are effectively enforced in


Component11: Public              IEvidence oftimely and satisfactory             [To verify satisfactory andtimely
inforktion onthe recommended      progress toward delivery o f Component I1       progress in, or completion of,
practices for control and         outputs, including specific indicators as       public awareness and
eradication o fHPAIamong key      follows:                                        information activities.
target groups developed, tested,  0    National communication strategy for
and disseminated.                      pandemic influenza operationalized
                                       and materials and messages prepared
                                       and disseminated.
                                   e    100%oftargeted commercial poultry
                                       farmers adopt recommended practices;
                                   e    80% o f targeted backyard poultry
                                       farmers adopt recommended practices;
                                   e    80% o ftargeted people handling live
                                       poultry birds andprocessors are aware
                                        o f hazards associatedwithHPAI;
                                   0    80% o ftargeted consumers o f poultry
                                       products are aware o f hazard associated
                                        with HPAI;
                                   0    80% of targetedjournalists are aware
                                        o f goodpractices for reporting on


                                                       - 37 -

                                        HPAI;
                                        50 % o fmedia outlets producing
                                        quality reports on HPAI.
111. ImplementationSupport am Monitoringand EvaluationComponent
Component 1II.A:                    Evidence o f timely and satisfactory          Indicators will allow for the
Coordination and                    progress toward delivery o f Component        verification o f satisfactory and
implementation o fproject           1II.Aoutputs, including these indicators:     timely progress inprogram
activities carried out, as planned.     Programreports, financial monitoring,     implementation, coordination
                                        procurement and disbursementreports,      and management.
                                        audits, management and financial
                                        reports prepared and submitted
                                        periodically.
Component 1II.B: Coordination       Evidence o f timely and satisfactory          Data collected through M&E
and management of timely M&E        progress toward delivery o f Component        activities will be key for defining
activities carried out ina          1II.Boutputs, including these indicators:     what programadjustments are
professional manner, as planned.                                                  needed.
                                    0   Baseline developed for monitoring and
                                        evaluating Project impact.
                                    e   Methodology defined andmonitoring
                                        and evaluationperiodically undertaken.

NOTE: Shouldany disease outbreak occur duringproject implementation(avian influenzaor another
            communicable disease), the responseof the systemwill be examined for monitoring results and
            to ensure that lessonslearned will be incorporated during further implementationof this project.

B. Avian InfluenzaComponentof HNPSP'

       ProjectDevelopment                          OutcomeIndicator                     Use of OutcomeInformation
            Objective
To minimize the global threat       Evidence o f improved effectiveness o f             To determine whether or not
posedby HPAIinfection and           participating animal andpublic health services in the project objective has been
other zoo noses indomestic          responding to the risk o f an HPAI outbreak         achieved.
poultry and to prepare for,         and/or pandemic:
control, andrespond to an               National integrated preparedness, control
influenza pandemic and other             andresponseplans prepared and accepted by
infectious diseaseemergencies in        FAO, WHO and OIE;
humans.                                  Contained and diminishing pattern o f HPAI
                                         infection inpoultry.




 1HNPSP is under implementation since July 2005 and i s scheduled to close on December 31,2010.


                                                       - 38 -

          Intermediate            I                   Intermediate                    I     Use of Intermediate
            Outcome                                OutcomeIndicator                        OutcomeMonitoring

4 natiooalprogramimplemented            90% o f sentinel sites (i)submittingweekly    ITo verify satisfactory and
for the identification, early           reports on ILIincidence to the national        timely progress in, or
warning, prevention,                    surveillance unit on time; (ii)collecting and  completion of component
:ontainment and control o fH P A I      testing at least five samples per month for    activities.
inthe humanhealth sector.               influenza; and (iii) submittingsamples to
                                        IEDCRfor definitive influenza testing.
                                        At least 100influenza-related investigations
                                        done annually by district and national rapid
                                        response teams; 80% o f these investigations
                                        meet objective threshold standards o f quality
                                        (defined by WHO), as evidenced inwritten
                                        reports.
                                        10% o f targeted health care workforce with
                                        `adequate' case managementknowledge, as
                                        defined by (i) general knowledge o f
                                        diagnosis; (ii) use ofpersonal
                                                        proper
                                        protective equipmen; and (iii)  appropriate
                                        use of antiviral medications, measured by
                                        post-training test results and direct
                                        observation duringregional capacity
                                        assessments.
                                        80% o ftargeted district hospitals have
                                        functioning isolation units with at least 25
                                        sets o f personal protective equipment, 25
                                        treatment courses o f oseltamivir, and
                                        disinfection supplies.


NOTE: Should any disease outbreak occur duringproject implementation (avian influenza or another
            communicable disease), the response o f the health system will be examined for monitoring
            results and to ensure that lessons learned will be incorporated during further implementationo f
            this project.




                                                        - 39 -

n




     =3 s0
     x

     3"       0
              d

     x
     P
     p bo

          d




    8            48   48
a,    e,    W

3
2         02




                 0    0

   g
    m  gE: sm   s m
            L-    L-




P
3  -g  s   s    g
3   m    m
        b   0
            m     m

    g           s
    m             m
                 hl




tl
5                       0

    0    0  0    0

93




        g      g    g
          53   53   53




g       g      g  g
v,        $1   $1  $1




0   0 0   0    0  0

                          0    0

                   v!
                   EI   v!EI   v!
                               EI




                   3x8  3i3          38
                                     x



                   W      v,   v,    v,




             gm         g     g
                          W    00



                   g$1  s
                        3     g
                               W




  *B         z     s    g     g      g
                   10
                   F    d     d      d



  *B         z     s
                   2:   s           s
                         10  s
                              10     10
                        N     N     N

  z          z     g    s    s      s
                   N    2     $1     $1




   0               0    0    0      0
        I
v1
L
0
c)


.I
a
C
Y
3
gY
0

                 5!3
                 d
                 BE!
                 v)




                 &




      rg   \o




     g     s
      \o   \o
           0




      0    0     0      0 0

E
c,
0
at!fi
W




       0    0

3   3




    32s          3
      :  p a     3
          w c    0
                 N
                 e
                 x   \o
                    d
         p a     w
          w c    cc
                 3

                 0
                 Q
                 3
                 a
                 Q
                 a




                 P
                 x
                 v)
                 3
                .I
                 v)

                 3
                 3

                        Px




                        0
                        0
                        3




                        Px



                        '3>
                        '8
                        02
I I     I
              g
              d         .4
                        m
                        b
   E     d
         a              0;
                        0
                        0
         vl        s
                   m    N
         N              P
                        x
                   3




         0    0    0
        I

               3
               3
               0
               r4

    g g
     n
      v)       P
               x

    " 2
      W




               P
               x




               P
               x




    3

E
c,
0

3
H
e
2
c,
V
0




            I -

                                         Bangladesh
                Avian Influenza Preparednessand ResponseProject

                             Annex 3: DetailedProjectDescription


1.     The purpose o f this annex is to describe in detail the two parts o f the proposed AI
Program in Bangladesh: (a) the Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (AIPRP);
the Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP. The AIRPR project has three components: (i)
animal health; (ii)public awareness and information; and (iii)implementation support and
monitoring & evaluation. The Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP, on the other hand, has
three sub-components: (i)enhancing public health program planning and coordination; (ii)
strengthening national public health surveillance systems; and (iii)strengthening health care
system preparedness andresponse capacity.


                   1. Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject


I.AnimalHealthComponent

2.     This component has six sub-components, each with a number o f different activities.
Overall responsibility for the component lies with the Ministry o f Fisheries and Livestock but it
would be implemented by the Department o f Livestock Services (DLS). The sub-component that
deals with migratory birds will be implemented by DLS, in collaboration the Department of
Forest under the Ministryo f Environment and Forest (MOEF). A description o f the main sub-
components i s provided below. Throughout the development o f this project, care was taken to
ensure that it complemented the GOB'S National Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan (NAIP). To assist inimmediate implementation and
continuing progress, an international animal health expert with experience inPA1control will
be recruited for the first 12 months, with repeated visits for at atleast 3 months in each o f the
following years. To ensure long-term sustainability and effective utilisation o f these inputs, it is
imperative that DLS receives adequate financial and personnel support from the GOB at the
beginning, during and at the conclusiono f the project.

A. EnhancingPreventionandPreparedness Capability

Al. AdaptingNationalPolicyFramework

a. Review of nationalpolicies in the light of International Standards (OIE)

3.     As with all countries, the official policies o f the GOB for the control o f diseases in
livestock need to be continually reviewed. Provision o f internationaltechnical assistanceto assist
with this review is included to assess the appropriateness and effectiveness of policies as they



                                               49

apply to HPAIspecifically and to livestock disease control ingeneral. Inparticular, assessments
need to be undertaken on the current legislative support and legal status o f all activities that will
be necessary to undertake an effective disease control and eradication program. This activity
should be undertaken as early as possible in the project (year 1) and be facilitated by the
appropriate internationally recognised UN agency for implementing livestock disease control
programs (Le. FAO).

6. Evaluation of national veterinary services

4.      To meet international standards set by the OIE, the National Veterinary Services need to
develop and document appropriate procedures and standards for the implementation and
management o f animal health measures and international veterinary certification activities. OIE
has developed an instrument to assist the National Veterinary Services in carrying-out a self-
evaluation and to establish their current level of performance, form a shared vision with the
private sector, establish priorities, and facilitate strategic planning, entitled "Performance, Vision
and Strategy for Veterinary Services".       This instrument should be used for the evaluation of
National Veterinary Services inBangladesh which would be supportedunder the project.

5.      Initial assessment o f National Veterinary Services indicates that there are relatively
adequate staff numerically at all levels but they lack the resources to undertake field activities
and had limited understanding o f avian influenza. To ensure adequate and effective actions,
there is an urgent need to develop and produce Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for all
activities, both in the field and laboratory.       A good start has been made by DLS with the
production o f a draft document entitled "Avian Influenza Prevention Program". However, this
needs to be reviewed and expanded. The internal self-review should be undertaken by senior
officers o f the DLS, as soon as possible, to assess the current status andidentify weaknesses.

6.       To assist the GOB review national policies, evaluate veterinary services and develop
effective SOPS, international experts are required to work in close collaboration with the DLS.
This activity should also be undertaken as early as possible in the project (year 1) and be
facilitated by the appropriate internationally recognised UN agency for implementing livestock
disease control programs (i.e. FAO).

c. Review of national compensationpolicy

7.       Containment o f HPAIin an infected place (farm or village) is essential to prevent spread
to adjacent areas. To be effective, it relies on early detection and reporting which depends on an
adequate incentive for farmers to report sick poultry quickly. An adequate compensation i s an
important element o f this strategy. Initial steps have been taken to develop and establish a
realistic, practical and effective compensation policy and to identify a reliable and sustainable
source o f fhding. To encourage progress in developing this policy, the DLS was providedwith
a copy o f suggested guidelines recently prepared by the Agriculture and Rural Development
Department (ARD)o f the World Bank. The project would support a national consultant, familiar
with all aspects ofpoultry production inBangladesh, to consider these guidelines, adapt them to
the unique and specific local conditions within Bangladesh and finalise this policy. For effective
preparation to deal with outbreaks o f HPAI in Bangladesh, it would be highly desirable for this
specific activity to be implemented duringyear 1o fproject implementation.


                                                    50

A2. ImprovingPreventionandContingencyPlanning

a. Testing of national emergency contingencyplanfor HPAI

8.      With technical assistance from FA0 and WHO, Bangladesh has prepared a National
Avian Influenza and HumanPandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan(NAIP). The
Plan covers planning and coordination, surveillance and early warning, prevention and control,
sector response and risk communication. However, representatives o f the private sector and
NGOs indicated that they were not involved inthe preparation o f the draft plan. The National
Poultry Producers Association has some 25,000 members who obviously have a vested interest
in preventing the introduction o f HPAIinto Bangladesh and should intimately associated with
any and all aspects of a national control program should the disease occur. The largenumber o f
NGOs in Bangladesh i s intimately associated with the backyard poultry production systems o f
the rural poor (through the micro-credit programs) in villages as it provides a direct contribution
to food security and poverty alleviation. Experience gained with HPAIin many countries, and
with other livestock diseases, underlines the absolute necessity for involving the private sector,
NGOs and community organisations inplanningand implementation. The DLS i s strongly urged
to correct this anomaly.

9.      Once all parties agree on the plan, it should be tested in simulation exercises to identify
any shortfalls. The first exercise should be heldwithin all levels o f the Animal Health Division
o f the DLS, as the lead agency for disease control in livestock. A randomly selected location in
Bangladesh would be identified as the place o f a "phantom" outbreak o f HPAI and the plan
swung into action. Subsequent exercises should then involve other relevant sectors. Problems
and shortfalls thus identifiedshouldbe addressedandcorrected before a repeat exercise at a later
date. Project funds have been allocated to run2 simulation exercises (during first year). Lessons
learnt from these would then be applied inrunning subsequent exercises each year o f the project.
When the DLS is confident o f the effectiveness o f their plan, consideration should be given to
invitingindependentobservers from neighbouring countries (andFAO) to attend the last couple
o f exercises to assess their effectiveness inlight o f regional andinternational standards.

b. Update of veterinary services on latest Information about disease control

10.      To establish and maintain national cohesion and integration o f activities between all
sectors and staff working on HPAIwithin Bangladesh, it will be necessary to update veterinary
staff on the latest information on HPAI. These one-day meetings, to be held in each o f the 7
FDIL locations for maximum coverage and attendee convenience, should include people from
the private and public sectors o f veterinary services, universities and NGOs. To establish and
maintain contacts with people working on HPAI within the South Asian region, it will be
necessary to invite an international regional expert (from FAO) to provide veterinarians and staff
working directly inthe HPAIprogram with exposure to latest developments. The project would
support this series o f 7 conferences to be held duringthe first year. For economy andmaximum
utilisation o f the international expert, the one-day conferences should be held in sequence on
alternate days with the international expert attending each o f these conferences.



                                                  51

B. Strengthening Disease Surveillance and Diagnostic Capacity

11.     Strengthening surveillance for and diagnosis o f HPAI is currently the most urgent and
important area that needs attention in Bangladesh. With the continued absence o f reports o f
HPAI in Bangladesh, it would be particularly valuable to conduct extensive targeted active
surveillance (both virus huntingintracheal and cloacal swabs and sero-surveillance) on domestic
duck populations around already identified high-risk areas (e.g. in Sylhet district). In addition,
all major poultry mortalities must be thoroughly investigated to rule out (or confirm) the
presence o f H5N1 virus in the country. It i s now recognised that sero-surveillance in chickens
for this virus has very little practical value, due to the high pathogenicity o f H5N1 in that
species.

B1. Strengthening of Veterinary Services

12.     Once the evaluation o f veterinary and related services has been completed, support
should be provided to strengthen National Veterinary Services to bring them in line with OIE
standards. Such support would include essential technical support for strengthening governance
and updating legislation.     Emphasis must be placed on ensuring that all field activities
undertaken for disease investigation, recognition, containment, elimination and eradication are
undertaken within current legislation. Any deficiency must be identified and corrected. The
project would provide necessary technical assistance to improve legislation, but actual
enforcement will likely remain a continuing challenge. The project would provide technical
assistance inthe form o fbothqualified veterinary and legal expertise.

B2. Strengthening Animal DiseaseSurveillance and Laboratory Diagnosis

a. Improving animal health information flow among relevant agencies

13.     To improve the quality and quantity o f information on HPAI and other livestock diseases
betweenrelevant agencies, there i s a need to establish a standardized disease information system.
Currently there is a structured establishment within the public sector whereby each o f the 464
Upazilas has an average o f 2 veterinarians and livestock officers who collect livestock disease
information from about 10 unions (each containing 3 wards, each o f which has several villages)
within each Upazila. These veterinarians then collate the information and send reports twice a
week to the respective district heads (64) o f livestock who then report to the (6) divisional
headquarters and finally onto the National Center in DLS in Dhaka. This whole structure
appears to be directed exclusively at the village level, and there is little evidence o f involvement
of the private sector. The latter receives veterinary services from private and company employed
veterinarians. As some 50% o f poultry i s in the commercial sector, they andor their veterinary
agents must also be included in the national health information data base, be present at the
specific training courses, introduce the data base to their offices and provide disease and
surveillance data from their own activities in this area. Diagnostic services are also being
provided to poultry producers, and surveillance activities being undertaken, by colleges of
veterinary science. They also should become part of the national disease information data base.




                                                 52

14.     To effectively manage and analyse the large amount o f data obtained and convert it to
useful information, currently available software packages (e.g. the FA0 program for Trans-
boundary Animal Disease Information "TAD Info") need to be used. To ensure accuracy and
minimize transformation errors, attention should be directed at data entry at the lowest possible
level with subsequent data transfer by electronic means through e-mail. To complement this
major investment, training on the use o f TAD Info (or other suitable software) will be provided
to the district and divisional staff by the recently trained epidemiologists from DLS, with
technical support by this project andpossibly by FAO.

15.     The project would support the instalment o f computers in all 64 district DLS offices, the
6 divisional DLS offices, each FDIL, the CDIL, BLRI and epidemiologists in the central office
inDhaka. Inaddition, theprojectwillprovide for the installationandoperations costs ofinternet
services for rapid transfer o f data and information.

16.     This sub-component will also support the development o f a disease information system in
Bangladesh which i s uniform with that operating inother participating countries, as part o f their
control programs. This will provide better analytical capacity and enable them to participate in
global disease information sharing, complying with their obligations as members o f the OIE,
thereby contributing towards progressively better global and regional control and eradication.
The system would be linked with rapid and standardized methods o f routine analysis o f
surveillance data, which would demonstrate important changes in the H5N1 situation, and
promptly supply this information to field personnel. To support this initiative, the project will
supply GIS (Geographic Information System) software and GPS (Geographic Positioning
System) instrumentation, and recruit a national expert to implement andprovide training ineach
o f the districts.

b. Detection, reporting andfollow-up of reported cases

 17.    Each o f the Upazilas are staffed by at least 2 veterinarians or livestock officers who
supply the front-line animal health services to a large part o f the country's poultry producers.
They are also the "eyes and ears" o f the DLS for disease reporting.

 18.    A number of training courses will be organized by experienced and knowledgeable DLS
staff, together with a pathology lecturer from the nearby veterinary colleges.        It is strongly
recommended that the DLS should involve the universities inthis area as they are well equipped
to provide professional instruction and supplement contributions from the government officials.
University Veterinary faculties are located at Mymensingh, Sylhet, Chittagong, Barisal, Rajshahi
and Dinajpur. Courses are scheduled to be held at each FDIL each year. The courses will
provide training in disease investigation, history taking, clinical examination, necropsy
techniques, sample collection and recording o f observations ina standardized format. Apart from
the specific training provided, this close working and association o f official, private poultry and
academic veterinarians will be o fmutual benefit to all.

 19.     Training will be supplemented by the provision o f basic post-mortem kits, vacuum tubes
for the collection o f blood samples and swabs for cloacaVtrachea1swab specimens andpersonal
protective equipment.



                                                  53

20.     To ensure that these front-line field staff has the ability to visit farms and villages, the
project will provide necessary transport facilities related to HPAI investigations.        This will
include the provision o f motor bikes, initially to the high-risk Upazilas, together with budget to
cover operating costs and maintenance.        In conjunction with the DLS, BRAC undertook a
national survey to identify specific "hotspots" where migratory birds regularly reside and the
results are summarized below:




It is strongly recommended that these Upazilas with identified hotspots be the first to receive
motor bikes. An assessment o f the impact o f this initiative will be made at the mid-termreview
(MTR) and, ifpositive, motor bikes will be supplied to additional Upazilas. Additional support
will be provided for operating costs and maintenance o f existing vehicles at the District and
Divisional DLS offices.     Finally, a contractual agreement between DLS and BLRI, under
supervision o f MOFL, should facilitate the use o f BLRI facilities to analyze samples.         The
project will support such analysis to facilitate necessary diagnostic work for HPAI.

c. Public and community-based surveillance networks

21.     As some 50% o f the poultry population resides in the 90,500 villages throughout the
country, it would be appropriate for community-based networks to be established and to
contribute to the surveillance program. These could be established and maintained by the village
heads or "lead" farmers (with the most chickens and having a vested interest in their success).
The project would provide assistanceto facilitate the creation o f a community-based surveillance
system through the Upazila veterinarians. Inaddition, public awareness programs need to be
directed at poultry owners and producers to encourage them to report any suspicion o f HPAI
(increased mortality, suggestive clinical signs, decreased egg production or feed conversion).
These will be provided through the public media (newspapers, radio, television, posters and
pamphlets at markets, etc.) under the "Public Awareness and Information" component o f the
project. However, as many farmers in Bangladesh have little or no contact with the public
media, the project would support farmers meetings to alert them about HPAI and what to do if
they suspect it has occurred intheir poultry. The Planallows for approximately 480 workshops
(1 in each upazila) at which there will be 2 farmers from each ward, providing direct
involvement of approximately 27,000 farmers. This would also include workshops with major
NGOs (such as BRAC) and others working directly with poultry owners, including privately
 employed veterinarians and those working with integrated commercial poultry farms and
 organisations.


                                                  54

d.   Epidemiological surveys and research to support strategic actions

22.    Serological surveillance to date appears to have been mostly o f the "convenience"
category, the majority coming from imported DOCS at the point o f entry. To identify disease,
emphasis should be directed at high-risk sites within the country, especially targeting the duck
population. Surveillance inthe chicken population should primarilybe clinical and pathological
examination, followed by virus detection in dead and clinically affectedbirds. Sero-surveillance
inchickens hasvery little practicalvalue, dueto the highpathogenicityofH5N1inthat species.

23.    Training will be provided by experienced and qualified epidemiologists into the correct
methods o f undertaking surveys to either assess the prevalence o f HPAIifit occurs or to provide
meaningful and credible evidence o f absence. Emphasis will be placed on establishing sample
frames, on random selection techniques and on the statistical interpretation o f results. Courses
will be aimed at veterinarians from districts, FDILs, veterinary colleges and the private sector.

24.     The project would also provide support for the training o f a small number o f key,
computer-literate   personnel in establishing and maintaining an effective inter-active
computerized data base to record (e.g. TAD Info), store and analyse all relevant data received
and to convert it to useful information ina variety o f modes (tables, charts, graphs, maps, etc.).
The course will be specifically directedat veterinarians working inthe epidemiologyunit ofDLS
inDhaka.

e. Improving diagnosticlaboratory capacity

25.     The government diagnostic laboratory network inBangladesh i s within DLS and consists
o f one Central Disease Investigation Laboratory (CDIL) in Dhaka and 7 Field Disease
Investigation Laboratories (FDILs) located at Sylhet, Feni, Barisal, Manikgonj, Joypurhat,
Gaibanda and Sirajganj. Each laboratory i s staffed by a Principal Scientific Officer (in charge),
one Senior Scientific Officer, two to three Scientific Officers, Laboratory Technicians and sub-
technical staff. The scientific staff are veterinary graduates with either a Master's degree or
specialized training from within the country or abroad. A number o f previous and current
projects (FAO, JICA, USAID, Danida and ADB) have supplied staff training for HPAI diagnosis
and a range o f laboratory equipment to the network. A short-term international consultant and a
long-term national consultant with FA0 have recently undertaken an assessment o f all DLS
laboratories and identified key deficiencies. This project would provide additional inputs to
complement these activities and address identified deficiencies.

26.     The CDIL has a long way to go before it can fbnction as the National Reference
Laboratory for HPAI diagnosis.       The CDIL laboratory has BSL-1 capacity only and has
preliminary capacity to diagnose avian influenza (type A infection). Recently, some funds have
been provided by GOB for renovation o f one laboratory for AI work. However, it i s estimated
that the laboratory would not be operational until 2008 at the earliest, and will need a high level
o f technical assistance and staff training. The project would provide necessary equipment to
ensure this facility can develop into a functional central laboratory in the long-term. There is a
national desire to establish a BSL-3 laboratory at the CDIL. Given the current situation in
Bangladesh, the time delay to provide such a facility and the high cost o f establishment,



                                                55

operations and maintenance, the project would provide two BSL-3 bio-safety cabinets for
immediate installation in the existing laboratory. This will allow the safe handling o f suspect
and dangerous materials. However, it is recommended that an expert laboratory engineer be
fielded to undertake a feasibility study o f the practicalities for providing the additional pre-
bricated BSL-3 laboratory at the CDIL.

27.     As they are at the forefront of disease investigation throughout Bangladesh, the most
urgent need i s to rehabilitate and rejuvenate the 7 existing Field Disease Investigation
Laboratories (FDILs). These laboratories are strategically located in key field areas. They are
currently ina very rundown state and are bothunsafe and unsuitable for undertaking necropsies
on chickens, examination o f specimens and undertaking diagnostic tests. The FDILs have very
limited capacity to conduct post-mortem and pathological examination o f chickens, although
they recently received ELISA kits for AI, together with plate readers to undertake sero-
surveillance. Ina number o f cases, the scientific officer conducting the tests had not received
any training and the testing procedures have no quality control. There was no evidence o f
protective clothing for staff when a number o f these facilities were visited. The project will
provide resources to partly rehabilitate these laboratories and make bench tops impervious to
chemicals. BSL-2 bio-safety cabinets will be supplied together with backup generators to ensure
regular electricity supplies and the provision o f staff training, specific equipment, materials and
supplies to undertake meaninghl HPAI investigation, active field surveillance and the testing o f
collected samples under safe conditions. Specific equipment (incinerators) for the safe disposal
of dead birds and tissues will be provided to each o f the central and field diagnostic laboratories.
In addition, training will be provided in laboratory management and GLP (Good Laboratory
Practice).

28.     The Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI), located at Savar, is currently in a
much better position to be regarded as the National Laboratory for HPAI diagnosis inthe short
to medium-term. Administratively, it is responsible directly to the Ministry o f Fisheries and
Livestock. A Poultry Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, developed by JICA and Danida, started
work on HPAIand a recently implemented Danishproject i s assisting this laboratory to develop
expertise on HPAIthrough 3-month training programs inCopenhagen and the supply o f specific
equipment. The District Livestock OfficersLJpazila Livestock Officedfarmers send samples for
disease diagnosis to BLRI. The laboratory is staffed by 5 scientific staff and 2 technicians and
has dedicated sections for autopsy, histopathology, serology, virology, bacteriology, washing and
sterilization. The virology section has egg inoculation and primary cell culture facilities which
are being used for all poultry viruses, including avian influenza. They processed over 3000
samples for HPAI by virus isolation and 100by quick test kit, all with negative results (prior to
the outbreak). The laboratory needs a dedicated space for HPAIdiagnostic work using Standard
Operating Procedures in a bio-secure environment. The laboratory also has facilities for RT-
PCR and required primers for influenza A virus H5 types.               Limited standardization and
 application o f the technique has been used on field samples. Currently, the BLRI i s receiving
 assistance from Danida and JICA in both training and equipment. The project will supplement
 any shortfalls that are identified.

29.     In addition to government facilities, the veterinary faculties/colleges in Bangladesh
provide a front-line diagnostic service to poultry producers in their respective areas and should



                                                 56

be regarded as part o f the national laboratory network. The faculties at Bangladesh Agriculture
University (BAU) Mymensingh, Rajshahi University, Chittagong University and Sylhet
University; and the Government Veterinary Colleges at Dinajpur and Barisal have trained
manpower, equipment and facilities for HPAIdiagnosis and provide diagnostic services to local
producers as part o f their practical teaching curriculum. A proportion o f the antigen detection
and ELISA kits purchased through the project should be supplied to these colleges for the
provision o f a diagnostic service and the training o f the next group o fpracticingveterinarians.

30.     Given the current situation inBangladesh, the poultry diagnostic laboratory at BLRIhas
recently been recognized as the current National Reference Laboratory for HPAIuntilthe CDIL
has the capacity and ability to assume this role inthe mediumto long-term. It is understood that
a Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU), to this effect, has been signed by both agencies. To
enable the BLRIto provide analytical services immediately, it will be supplied with two BSL-3
cabinets to be dedicated to work on HPAI. The feasibility study would also examine the need
andprovision for a BSL-3 laboratory at BLRI.

B3. StrengtheningAppliedVeterinary Research

31.     Given the current situation inBangladesh andthe urgent need for basic capacity building,
it is considered that undertaking research at this time shouldbe limited and focused on important
issues.  It would be useful to evaluate the current range o f rapid antigen detection tests to
determine their specificity. Alternatively, a useful project would be to answer the obvious
question o f "what are the unique epidemiological features o f H5N1 for getting established in
Bangladesh?".     With the involvement of university veterinary faculties in the program, it is
possible that they could identify both suitable candidates and HPAItopics for competitive grants
program (CGP) which will be supported by the project. Veterinary colleges are enthusiastic with
the concept o f involving DLS staff in such projects leading to the acquisition o f post-graduate
qualifications and to the use o ftheir staff intraining programs.

C. StrengtheningControlProgramsand ContainmentPlans


32.     This sub-component will provide support to contain outbreaks o f HPAI in Bangladesh.
These measures, included in the National HPAI Control Plan and activity manual, are intended
as a means o f rapid mobilization to respond quickly and effectively to HPAI outbreaks. They
would consist o f guidelines for the rapid activation o f physical and human resources. Now that
there has been an outbreak o f HPAIinBangladesh, there i s thus an urgent need to continue the
development o f Standard Operating Procedures (SOPS) for such activities as containment o f
infected places, destruction o f in-contact live birds, disposal of infected and destroyed birds and
contaminated materials, disinfection o f infected places, clinical and pathological examinationo f sick
poultry; collection, packaging and submission of specimens, undertaking the relevant range o f
recommendedlaboratory tests, etc.




                                                  57

C1. TargetingVirus Eliminationat the Source

33.    InBangladesh, plans for the specific HPAI control strategies and programs include the
principle o f targetingthe disease at the source o f infection. This sub-component would support
the following activities: (a) destruction o f infected and at-risk poultry (stamping out); (b)
disposal o f carcasses and potentially infective materials in a bio-secure and environmentally
acceptable manner; (c) enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and associated premises, through
bio-containment and bio-exclusion;       and (d) and training in culling, safe-disposal, bio-
containment and quarantine measures.

34.     The project would support contingency plans to cover the costs o f containment, the
destruction and disposal o f affected poultry, the cleaning and disinfection o f infected places.
Support would also be provided for the hiringandtraining o f the front-line people who would be
involved inthese activities, iffurther HPAI outbreaks occurredinBangladesh.

C2. Fundfor SupportingAnimalVaccination

35.     With no reports of HPAI till February 2007, vaccination has not been undertaken; mass
vaccination campaigns would only apply should the disease become widespread and was not
controlled by more traditional methods o f stamping-out. However, vaccination might be
considered if valuable breeding stock (parent and grand-parent flocks) and rare or endangered
species (zoos, national parks) were considered at risk. In addition, ring-vaccination around
infected places might be considered if outbreaks occur which are not effectively contained and
eliminated. The use o f vaccination to control HPAI must go in parallel with other control
procedures, strategic field surveillance and epidemiological studies to identify virus sources,
selection o f priority hot spots, imposition o f transport bans, and post-vaccination monitoring.
Serological monitoring, using the DNA (Differentiating Infected from Vaccinated Animals)
principle and the use o f sentinel domestic ducks and chickens, are essential measures to monitor
vaccinated domestic duck flocks. A specific contingency fund for the procurement o fvaccines is
included.

36.     If necessary, the project would support the purchase and use of good quality HPAI
vaccines produced according to OIE standards and implemented according to FAO/OIE
guidelines.    The project would also provide capacity building in vaccination principles and
practices at the national level to ensure that vaccines are used with a clearly defined objective
andtime-phased exit strategy, linkedto strict post-vaccinationsurveillance andmonitoring.

C3. PersonnelSafety

37.     Due to the highlypathogenic nature o f the HPAI virus to humans, particularly the Asian
H5N1 strain, training o f people in contact with live virus i s supported. This includes field
workers involved in identification o f the disease, farm workers involved in culling, and
laboratory workers involved invirus isolation and diagnosis. Project would support training and
the provision o f Personal Protective Equipment (PPE -- overalls, boots, masks, goggles).
 Specific laboratory equipment, including bio-safety cabinets and appropriate personal protective
clothing, would be provided to those working inCDIL, BLRIand FDILs.



                                                 58

D. ImprovingBio-securityinPoultryProductionandTrade

38.     Improving bio-security in all poultry production systems and markets in Bangladesh i s
regarded as a key means to prevent introduction and spread o f HPAIfrom diseased to susceptible
birds. Bio-security at the farm should focus on making the facilities bird-proof to prevent the
entry o f wild birds as well as preventing the entry of any other animals and non-essential
personnel. Entryo f vehicles should be minimized (e.g. feed delivery vehicles and egg collection
trucks should not enter but deliver and collect at the physical boundary o f the farm. Different
species o f birds should be segregated on farms and inmarkets. Wherever possible, markets and
processing centres should be completely de-stocked at the end o f each day's operations to allow
thorough cleaning and disinfection before the following day's activities.       Vehicles and cages
used for the transport o f poultry and poultry products must also be cleaned and disinfected
between loads. Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) need to be established and implemented
with development o f a realistic monitoring procedure. The project would provide fimding to
enable DLS staff to demonstrate how backyard and small poultry producers can improve their
bio-safety, establish a number o f models on local farms to emphasize key points and improve
facilities at wet, live birdmarkets and processing centers.

E. Supportfor SurveillanceofMigratoryBirds

39.      Given that there is currently a complete ban on the importation o f commercial poultry
from outside Bangladesh, except for improved genetic stock from disease-free countries, the
most likely source o f virus introduction would be by migratory waterfowl. There i s thus a need
to support surveillance activities o f migratory birds. Field staff o f the Ministry o f Environment
and Forest (MOEF) will be trained in recognition that a problem exists if dead wild birds are
encountered, how to examine affected birds and the collection o f relevant samples by safe
practices under safe conditions using protective equipment and procedures. The staff will also
be trained to despatch the suspect materiaVdead bird to the nearest FDIL/CDIL/BLRI in a bio-
secure manner. Given that many migratory birds visit remote areas o f Bangladesh, the project
would support the formation o f local village groups for surveillance activities, particularly in
hotspot areas.

F. ContingencyFund

F1. CompensationProgram

40.      Giventhat compensation is usually requiredto encourage early notification and assist in
eradication procedures and given that the GOB i s developing a workable compensation policy
for this activity, the project would support the compensation program to implement this activity.
However, to maintain this important function, it i s essential for the government to commit and
allocate an adequate amount o f fimds to ensure sustainability.

F2. PersonalProtectiveEquipmentandVaccines

41.      The project would provide contingency funds for procurement o f PPE, if required, for
control and containment inthe case o f an outbreak as well as procurement o f vaccines.



                                                 59

11. PublicAwareness andInformationComponent

42.    The National Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan
(NAIP), 2006-2008, provides a strategic framework for coordinating activities within and
between various sectors and stakeholders for preparedness and response to avian and human
pandemic influenza in Bangladesh. Under this Plan, a National Multi-Sectoral Task Force
(NMTF) has been formed that involves the government, private sector, NGOs, civil society,
elective representatives, professional and business bodies and others. The Plan also envisages
formulating   a   comprehensive,    multi-sectoral    and proactive   communication strategy
(communication policy i s already prepared but it needs pro-active implementation) to provide
timely, adequate and effective information to various target groups, particularly health care
personnel, stakeholders, and the media during each pandemic stage. This component deals with
public awareness andinformation related to both the animal health andhumanhealth.

43.    A Communication Technical Working Group (TWC), led by UNICEF, has prepared a
National Communication Strategy and Action Plan (NCSAP) for Avian Influenza and Human
Pandemic Influenza. Under the NAIP, the risk communication strategy envisages undertaking
communication workshops involving media personnel, service providers and policy people. It
also outlines production and dissemination o f various communication materials to raise public
awareness about HPAI. In order to address the risk communication issues, the NCSAP has
proposed the following to cover three different phases o f the epidemiological situation. These
are: (i) pre-pandemic phase will aim at controlling avian influenza with the objective to
        the
reduce the risk o f animal to animal transmission; (ii) the pandemic alert phase looks at issues
about intensive hygiene and containment, with the objective to reduce the risk o f animal to
humantransmission andimprove hygiene to limit spread of seasonal humaninfluenza; and (iii)
the pandemic phase would reduce the risk o fhuman to human transmission.

44.     The National Multi-Sectoral Task Force (NMTF) o f the Government i s the overarching
management framework to manage and implement the Plan. Of the more than 15 government
agencies, keyministries such as Environment andForest, Fisheries and Livestock and Health and
Family Welfare will play the most prominent role in various stages o f the pandemic in
Bangladesh. The objectives o f the government's national risk communication strategy are as
follows: (i)to establish and ensure an integrated communication strategy responsive to public
concerns; (ii)to ensure coordination among technical and communication staff regarding key
messages; and (iii) to ensure media training for key technical and communications spokespeople.

45.     For effective implementation o f national communication strategy, the Ministry o f
Information (MOI) will play an important role. Building effective partnership with all relevant
stakeholders through sharing o f information will be the greatest challenge for successful
implementation o f the AIPRP.        The role o f communication in managing inter-sectoral
coordination will be crucial. Development o f key messages and timely dissemination of those
messages in various multi-media formats will determine the effectiveness o f the communication
interventions.    While the Government will essentially follow the WHO'S Outbreak
Communications Guidelines to undertake mitigation of risk communication activities, the World




                                                60

Bank's support will help sustain national communication efforts to maximize the impact o f the
interventions.

46.      This component o f the proposed AIPRP will complement and supplement
implementation o f the NCSAP. Thus, duplication o f communication activities can be avoided
and it will give opportunity to introduce innovative and best-practices to strengthen ongoing
national communication activities. This component will have two sub-components: (i)     capacity
building; and (ii) information and communication services. The latter sub-component will focus
on three activities: (a) advocacy and collaboration with stakeholders; (b) production and
dissemination o f communication materials; and (c) developing pilot models for community-
based communication.

A. CapacityBuilding

47.      The development o f a strong, sustainable human resource base is one o f the most
important objectives o f country-specific disease control strategies. This sub-component will
support the needs assessment o f the people involved in the media and communication sector.
This sub-component will strengthen capacity o f the national and regional media to accurately
report on HPAI. A network of media personnel will be developed to build professionalism
around the risk communication issues. A reporting guideline will be developed to help both the
public and private sector media to follow the international best practices. Through workshops
with editors, news editors and reporters o f the print and electronic media at the national and
regional levels, this sub-component will help build a common understanding about the issues
involved.

B. InformationandCommunicationServices

B1. Advocacy and Collaboration with Stakeholders:

48.      The multi-dimensionalproblems associated with HPAIinfection necessitate collaboration
among a wide range o f stakeholders, including various ministries, research institutions,
diagnostic laboratories, NGOs and civil society organizations, private companies and
 associations (e.g., commercial poultry producers, farmers' associations), veterinarians and
 farmers. The sub-component will support activities designed to improve effective coordination
 and collaboration among these stakeholders. A well designed `advocacy plan," will assist in
keeping the key political leaders, the Cabinet and the Parliament, updated on the situation, and
visibly participative inthe public response. Other priority stakeholders andmedia managers will
have to be identified and constantly briefed. As the epidemic moves from phase to phase,
 different government and civil actors will be brought into the scene. This needs to be planned
 and prepared well in advance, selecting and training spokespersons, preparing contents and
 actions plans, arranging for media coverage andbuildingupon the formal and informal networks
 o f social leadership.




                                               61

B2. Production and Dissemination of Communication Material:

49.     Activities to be supported include developing and testing messages and materials to be
used inthe event o f a pandemic or emerging infectious disease outbreak, and further enhancing
the infrastructure to disseminate information from national to state and local levels and between
the public and private sectors.        Communication activities will support cost-effective and
sustainable methods such as "marketing" o f hand-washing via mass media, counselling and
schools. These methods will be integrated into avian influenza specific interventions as well as
ongoing outreach activities of ministries and services, especially the departments under the o f
Ministries o fHealth and FamilyWelfare, Information, Fisheries and Livestock, and Environment
andForest.

50.     Support will be provided for information and communication activities to increase the
attention and commitment o f government, private sector and civil society organizations, and to
raise awareness, knowledge and understandingamong the general population about the risk and
potential impact o f the pandemic and to develop multi-sectoral strategies to address it. In
addition, support will be provided for the development and distribution o f basic communication
materials on influenza, influenza vaccine, antiviral agents and other relevant topics; general
preventive measures such as "dos" and "don'ts"          for the general public; information and
guidelines for health care providers; training modules (web-based, printed, and video);
presentations, slide sets, and documentaries; and symposia on surveillance, treatment and
prophylaxis. Networks o f the BRAC, ASA and PKSF will be tapped to reach the relevant
stakeholders involved in both inward poultry and backyard poultry.          Support will also be
provided to strengthen networks o f communication offices, as well as mechanisms to increase
coordination and consistency o f messages among risk communication managers. A web-site will
be created, as part o f this project, for increasing awareness through sharing o f information and
messages.

B3. Developing Community-based Communication Pilots:

51.      This activity will support `pilot' formation o f the community-based communication
groups. It will provide a feedback mechanism to facilitate the flow o finformation from the grass-
root level to project management and stakeholders. Such groups will monitor the preparation and
dissemination o f informationmaterials.

111. ImplementationSupport andMonitoring& EvaluationComponent

52.     This component has two sub-components.

A. Implementationand TechnicalSupport

53.     A Project Coordination Unit (PCLJ) is being established within the DLS. The PCUwill
be responsible for project implementation, coordination and management.         It will contain a
number of national staff to handle communication, procurement, financial management,
safeguards, operations and the management o f Project activities. It will also have a technical
assistance team (consisting o f international and national experts) hired through FAO. The



                                                  62

project would provide support for national and international experts to assist with
implementation, communication andmanagement. Inparticular, the project will support (a) long-
term international veterinary expertise to assist DLS; (b) a long-term national expert to assist in
project implementation and will be based in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within DLS;
and (c) a long-term national expert to assist with implementation and coordination o f the AI
Component o f HNPSP and will be based in DGHS under MOHFW. The project would also
provide support for the incremental staffing needs o f the PCU, including M&E staff, and
operational cost for the PCU.

B. MonitoringandEvaluation

54.     This sub-component would provide financial and technical support for regular internal
M&E of the Project as well as for an independent evaluation on a periodic basis. The M&E in
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which will be part o f broader Management Information
System (MIS), will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation o f AIPRP.

                           2. Avian InfluenzaComponentof HNPSP

55.     The Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP i s designed to better position Bangladesh to
recognize human disease caused by avian influenza or other strains o f influenza virus with
pandemic potential; to prevent humaninfections, should avian influenza be recognized inpoultry
or other avian species in the country; to prepare the health care system to care for persons with
this disease during the pre-pandemic phase, if prevention and control measures fail to prevent
human infection; and to cope with the consequences o f pandemic influenza, if and when it
occurs.    Given the significant challenges o f capacity building in a country with limited
infrastructure and socio-demographics o f Bangladesh, accomplishing these objectives will take a
concerted andmulti-year effort.

56.      The component activities will focus on three sub-components. These include (i)   planning
and coordination, (ii) surveillance capacity development, and (iii) care system
                        disease                                                 health
preparedness and response. Detailed description for each o f these sub-components is provided
below.

A. EnhancingPublicHealthProgramPlanningand Coordination

Al. Review of NationalPolicies

57.      Bangladesh has had its share o f disease outbreaks and natural disasters and has been able
to respond to them.      However, there are unique challenges to responding to an influenza
pandemic that may require application o f special measures. As part o f implementation, a review
o f the legal and regulatory framework for disease control and prevention will be undertaken to
make sure there are no gaps or corrective actions needed to be ideally situated to address avian
andpandemic influenza. As one example, the country may have to impose a quarantine to limit
disease spread. Existingregulations to do this shouldbe reviewed. Other issuesthat would need
to be reviewed include the use o f unapproved products (e.g. pandemic vaccine) by the Ministry
o f Health and Family Welfare in an emergency situation, and the use o f a volunteer workforce
for provision o fmedical care duringa pandemic. The current framework for disease surveillance


                                                 63

and control should also be reviewed, including compatibility and compliance with the revised
International Health Regulations (IHRs). The component will support an international technical
expert to work with a national counterpart to conduct this review andmake recommendations for
appropriate modifications to existing legislation or regulations.

A2. Evaluation of Health Services and Needs Assessment at National and RegionalLevels

58.     Manyo f the activities inthis component take place at the national level. However, some
are focused on the regional, district, or Upazila levels, such as surveillance enhancements and
health care facilities upgrades. It i s necessary to understand the degree to which lower levels o f
the public health system are positioned to absorb these additional activities.      It will also be
necessary to periodically ascertain the level of preparedness, once activities to upgrade the
system have been initiated.       HNPSP will support such assessments, using standardized
instruments to conduct them. One assessment in each o f the six Divisions will be conducted
during the early phases o f implementation to establish baselines, followed by an annual
assessment in each Division inthe following years. HNPSP will support international technical
assistanceto develop the assessmenttools and assessment scheme, participate inthe assessments,
and make recommendations for corrective actions.          To accomplish the latter, HNPSP will
support long-term technical assistance for participation inthe regional assessments by a national
expert. To improve intersectoral coordination, these assessments should be undertaken jointly
with animalhealthcounterparts.

A3. Development and Disseminationof Guidelines and Protocols

59.     Inorder to ensure adequate national capacity to address various aspects of humanavian
and pandemic influenza, uniform national guidelines and protocols must be developed in
Bangladesh.     At present, some material has been developed by the government and some
information is available from partner international agencies and non-governmentalorganizations.
Distribution o f these materials and training activities using them has been spotty. Highquality
protocols and guidelines for disease surveillance (including case definitions), for case and
outbreak investigation, and for case management, have been developed in many other countries
and are available from the World Health Organization (WHO). These materials must be adapted
to be appropriate in the context o f the health care system in Bangladesh. Since subsequent
training activities hinge on the availability o f such high quality guidelines and protocols, their
development needs to occur very early. HNPSP will support their development, inconcert with
technical consultants, and their dissemination in print and electronic versions. As an emerging
disease, scientific information on avian influenza in humans i s                rapidly evolving.
Recommendations on optimal case management or disease control may change over the course
o f the project. Therefore, it will be necessary to periodically (preferably annually) review the
guidelines and protocols andmake revisions based on the latest information.

A4. Tabletopand Field Simulations

60.     Standardized guidelines and protocols are essential for health care system preparedness.
However, their content, quality, and relevance cannot be easily evaluated until they are needed
for disease control and prevention. In addition, the level o f preparedness o f the health care



                                                  64

workforce, the response community, and others critical to address this disease i s largely
unknown.      Tabletop and field simulations can help in ascertaining the current level o f
preparedness, serve as a valuable training tool, and can identify significant gaps inpreparedness
and response planning. For maximum benefit, simulations should be conducted as soon as
possible and again when other aspects o f the component are underway (such as training activities
and acquisition o f supplies and pharmaceuticals). High quality tabletop and field simulation
exercises have been developed and executed in countries with infrastructure and circumstances
similar to Bangladesh. Rather then invent such simulations from scratch, the exercises used
elsewhere should be evaluated and adapted for the Bangladesh context. HNPSP will support
outside technical assistance to develop and conduct periodic field and tabletop simulations (three
tabletop simulations and six field exercises (one per division). For maximum effectiveness, the
tabletop exercises should involve top governmental officials, should examine inter-governmental
and inter-sectoral cooperation, should test health care effectiveness, and should assess
preparedness around issues such as social distancing measures. Since similar exercises are
planned for APRP, to the degree feasible the animal and human health exercises should be done
jointly.

B. StrengtheningNationalPublicHealthSurveillanceSystem

B1. StrengtheningDiseaseMonitoringandReporting

a. Training ofpublic health workers in disease surveillance

61.     Training activities for district level surveillance and investigative personnel have been
conducted at IEDCR, and limitedtraining o fhealth care personnel has also beendone. However,
face-to-face assessments suggest that most health care workers have not yet received any formal
training on how to care for persons with suspected avian influenza or those exposed to the
disease. Training activities have also been done in the absence o f standardized and validated
guidelines and protocols for disease surveillance and investigation. HNPSP will support training
activities utilizing government training resources and using external training agencies, as
necessary. There i s regular turnover of health care personnel andthe regulations, guidelines and
protocols are still evolving. Therefore, over the course o f the program, the information would be
reinforced and the component will also support periodic refresher courses. HNPSP will support
training indisease surveillance o f around 7,500 staff at the national andregional levels.

b. Upgrading of priority infrastructure of health surveillance services


 62.     Influenza-like Illness (ILI) surveillance, especially when coupled with specimen
collection to isolate influenza viruses, i s an important activity inthe national and global effort to
track the spread o f influenza. Sentinel surveillance for ILIinvolves representative sites around
the country which monitor the number o f persons attending a health care facility (in-patient or
 out-patient) who fhlfil a standardized case definition for ILI. Such cases are counted and
reported (usually on a weekly basis) as a proportion o f total visits.           Baselines are then
 established, trends are monitored and reported, and aberrations (outbreaks) are identified and
 investigated. ILI sites can also monitor for viral pneumonia and other illnesses that might be
 indicators of the presence o f avian influenza. Specimens are collected from a representative


                                                  65

sample o f persons meeting the ILI case definition for influenza testing. In this way, influenza
types and subtypes circulating inBangladesh can be tracked.

63.      IEDCR has established a small network o f sentinel sites for ILIand other conditions, but
the data currently beingcollected appear sub-optimal and are unlikely to reflect the occurrence o f
ILIinthese locations (low sensitivity andpoor timeliness). HNPSP will support strengthening
activities in existing sites to enhance sensitivity and data collection and establishment o f new
sites. IEDCR has proposed that sentinel surveillance be conducted in three sites per Division
(for a total o f 18 sites), representing the three levels o f the health care infrastructure in the
country (primary, secondary, and tertiary).           HNPSP will support the establishment or
enhancement o f these 18 sites, including data collection and submission, and specimen collection
from persons meetingthe case definition. A minimumo f five specimens per site per month (90
specimens per month) should be collected. These specimens can be tested on-site with rapid
diagnostic kits (with positive specimens forwarded for further testing) or directly submitted to
the IEDCR laboratory for testing, if rapid tests are unavailable.      Specimens will be tested at
IEDCR using standardized protocols (PCWvirus isolation) with further virus evaluation done at
IEDCR and/or shipped to an international reference laboratory. Since ICDDRB, also operates a
sentinel surveillance network (although not specifically for influenza) to the degree feasible the
networks should be complementary and integrated and information derived from these networks
should be shared.

64.      For effective containment and prevention activities, Bangladesh must have a sensitive
surveillance system for illnesses which may represent avian influenza. There must also be a
system in place to track disease during an influenza pandemic. Data from other countries that
have experienced human disease caused by avian influenza H5N1 indicate that most patients
have a severe illness consistent with viral pneumonia. Therefore, surveillance efforts during the
pre-pandemic period should include a component that focuses on persons with this condition
who have a history o f exposure to sick and dying poultry or other birds, even when highly
pathogenic avian influenza has not been confirmed inthese animals. Such human cases may be
present at almost any health care facility. Therefore, to be effective, this system must be national
inscope. Given the severity ofhumandisease up to this point, duringthe pre-pandemic phase
efforts should focus on in-patient facilities.

65.      IEDCR has proposed establishingviral pneumonia and avian influenza surveillance inall
64 districts by incorporating the activity into existing surveillance methods and structures. Such
an approach strengthens the overall surveillance infrastructure rather than creating another
independent vertical system.       HNPSP will support this approach, including application o f
 standardized case definitions and detection methods, data collection, and rapid submission o f
 standardized information on potential cases. District-level surveillance teams will work with
health care personnel at the district and Upazila level hospitals to rapidly detect possible cases, in
concert with nationwide training on surveillance methods. IEDCR must develop mechanisms to
 include the sizeable private health sector in this surveillance effort and demonstrate such on-
 goingprivate sector participation. Computers and fax machines will beprovided for the conduct
 o f national surveillance in all 64 districts, along with the software for data entry and analysis.
 Transportation for conducting the surveillance activities (and for rapid response teams (see




                                                   66

below) will also be included. Ifinternet connections are available, electronic data transfer should
be implemented and HNPSP will support the costs to accomplish this.

66.     Although efforts are underway to modernize Bangladesh's surveillance infrastructure, in
many locations information is collected and recorded manually and transmitted inconsistently.
Quality o f analysis also varies. With respect to avian and pandemic influenza, it is important to
have uniform, consistent, and rapid data collection and transmission in order to maximize
opportunities for interventions.    As noted above, HNPSP will support the procurement and
instalment o f computers and fax machines for data entry and transmission. Ideally, all locations
will be able to transmit data electronically. At the central level, information technology will also
need to be enhanced. HNPSP will support procurement o f additional computers and auxiliary
equipment, and the necessary software, in the epidemiology unit and laboratory at IEDCR.
HNPSP will also support the establishment o f a web-site for posting data and information
relevant to avian influenza, including guidelines and protocols, along with information on other
reportable diseases.    HNPSP will support the hardware and software for avian influenza
surveillance and laboratory diagnostics, including the web site for public health-related data, and
provide for an information technology/data management specialist and data entry personnel to
accomplishthese activities.

c. Reinforcement of rapid responseteamsfor outbreak investigation

67.     As the surveillance infrastructure for avian influenza improves, and the likelihood that
avian influenza will be identified in the animal health sector increases, the need for rapid and
effective investigative capacity will also increase. Inorder to contain future outbreaks inpoultry,
the system must identify persons who fulfil the surveillance case definition for possible avian
influenza, and these cases must be looked into by trained professionals.           Bangladesh has
established a network o f rapid response teams at the district and national levels, and has begun
training team members on avian influenza.         HNPSP will support further training o f these
individuals once necessary guidelines and protocols have been developed, will provide the
necessary protective equipment, vaccinations, and antivirals for the investigators to safely
perform investigations, andwill support field investigations. For the purposes o f cost estimation,
it is presumedthat a total of 192field investigations will bedone bydistrict level response teams
per year (three investigations per district), and that these investigations will need support from
the national rapid response teams 20 times per year over the implementationof this component.
Field investigations at the district level will average 2 days, those which require national level
back-up support will last an average o f 5 days. HNPSP will support travel and per diem for the
investigative teams and also provide the material needed to collect and transport specimens
duringthese investigations.

B2. StrengtheningPublicHealthLaboratoryNetwork

 68.    A fundamental aspect of surveillance for avian influenza is the ability to diagnose and
 confirm the disease inthe laboratory. At present, capacity to do this within Bangladesh's public
 sector does not exist. The ICDDR,B has the ability to collect samples and isolate influenza
viruses, but must send specimens internationally for more specific subtyping and identification.
 Outside o fDhaka, there i s no capacity to conduct sample analysis. HNPSP will support a phased



                                                  67

approach to develop influenza laboratory diagnostic capacity inthe public sector inBangladesh.
Because specimen transport to a reference laboratory i s not a major obstacle in the country,
efforts will focus on fiont-line specimen collection, rapid diagnostics, and referral to a well-
equipped and staffed central facility in Dhaka.          Once there is a well-hctioning central
laboratory, the MOHFW may consider an expanded network at the regional level for influenza
diagnostics. While these capacities are specifically being developed for influenza, they can and
should be utilized for other emerging viral diseases inBangladesh, and should be viewed as part
o f overall capacity development. HNPSP will support supplies and equipment for laboratory
enhancements, material for field specimen collection and shipment, andbiosafety precautions for
personnel who will work in the central laboratories.           HNPSP will also provide technical
assistance in laboratory design, and if necessary, construction, since the necessary skill for
design are not available within the country. Three types o f laboratory-related activities will be
supported:

a. Rapid diagnostickits

69.     Simple-to-use rapid diagnostic kits are available to diagnose influenza A and B. These
kits cannot differentiate influenza A subtype, and their sensitivity for avian influenza inhumans
i s lower than for usual seasonal influenza disease (as the amount o f virus in upper respiratory
secretions in avian influenza patients i s less than for regular human subtypes). However, they
are a useful adjunct for influenza monitoring and, in a person with illness compatible with avian
influenza, can give an early diagnostic clue to support the diagnosis.           HNPSP will support
provision o f rapid diagnostic kits to sentinel sites for influenza-like illness supported by HNPSP
and to other referral centers in the country (medical colleges). Given the cost o f these kits,
provision o f rapid diagnostic kitsto health care facilities at the district or Upazila level cannot be
supported. HNPSP will, however, support re-supply o f these kits, as sentinel sites should be
doing monthly testing o f persons meeting the case definition for ILL

b. Development of real timepolymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) capacity at IEDCR

70.     RT-PCR i s the most rapid and sensitive method currently available to diagnose human
disease caused by avian influenza subtype H5N1. Therefore, it is important to develop the
ability to perform this assay at the Central Referral Laboratory at IEDCR. To do this, existing
laboratory space at IEDCR must be renovated and upgraded, equipment and supplies must be
procured, and staff must be trained. Other donors are supporting the development o f RT-PCR at
IEDCR. HNPSP will support gaps in available funding for construction to assure available o f
adequate space for this laboratory and for the equipment to be properly maintained. Given the
critical need for this capacity within Bangladesh, the necessary steps to develop RT-PCR must
begin as soon as possible, as operation o f the sentinel network and diagnosis of potential human
disease depends on the availability o fPCR diagnostic capacity.

c. Development of virus isolation capacity at IEDCR.

71.     Virology capacity at the National Referral Laboratory at IEDCR, at present is virtually
non-existent. Development of RT-PCR represents a significant upgrade, but will not allow
public health authorities to adequately respond to the myriad o f viral disease threats that exist



                                                  68

within Bangladesh, including Nipah virus, encephalitis viruses, dengue fever, and avian and
pandemic influenza.     Work on many o f these viruses requires bio-safety level 3 (BSL-3)
capacity, which will require investments in the infrastructure o f IEDCR. It will be prohibitively
expensive to renovate existing antiquated facilities to handle this biosafety level, and new
constructionwill take several years to complete. Therefore, HNPSP will support a pre-fabricated
bio-safety level 3 (BSL-3) suite to perform avian influenza viral diagnostic work inBangladesh,
along with the technical assistance for its installation, maintanence and operation. Because only
one company produces such laboratories for the Asian market, a sole source contract for
procurement o f this pre-fabricated laboratory should be issued to Techcomp Holding Company
o f Hong Kong. Once a contract has been executed, it should take approximately six months to
produce, ship, and install. HNPSP will also support provision o f supplies and equipment for this
laboratory. HNPSP will support travel for IEDCR staff to visit a functioning Techcomp lab at
the National Institute o f Communicable Diseases inIndia. The BSL-3 laboratory is expected to
maintain international certification to operate at the BSL-3 level.         There should also be
assurances from the Government o f Bangladesh that the resources are available for continued
operationof this facility after implementation o f HNPSP is completed.

72.     Because the development o f capacity to perform RT-PCR and virus isolation for
influenza will take time, IEDCR needs to have a firm agreement with ICDDRB for diagnostic
support until it has the necessary capacity in place. HNPSP will support the development o f
such an agreement, should it be necessary. HNPSP will also support shipment o f specimens to
international referral laboratories, as needed over the course o f the project, and participation o f
IEDCR in internationally-recognized quality assurance programs for influenza RT-PCR and
virus isolationdiagnostics.

C. StrengtheningHealthCareSystem PreparednessandResponseCapacity

C1. Personnelsafety equipment

73.      Steps must be taken to reduce the exposure o f persons involved in the care or the
investigation o f avian influenza. This includes laboratory workers. The potential routes o f
transmission are (i)  respiratory, and (ii) with contaminated surfaces. To protect against
                                           contact
these modes o f transmission, individuals use a standardized set o f equipment known as PPE
(personal protection equipment). This includes mask (N95 standard), gloves, gowns, and
booties. For aerosol generating situations, goggles are also worn. Because o f the hot and humid
climate in Bangladesh, these items must be lightweight and disposable (except for the goggles
which are re-useable). HNPSP will support acquisition and distribution o f PPE to in-patient
facilities and to the central laboratory. All district hospitals and the national referral hospital
should have at least 25 sets o f PPE present at all times. HNPSP will also support an initial
central stockpile o f 10,000 sets o f PPE, and annual replacement o f 50% to cover usage until the
end o f HNPSP. PPE should also be used by workers engaged in culling operations o f poultry
with avianinfluenza. PPE for this group is covered inAIPRP that deals with animal health.




                                                  69

C2. Purchaseof seasonalinfluenza vaccine doses

74.     Although trivalent seasonal influenza vaccine is an effective preventive measure to
reduce the public health burden o f this disease, its role in prevention and control o f avian
influenza i s limited. During the pre-pandemic phase when disease is largely acquired from
poultry exposure and the virus has not acquired person-to-person transmission characteristics,
seasonalinfluenza vaccine will reduce the likelihood o f co-infection o fpersons with both regular
humaninfluenza virus and avian influenza virus. This will reduce the potential for the virus to
reassort and acquire human influenza virus genetic material. Once sustained person-to-person
transmissibility has been attained by H5N1 virus or other avian strains, there i s no role for
seasonal vaccine. Because it is not feasible to vaccinate the entire population to prevent co-
infection, vaccine i s usually reserved for those at highrisk o f exposure to avian influenza. This
includes the same risk groups that would be offered prophylaxis, with the exception o fhousehold
contacts o f cases, which cannot be predicted in advance.          HNPSP will therefore support
acquisition o f limited quantities o f seasonal influenza vaccine to immunize health care workers
likely to take care o f patients with avian influenza during the pre-pandemic phase, investigative
teams (animal and human health), culling workers, and laboratory technicians likely to handle
live virus. This vaccine must be given annually to assure immunity is maintained. An annual
total o f 19,000 doses will be acquired to cover health care workers and others.

C3. Disease case management

a. Trainingof clinicians, health care workers andparamedics

75.      A well-trained public health and health-care workforce is crucial to approaching this
disease and minimizing morbidity and mortality during a pandemic.             Once guidelines and
protocols have been developed, an aggressive training campaign must be initiated and HNPSP
will support such activities, which should cover over 20,000 public healthpersonnel.

b. Purchase, storage and distribution of antivirals


76.      Antiviral medications are used for prophylaxis andtreatment o f avian influenza. Because
the H5N1 viruses responsible for human disease have been resistant to M2 inhibitors, the only
widely available option is the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir. Prophylaxis is indicated for
health care workers caring for persons with avian influenza, for disease investigative teams
 (animal and human), for close contacts (usually household members) o fpersons with the disease
 during the pre-pandemic phase, for laboratory workers with an unprotected exposure, and for
 culling workers. The dose and duration o fpost-exposure prophylaxis for adults i s one tablet (75
mg) daily for 10 days. Pre-exposure prophylaxis can be given longer (up to six weeks), but due
 to high cost it can be supported only in exceptional circumstances. For treatment, the adult
 dosage o f oseltamivir currently recommended i s one tablet twice daily for five days. For
pediatric purposes, the drug i s dosed based on body weight. To be effective for treatment,
 oseltamivir should be administered within 48 hours o f illness onset. Therefore, it needs to be
 distributedthroughout the country and not all canbe kept ina national stockpile. Inall locations,
 drug must be maintained in conditions (temperaturekumidity) specified by the manufacturer.
 Bangladesh currently has two manufacturers o f this drug. Ifthese companies are certified by the


                                                  70

World Health Organization, local acquisition should be used since it will result in savings, will
support local industry, and will facilitate distribution o f the drug. HNPSP will support
acquisition and distribution o f around 120,000 courses o f antiviral drugs (including a national
stock-pile). Furthermore, it will obtain 3,000 prophylaxis courses for culling workers. A 25%
annual re-supply rate will be supported during each year. Oseltamivir should be obtained inboth
the tablet and paediatric formulations at a ratio o f 3: 1(75% adult, 25% paediatric).

e. Purchase of hygienic and disinfection supplies

77.     Infection control i s very important inlimiting the spread o f influenza virus. This includes
surface disinfection and hand washing during patient care. HNPSP will support acquisition o f
sanitary items for use in health care facilities, particularly those with isolation facilities, and for
rapid response teams.       Disinfection materials include hypochlorite, absolute alcohol, and
detergent.

d. Purchase of supportivemedications

78.     To properly care for persons with influenza, other types o f medications must also be
available. These include antimicrobial agents to treat the secondary bacterial complications, and
medications to treat the symptoms o f disease (anti-pyretics and antitussives).          HNPSP will
support limited quantities o f the latter. Concerning antimicrobial agents, the component will
support acquisition o f agents that cover the most common pathogens producing secondary
complications    (Staphylococcus      aureus,   Streptococcus    pneumoniae,     and Haemophilus
influenzae). HNPSP will also support limitedreplacement o f these medications (25% annually).
Acquisition o f steroids cannot be supported as these have not been shown to be effective in the
treatment o f avian or seasonal influenza.

e. Health carefacilities upgrades

79.     At present, the capacity to isolate persons with suspected or confirmed avian influenzain
Bangladesh health care facilities i s limited. During both the pre-pandemic phase and during a
pandemic, it i s important that such facilities are available to reduce the potential for spread.
These facilities can also be used for other diseases that require patient isolation for optimal care,
and where developed, should not be reserved exclusively for use by avian influenza patients.
HNPSP will support limitedrenovations inhealth care facilities to create isolation spaces and to
provide necessary low-technology equipment. This includes the 64 district level hospitals and
the national referral hospital (the Asthma Hospital) in Dhaka.           Included in the equipment
category are items like oxygen generators and suction machinery.               Acquisition of high
technology equipment like mechanical ventilators i s not supported. If ventilation i s considered
necessary, the patient should be transported to a facility that can provide this support.

C4. PandemicPlanning

80.     Appropriately responding to avian influenza and to an influenza pandemic requires
planningand activities that may not often be utilized by public health officials. Duringthe pre-
pandemic phase, this includes isolation and quarantine, and during both the pre-pandemic and



                                                  71

pandemic phases measures like school closures, business closures, and cancellation o f events that
bring together large numbers o f persons (such events would facilitate rapid spread o f the
organism). Accomplishing such measures requires careful planning that involves many other
sectors of society, including other governmental bodies at the national, district, and local levels,
the business community, religious and community leaders, non-governmental organizations, etc.
These social distancing measures may have to be enforced by security and military personnel.
HNPSPwill support the development o fplans for implementation o f social distancingmeasures.

81.    Should an influenza pandemic occur, it will result in large numbers o f illpersons and
widespread disruption to society. Among the illwill be the health care workers who need to be
providing health care. Even if no health care workers became illthemselves, the health care
workforce would still need to be supplemented to care for all o f the illpersons. HNPSP will
support a planning process to address ways to supplement the health care workforce (surge
capacity) including recruitment o f a volunteer workforce or re-activation o f persons formerly
engaged in health care.     HNPSP will also support planning for mortuary needs during a
pandemic, and for limitedacquisition o f supplies that might be necessary for hygienic disposal o f
remains during a pandemic. To develop these plans, technical assistance will be necessary.
These plans should form the basis for table-top and field exercises discussed above.




                                                72

                                         Bangladesh
                Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject

              Annex 4: ProjectCoordinationandImplementationArrangements


1.     The implementation and coordination arrangements fall into three categories: (i)
implementation o f the national plan (NAIP); (ii)  implementation o f the AI program which, in
turn, consists of AIPRP and AI Component o f HNPSP; and (iii)     implementation o f the AIPRP
project. The implementation o f the project i s put in a broader context o f the national Plan and
the AI program.     Furthermore, the annex highlights the linkages and the need for proper
coordination between the Plan, the Program and the Project in order to minimize any overlap,
makeefficient use of scarceresources andachieve the development outcomes.

2.     Implementation of the National Plan: The Government o f Bangladesh has designated
M O F L and MOHFW to implement its national Plan (NAIP), with appropriate support from other
agencies, including MOEF and MOI. A National Advisory Committee (NAC), comprising 16
Ministers and a representative o f the Prime Minister's Secretariat, has been designated as the
apex coordinating body (see Figurel). Beneath the NAC, a National Multi-Sectoral Task Force
(NMTF) has been established with representation from a wide range o fpublic and private sector
agencies (see Figure2). The cost for implementing the Plan i s being borne by GOB.

3.      Implementation of the A I Program: The Avian Influenza Program for Bangladesh
consists o f two parts (a) Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (AIPRP, a new
project); and (b) Avian Influenza Component of HNPSP. The supervision o f the Avian
Influenza Program will include both the animal health (AIPRP) and the human health (Avian
Influenza Component o f HNPSP) aspects o f the avian influenza. The public health expert,
provided under the AIPRP but based inDGHS, will serve as the link between these two parts o f
the AI program(see Figure3).

4.      Implementation of the AIPRP Project: The World Bank supported AIPRP i s under the
Global Program for the Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response
(GPAI). The AIPRP, an emergency project, is designed to provide assistance for avian influenza
within the overall framework o f the GOB'S national Plan. The project would be implemented
over a period o f 5 years. A PCU i s being established inthe DLS under the Ministry of Fisheries
and Livestock (MOFL) to implement and coordinate the project activities, including
communication, procurement, financial management, safeguards, monitoring and reporting (see
Figure 4 and Figure 5).

5.      The PCU inthe DLS will be headed by the Project Director (PD) and will be responsible
for the overall coordination o f the project related activities.  The PD will have necessary
responsibility and authority to make necessary decisions, as provided inthe GOB regulations for
development projects. The PCU will be supervisedby the Project Steering Committee (PSC),
headed by Secretary, MOFL, and would share information with MOFL, MOEF, MOHFW, MOI
and the development partners, on a periodic basis. The PCU will monitor the implementation
progress o f AIPRP during implementation and will produce progresshpecial reports. The PCU


                                                73

would be staffed by appropriate staff and consultants for overall administration, coordination,
procurement, financial management, safeguards, and internal M&E (see Figure 5). Component
wise implementation arrangements are the following:

               Animal Health (Components I): This component will be implemented by DLS
               through its PCU, in collaboration with partner government agencies (BLRI and
               the Department o f Forest), private sector commercial poultry farmers' association
               andNGOsfor backyardpoultry farmers.

               Public Awareness and Information (Component 2): This component will be
               implemented by PCU, in collaboration with partner government agencies under
               the Ministry o f Information (MOI), private media partners, private sector
               commercial poultry farmers association, NGOs for backyard poultry farmers. A
               Technical Working Group (TWG), consisting o f representatives from all technical
               ministries, working in association with UNICEF team, has prepared a
               communication strategy which has been approved by the Government. An action
               plan and messages for different audience groups have also been prepared and
               some o f them have been disseminated following Government's approval process.
               This project would not only implement the relevant parts o f the communication
               strategy and action plan, but would also strengthen the strategy, action plan and
               messages dealing with the animal health aspects o f avian influenza.         These
               messages will be disseminated following the Government's approval process.
               Furthermore, the PCU will coordinate all the communication related activities
               with MOHFW, MOI, NGOs andthe private sector.

               Implementation Support and Monitoring & Evaluation (Component 3): This
               component would support the establishment o f PCU, headed by the Project
               Director, who will be responsible for the overall coordination o f the project
               related activities. The PCUwill report directly to the Project Steering Committee.
               The PCU will also share information with DLS, MOFL, MOHFW, MOEF, M O I
               and the development partners, on a periodic basis. The PCU will monitor the
               implementation progress during implementation and will produce periodical
               progress reports and special status reports, as needed.

6.      Technical Assistancefor AIPRP: The project would provide support for national and
international experts to assist with implementation, coordination and management (see Annex 10
for more details). Most, not all, o f the consultants would be on a short-term basis. The project
would also provide support for the incremental staffing needs o f the PCU, including M&E staff,
and operational cost for the PCU.

Monitoringand Evaluation

7.      The M&E arrangement, which will be part o f the overall Management Information
System(MIS) inthe PCU, will continuously and systematically monitor project implementation
activities, outputs and outcomes. The key indicators to be monitored include: preparation and
approval o f contingency plans; extent o f animal surveillance and laboratory testing; training o f



                                                 74

veterinary and health officers; readiness for outbreak containment; enactment o f containment
plans (as and when necessary); changes to legislation; fully developed human surveillance
systems and equipped laboratories; training o fhealth workers; weekly/monthly disease reporting;
preparation o f communication material and implementation o f communication strategy. More
details on the results framework andmonitoring are provided inAnnex 2.

8.      Internal M&E: A national M&E specialist i s included as a consultant to work within the
AIPRP PCU for the entire project period. He/she would be responsible for preparingthe M&E
program at the beginningo fthe Project, for training central and district staff inhow to record and
report data, and for producing regular reports for the PSC and the World Bank. He/she would
work closely with the PCUinpreparingquarterly progress/special reports.

9.      Independent Project Evaluation:        In addition, the PCU will appoint, using agreed
procurement guidelines and preferably through FAO, a team o f consultants for an independent
evaluation o f the Project. This team will carry out a base line survey for the key performance
indicators, collect data at a specified frequency, analyse those, andprepare a baseline, mid-term
andend-of-the-project evaluation reports for the Government anddevelopment partners.

10.     Implementation of the A I Component of HNPSP and Linkages with AIPRP: The AI
Component o f HNPSP will be implemented by MOHFW. The avian influenza activities have
been incorporated into the Communicable Disease Operational Plan under the Line Director
Communicable Disease; human health activities relating to AI will be monitored under the
HNPSP. To support an integrated monitoring and evaluation o f the AI Program, the MOHFW
will provide the PCU for AIPRP all the necessary information on the progress o f AI component
activities o f HNPSP. One public health expert and support for communication for the human
health activities will be provided from the AIPRP; procurement, financial management, and
reporting for human health activities will follow HNPSP agreed procedures. The public health
expert, located inthe DGHS, would report to the Line Director and support the linkage with the
AIPRP, dealing with the animal health. The monitoring indicators relevant to avian influenza
activities will be incorporated within the Results Framework to be monitored under HNPSP by
routine MOHFW systems. However, to provide an overall assessment o f the Avian Influenza
Program, the HNPSP team will supervise the Avian Influenza Component and provide all the
information to the AIPRP PCU and the Bank team to carry out a comprehensive assessment of
the AI Program.

11.     Linkages between the AI Program and the National Plan: According to the National
Plan, N A C will coordinate the implementation o f the Plan through NMTF. NAC will meet
quarterly and NMTF will meet on a monthly basis to review implementation status o f the Plan
(the frequency o f the meetingsmay be adjusted, dependingon the outbreak or need). A national
secretariat has been proposed in the Plan to facilitate coordination implementation. The AI
Program i s broadly a part o f the national Plan. The ministers o f MOFL and MOHFW will chair
the NAC, depending upon the pandemic phases. Inphase 1, the Honorable Minister o f MOFL
will be the chairperson, while in phase 2, the Honorable Minister o f MOHFW will have the
leading role. However, duringphase 3, HPAI activities will be carried out under the leadership
o fthe Honorable PrimeMinister.




                                                 75

12.      The NMTF will comprise o f representatives from relevant ministries, directorates,
professional bodies, business bodies, NGOs, civil society and nominated members. The NMTF
will take measures to implement decisions taken by the NAC. Each Ministry will establish a
Technical Committee at the Directorate level. These Technical Committees will be responsible
for developing sectoral strategies as well as ensuring effective and timely preparation and
response activities at all levels within their sector.


                                                                   Figure 1

  Implementation Arrangements for the National Avian Influenzaand Human Pandemic Influenza
                                Preparednessand ResponsePlan for Bangladesh (The Plan)




                                                        National Advisory
                                                        Committee (NAC)
                                                         (inter-ministerial)




                                                      National Multisectoral
                                                       Task Force (Nh4TF)


                                                    -               1
     National Technical                      National Technical                      National Technical                     PM's Office and
         Committee at                 -        Committee at            - Committeeat                            -             other Relevant
      Directorate Level                      Directorate Level                        Directorate Level                         Ministries
    ,        (Health)                           (Livestock)                                (Wildlife)
                    I                                 I                                                I




     Surveillance and Rapid                         Surveillance and Rapid
     Response Teams
     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Response Teams
                                                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          .Surveillance. Teams. . . . . .
                                                                                                      . . . . . . . . . . . .
     Diagnostic Team
     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Diagnostic Team
                                                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          Investigation Team
                                                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -
     Clinical Management Team
     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Culling, Disposaland                             DistrictLJpazila Coordination
                                                    DisinfectionTeam
     DistricVUpazila Coordination                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                    DistricVUpazila Coordination
                                                                            t
                                                                  Coordination

Source: GOB 2006, National Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan,
          Bangladesh.




                                                                         76

                                               Figure2

                  Coordination Arrangements for the National Avian Influenza and
      HumanPandemic Influenza Preparednessand ResponsePlan for Bangladesh (The Plan)




                                        National Advisory
                                           Committee




         Upazila Influenza                     Upazila                    Upazila Influenza
           Management                        Multisectoral                  Management
            Committee                        Coordination                    Committee
             (Health)                        Committee                       (Livestock)



Source: GOB 2006, National Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan,
        Bangladesh, Annex XII.




                                                   77

                                     Figure 3

                   Implementation and Coordination o f the
           Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Program




                              Avian Influenza
                              Preparedness and   +
                          ResponseProgram
                          (TheAIProgram)

    h
    I   Ministryof                                    Ministryof
        Health and     1                         I   Fisheries and
      Family Welfare                                  Livestock




      HumanHealth                                   Animal Health



                             ~



Avian Influenza Component                      Avian Influenza Preparedness
 o fHealth, Nutrition and                      and responseProject (AIPRP)
Population Sector Program                              (TheProject)
         (HNPSP)


            I
            I                                 7
                                                 Project C;;-I?       Unit   1




                                        78

                                 Figure4

Organizational Structure for the Implementation and Coordination o fthe
    Avian Influenza Preparednessand ResponseProject (AIPRP)




                          Project Steering                    MOEF
 MOHFW                      Committee                          and
                               (PSC)                           MOI




~
                                 PCU
   DLS                     ------------_-_----                BLRI
                                 DLS




       Legend:
       MOFL       MinistryofFisheries andLivestock
       MOEF       MinistryofEnvironment andForest
       M O I      MinistryofInformation
       MOHFW      MinistryofHealthandFamilyWelfare
       DLS        Department o f Livestock Services
       BLRI       Bangladesh Livestock ResearchInstitute
       PCU        Project CoordinationUnit
       HNPSP      Health, NutritionandPopulation Support Program
       D M C      Department o f Mass Communication
       DOF        Department o f Forest
       AI         Avian Influenza


                                     79

                                Figure 5

Organizational Structure of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the
     Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (AIPRP)

                       r    Management




Animal Health                                          Communication




                          ______________-___
                                PCU

    Safeguards                  DLS




                                                          Financial
Procurement                                           Management


                      I                            I
                          Monitoring and
                             Evaluation




                                   80

                                                   Bangladesh
                    Avian Influenza Preparednessand ResponseProject
                                   Annex 5: ProjectCosts And Financing

                    Table 1:AvianInfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject:
                                       EstimatedCosts by Components

                                                                              (US%'000)                   Yo of
                         Components                                                                       Total
                                                                                                 YO       Base
                                                                     Local     Foreign  Total  Foreign    Costs
1.Animal health                                                       9,826       5,700 15,526      37          79
1.1Enhancingprevention and preparednesscapability                         50          0     50       0           0
1.2 Strengthening diseasesurveillance and diagnostic capacity         5,210       3,867  9,077      43          46
1.3 Strengthening control programs and containment plans                 652        450  1,102      41           6
1.4 Improvingbio-security inpoultry production andtrade                  500          0    500       0           2
1.5 Support for surveillance of migratory birds                       1,389         143  1,532       9           8
1.6 Contingency fund                                                  2,025       1,240  3,265      38          17
2. Public awareness and information                                   1,468         315  1,783      18          9
2.1 Capacity building                                                    100          0    100       0          0
2.2 Informationand communication services                             1,368         315  1,683      19          9
3. Implementation support and monitoring & evaluation                 1,372         945  2,317      41          12
3.1 Implementation and technical support                              1,122         945  2,067      46          11
3.2 Monitoring and evaluation                                            250          0    250       0           1
Total base costs                                                     12,666       6,960 19,626      35         100
Physical contingencies (4%)                                              507        278    785      35          4
Price contingencies (3%)                                                 380        209    589      35          3
Total AIPRP costs                                                    13,553       7,447 21,000      35         107

                             Table 2: Avian InfluenzaComponentof HNPSP:
                                        EstimatedCosts by Components

                                                                                                      YOof Total
                         Components                                          (US% '000)         YO      costs
                                                                    Local      Foreign Total  Foreign
Avian Influenza
1 Enhancingpublic healthprogramplanning and coordination                 265       140    405      35            3
2 Strengthening national public health surveillance system            3,486      1,508  4,994      30           31
3 Strengthening healthcare systemprep & responsecapacity              4,423      6,178 10,601      58           66
Total base costs                                                      8,174      7,826 16,000      49          100
Total AI program costs (including contingencies for AIPRF')          21,727     15,273 37,000      41          100

Note:    Contingencies are excluded from the Avian Influenza Component o f the HNPSP because the HNF'SP i s linked
         to the Government o f Bangladesh's annual budget cycle, through a Medium Term Expenditure Plan, which
         allows for adjustments to be made inthe event o f cost fluctuations.




                                                           81

             Table 3: Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponse Project:
                   EstimatedCosts by Components and Sub-components

                                                                         % ofTotal
                  Components/Sub-components                      US$ '000Base Costs
1.Animalhealth                                                    15,526        79
1.1Enhancing preventionandpreparednesscapability                       50         0
1.1.1Technical expertise onavianinfluenza
1.1.2 Adapting national policy framework
1.1.3 Improvingprevention and contingency planning                     50         0

1.2 Strengtheningdisease surveillanceanddiagnosticcapacity        9,7077        46
1.2.1 Strengtheningofveterinary services
1.2.2 Strengtheninganimal disease surveillance and lab diagnosis   9,027        46
1.2.3 Strengtheningapplied veterinary research                         50         0

1.3 Strengtheningcontrolprogramsandcontainmentplans                1,102          6
1.3.1 Targeting virus elimination at the source                       552         3
1.3.2 Personnelsafety                                                 550         3

1.4 Improvingbio-securityinpoultryproductionandtrade                  500        2

1.5 Support for surveillanceofmigratorybirds                       1,532         8
1.6 Contingencyfund                                                3,265        17

2. Publicawareness andinformation                                  1,783         9
2.1 Capacity building                                                 100        0
2.2 Information and communication services                         1,683         9

3. Implementationsupport andmonitoring& evaluation                 2,317        12
3.1 Implementation andtechnical support                            2,067        11
3.2 Monitoring& evaluation                                            250         1

Totalbase costs                                                   19,626       100
Physical contingencies(4%)                                            785        4
Price contingencies (3%)                                              589        3
TotalAIPRP Costs                                                  21,000       107




                                               82

                      Table 4: Avian Influenza Componentof HNPSP:
                    EstimatedCosts by Components and Sub-components

                                                                                            YOof Total
                    Components/Sub-components                                    US$ '000   BaseCosts
Avian Influenza

1.Enhancingpublic healthprogramplanningandcoordination                                 405          3
2. Strengtheningnationalpublichealthsurveillancesystem                               4,994         31
2.1 Strengthening disease monitoring andreporting                                    3,2 18        20
2.2 Strengthening public health laboratory network                                   1,776         11

3. Strengtheningof health care systempreparedness and
   responsecapacity                                                                 10,601         66
3.1 Personnel safety equipment                                                         613          4
3.2 Purchase of seasonal influenzavaccine doses                                        912          6
3.3 Disease cases management                                                         9,013         56
3.4 Pandemic planning                                                                   63          0

Totalbasecosts

TotalAI programcosts (including contingencies for AIPRP)                           37,000


Note: Contingencies are excluded from the Avian Influenza Component of the HNPSP because the HNPSP is
      linked to the Government of Bangladesh's annual budget cycle, through a Medium Term Expenditure
      Plan, which allows for adjustments to be made inthe event o f cost fluctuations.




                                                   83

I




z z   N b
       m  N  c.l l n m




3                3 3




  i2
  .3




                          * **

n




 ? Z  N b
        m N N  I n m




               3 -

                                           Bangladesh
                Avian Influenza PreparednessandResponse Project

                             Annex 6: ProcurementArrangements


Procurement Environment: The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), broadly
accepted by the Government and issued in 2002, identified inadequate public procurement
practices as major impediment affecting project implementation in Bangladesh. Procurement
deficiencies include: absence o f a sound legal framework, protracted bureaucratic procedures
allowing multi-point rent seeking, lack o f critical mass o f professionals to manage public
procurement, inordinate delays in completing the procurement process and ineffective contract
administration and absence o f mechanisms for ensuring transparency and accountability in
public procurement.

Procurement Reform Actions: To carry out procurement reform, following the CPAR
recommendations,     the Government i s        implementing World Bank-supported a Public
Procurement Reform Project (PPRP), which is scheduled to close in June 2007. As part o f the
reform under PPRP, the Government has established a Central Procurement Technical Unit
(CPTU) within the ImplementationMonitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED) o f the Ministry
o f Planning, with staffing fimded from own resources. The Government issued Public
Procurement Regulations 2003 and associated implementationprocedures, including streamlined
procurement approval process, delegation o f financial powers, and standard set o f documents for
procurement o f goods, works, and services. The Parliament has now passed a procurement law.
The effectiveness o f the law andthe issuance o f the rules are expected to take place inthe near
future. The law and the regulations contain most o f the international public procurement best
practices. Notable features include: (i)non-discrimination o f bidders; (ii)      effective and wide
advertising o fprocurement opportunities; (iii) public opening o fbids inone place; (iv) disclosure
of award o f all contracts above specified threshold in the CPTU's website; (v) clear
accountability for delegation and decision making; (vi) annual post procurement audit (review);
(vii) sanctions for fraudulent and corrupt practice; and (viii) review mechanism for handling
bidders protests. Concurrently, in order to build procurement management capacity, CPTU, in
collaboration with ILO and local institutes, has developed a critical mass o f 25 national trainers
andprovided training to about 1500 staff of260 organizations.

        The new regulations are being implemented by all public sector entities with varying
degrees. The landscape o f procurement has been reshaped in the last several years due to the
procurement reform with harmonized procedures. The new regulations have also increased
awareness among the stakeholders (such as the procuring entities, bidding community) by
building confidence. Clearly, there are still a number o f potential challenges in cross-cutting
governance, institutional, and implementation issues, including inadequate enforcement o f
regulations and delegated financial powers, inadequate adherence to the provision o f streamlined
procurement approval process, delays in contract award for large value contracts, ineffective
contract administration, allegations o f fraud and corruption, andpolitical interference.




                                                 86

Avian Influenza Program: The proposed Avian Influenza Program consists o f two parts (a)
Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (new project); and (b) Avian Influenza
Component o f the on-going HNPSP. Total Value o f the Program i s US$37 million. The
procurement arrangements will be discussed separately for the new andthe existing projects. The
associated procurement risks and capacity assessment are described inthe following.

ProcurementArrangementsfor the Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject:
General:
       Total value o f the project is US$21 million; IDA Credit will finance US$16 million,
Avian HumanInfluenza Trust Fund (AHITF) will provide a grant o f about US$3 million and
GOB will finance US$ 2 million, in addition to in-kind contributions. Total procurement o f
US$16.30 million under the project will involve goods o f US$10.75 million, followed by
consultancy services o f US$2.38; training, studies and workshops o f US$2.45 million; and civil
works ofUS$0.72 million.

       Procurement under the project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits o f May 2004, Revised October
2006 (Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers of May 2004, Revised October 2006 (Consultant Guidelines). Within
the overall context o f Bank guidelines, local procurement o f goods, works, and services (for
which the shortlist entirely comprised o f national consultants) will follow the Government's
Public Procurement Regulations 2003- PPR (goods: < US$300,000 per contract, works: <
US$500,000 per contract, and consulting services- firms:        -=US$200,000 per contract and
individual consultant- < US$50,000 per contract) and in case o f any conflicts between the two
procedures or ambiguous/conhsing interpretation Bank Guidelines will prevail.

       All expected major procurement of goods and consultants' services has been announced
in the General Procurement Notice (GPN), published in the dgMarket and United Nations
Development Business (UNDB), andit will be updated annually.

Procurement Components and Responsibility: All three components o f the project, i.e.,
Animal Health, Public Awareness and Information, and Implementation Support and Monitoring
and Evaluationwill be implementedby the MinistryofFisheries and Livestock (MOFL) through
the Department o f Livestock Services (DLS). A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the DLS
will handle the actual administration, coordination, and implementation o f these components,
including procurement and financialmanagement.

ProcurementCapacity and Risk Assessment: Procurement capacity assessment o f DLS has
been carried out with a view to: evaluate the capability o f the implementing agency and o f the
adequacy o f systems inplace to administer Bank-financed procurement and assess the risks that
may negatively affect ability o f the agency to carry out the procurement process. DLS has no
experience o f any World Bank-financed project.         DLS is not immune from the systemic
deficiencies mentioned above and have considerable weaknesses in terms o f internal control,
award delays, transparency, management o f procurement process, and handling complaints. In
order to safeguard against this and that general conditions for public procurement inthe country,
the project is rated "high risk" from procurement operation and contract administration


                                                87

viewpoint.    In order to minimize the risk, several measures including a procurement risk
mitigation framework havebeen introduced.

Measuresfor ImprovingGovernanceinProcurement.

        Several measures have been introduced and agreed with the Government for improving
governance in procurement and for minimizing procurement risks under the Project.               All
elements o f risk mitigation, described in the following paragraphs, are applicable not only to
DLS and M O F L but also for other concerned ministries/implementing agencies involved in the
implementation o f the Project, including MOHFWthat i s responsible for implementing the avian
influenza component of the existing HNPSP. The three main pillars o f improving procurement
related governance risk mitigation framework are: (a) establishment o f Procurement Core Team
(PCT); (b) system o f handling complaints; and (c) disclosure o f information and procurement
website.

ProcurementCore Team (PCT): A PCT will be formed inDLS to oversee the procurement
process under the project. The PCT will consist o f at least five members, o f which at least two
external independent experts (technical and procurement) will be from outside the
government/public sector entities andwill be recruited usingBank guidelines. These experts are
likely to be of knownreputationfrom professional bodies, universities, academics, NGOs or the
private sector. The PCT will: (i)    review the bidding documents for large contracts that are
subject to prior review; (ii)
                            receive bids, evaluate bids, and prepare bid evaluation reports, along
with recommendations for the award o f contract; (iii) out the ex-post review o f bidding
                                                         carry
procedures, followed in smaller contracts that are not subject to prior review; and (iv) make field
visits to a number o f sites and check the quality o f procurement of goods and works and
performance o f the suppliers/contractors.     As per the government's delegation of financial
powers and the public procurement processing and approval procedures within the overall
framework o f the PPR, the PCT will submit bid evaluation report directly to the contract
approving authority without tiers inbetween. The cost o f these two experts can be met from the
Project.

System for Handling Complaints: A credible system of handling complaints will be put in
place inMOFL. The salient features o f the system will be an oversight o f a complaint database,
a standard protocol with appropriate triggers for carrying out investigations, and taking action
against involved parties. The systemwill be developed and managed by DLS, with an oversight
o f the PCT. The system will be supported by a database containing information about all
procurement steps and other relevant information such as official estimates (global unit prices),
all bidders (individuals, companies, joint ventures, owners information, etc.), and all bids. Inthis
regard, the CPTU's MIS database can be linked to these entities inphases. For ICB/international
selection o f consultants and all contracts above US$lOO,OOO, the Bank prescribed complaint
redress mechanismwill apply.

Disclosureof InformationandProcurementWebsite: All information relating to biddingand
procurement above the specified thresholds, as per PPR, will be published inCPTU's website, in
addition to the Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project website. The information,
among others, will include invitation to bid, biddocuments and RFPs, wherever applicable, latest



                                                 88

information on procurement pldcontracts, status o f evaluation once completed, contract award
information with adequate details and poor performance o f contractors, suppliers and
consultants, including list o f debarred firms. The website would be accessible to all bidders and
interested persons equally and free o f charge.

Inaddition, the following additional steps, whichhavebeendiscussedandagreedwithDLS, will
be followed as a part o fprocurement andimplementation:

               Alert DLS officials/stafl     The MOFL in reference to the provisions in the PPR
               and the legal agreement signed with IDA, will issue an alert letter to DLS,
               including their all field offices notifying about the possible consequences o f
               corrupt and similar behaviour in procurement practices and actions to be taken
               against the officials/staff ifget involved insuch practices. Moreover, the ministry
               will highlight that in case o f non-compliance o f the Bank's procurement
               guidelines, the Bank may take remedial actions (Le., withdrawal o f fund,
               misprocurement) against the concerned packages and slices.

               Alert bidders: DLS and its all field offices, through a notification, will alert all
               bidders on consequences o f corrupt practices (fraud and corruption, collusion,
               coercion, etc.). The alert message, among others, will include that if bidders are
               found to have adopted such practices, they would be debarred from subsequent
               bidding processes in conformity with PPR and the Bank's Guidelines, as
               appropriate. In addition, in the pre-bidmeeting, the bidders will be clarified for
               preparationo fbid correctly.

               Multiple Dropping: Multiple dropping o f bids (bids submitted inmore than one
               location and opened in one location) will not be permissible for all procurement
               underthe Bank-financedproject.

               Bid opening committee (BOC): A formal structured BOC will be constituted for
               each contract package, as per the provisions o f the PPR.            For prior review
               contracts, the BOC will include at least one independent expert o fthe PCT.

               Bid opening minutes: During the same day o f bid opening, photocopies o f the
               bid opening minutes (BOM), signed by bid opening officials and the bidders'
               representatives, with readout bid prices o f participating bidders will be shared
               with the bidders and sent to the MOFL either by email, fax or special messenger.
               Also, for prior review packages, copy o f such BOM will be sent to the World
               Bankthe same day ofbidopening).

                Timeliness of bid evaluation and contract award: Inaccordance with the
               procurement approval process o fthe Government, bid evaluation reports will
                include certificates o f impartiality and will be submitted directly to the contract
                approving authority following the stipulated timelines. PCT will put extra effort
                to ensure award o f contract within the initial period o fbidproposal validity so
                that no extension o fvalidity i s required. PCT will closely monitor the timing,



                                                   89

       takinginto account that the World Bankmay not finance contracts which are not
       awarded within the period o fbidvalidity.

(vii)  Sub-delegation of financial powers:           DLS will sub-delegate decision-making
       authority to its field level, as per the GOB'S financial delegation notification,
       wherever appropriate in light o f Public Procurement Regulation (PPR) 2003. All
       field offices shall ensure exercise o f their authority inthe field o f bid evaluation,
       contract award, and contract administration without referring them to the higher
       authority.

(viii) Action for corruptpractices -by bidders: Incases o f possible collusion found or
       established for reasons i.e. same hand-writing, identical unit prices in BOQs,
       consecutive serial numbers in bank guarantees for bid security etc, procuring
       entities will initiate actions, including debarring contractorshuppliers,             as
       appropriate in accordance with PPR and Bank's guidelines.               If any firm is
       debarred, the list o f debarred firms will appear in the web sites o f CPTU, and o f
       the entity, if applicable, and the debarment notice will be circulated to all field
       offices and other government/public sector offices, putting it as a lesson to
       discourage corrupt or similar behaviour. DLS will share such information with
       the World Bankregularly.

 (ix)  Action for corrupt and similar practices - by GOB staf$            Incases ofpossible
       corrupt or similar practices, M O F L will thoroughly investigate it and if
       involvement o f GOB staff i s established, they will take appropriate/disciplinary
       action against those concerned, strictly in accordance with the services rules. In
       addition, sanction provisions as per the PPR will apply.

  (x)  Low competition among bidders and high price of bids: The case(s) o f low
       competition (not solely based on number o f bidders) coupled with high priced
       bids will be reviewedby the PCT. The review and decision inthis regard would
       be in the context of qualification criteria, the contract size, location and
       accessibility o f the site, capacity o f the local contractorshuppliers (for smaller and
       non-attractive contracts), etc. In logical cases, DLS may go for changing the
       scope o fwork.

 (xi)  Measures to reduce coercivepractices: Upon receiving allegations o f coercive
       practices resulting in low competition, DLS will look into the matter and take
       appropriate measures. For prior review contracts, observations o f DLS will be
        shared with the Bank, along with the evaluation reports.              DLS may seek
        assistance from law enforcing agencies to provide adequate security for bidders
       during bid submission. For ICB contracts, provision for bid submission through
       InternationaVNational Courier Services will be allowed and confirmation o f the
       receipt o f the bidwill be informed to the bidder through e-mail.

 (xii) Rebidding: In case o f re-bidding, DLS will enquire into the matter, record and
       highlightthe grounds ofre-bidding(i.e. corruptionor similar, highbidprices etc.)
        along with recommended actions to be taken. For prior review cases, all such


                                          90

        detailed reports will be sent to the Bank. The Bank may not finance contracts
        recommended for rebidding and take W h e r remedial measures, if inthe opinion
        of the Bank, it is determined that collusion, corruption or similar practices have
        been adopted inthe biddingprocess.

 (xiii) Filing and record-keeping: DLS will preserve records and all documents
        regarding their public procurement, in accordance with provisions o f the PPR.
        These records will be made readily available on request for audit, investigation or
        review by the Bank.

 (xiv)  Procurement Plan in websites: The procurement plan o f the project will be
        publishedinthe website o f CPTU andAIRRP, and updated semi-annually.

  (xv)  Procurement monitoring information in websites: DLS will furnish to CPTU
        information o f their public procurement processing activities, as per provisions o f
        PPR. They will enter all information related to procurement monitoring into the
        database software (to be established) andtransmit the information to CPTU online
        or offline, to be incorporated into CPTU's central M I S database.        Quarterly
        reports will be generated for monitoring procurement performance o f DLS and
        publishedinthe website o f CPTU and/or entities. These reports will be submitted
        to the Bank.

 (xvi)  Publication of award ofcontract in websites: DLS, withintwo weeks o f contract
        award, will publish in its (if applicable) and CPTU's websites the following
        information: identity o f contract package, date o f advertisement, number o f bids
        sold, number o f submitted bids, number o f responsive bids, brief reasons for
        rejection o f bids, name o f the winning bidder and the price it offered, date o f
        notification o f award, date o f contract signing, proposed completion date o f
        contract as well as brief description o f the contract awarded.      For contracts
        following    International   Competitive    Bidding (ICB)      procedures,   Direct
        Contracting for goods and works, Single Source Selection o f consultants and all
        other pertinent consultant contract for firms, DLS will publishnotice o f award o f
        such contracts in UNDB Online and Development Gateway Market (dgMarket),
        in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts awarded
        under the NCB procedures should include publication ofresults o f evaluation and
        o f the award o fthe contract nationally/locally.

(xvii)  Complaints handling mechanism:             DLS, for procurement under national
        competitive bidding (NCB), will enforce a complaint handling mechanism in
        accordance with the provisions o f the PPR including submission and disposal o f
        complaints within the timeline stipulated therein. Inthe offices o f PCU, they will
        introduce a complaint box and duringpre-bid meetings, bidders will be informed
        o ftheir rights to complain. For ICB, complaints will be handled as per the Bank's
        Guidelines.

(xviii) Latepayments and liquidated damages: DLS will ensure timely payment o fbills
        o f the suppliers/contractors/consultants as per the provisions o f the contract.


                                          91

             Interest for delayed payments beyond a specified period will be stated in the
             bidding documents. For delays in implementation, liquidated damages will be
             imposed, as per the contract.

      (xix)  Post procurement audit (review): As per the provision o f the PPR, DLS will
             carry out annual post procurement audit (review) based on sample contracts by
             hiringchartered accounting firm (with international affiliation), share the findings
             o f the report with the Bank, and will initiate actionshteps for improving
             procurement practices, as appropriate.        This is in addition to the IDA's
             Procurement Post Review that would cover a minimum o f 20% post review
             contracts consistent with the level o frisk.

       (xx)  Oversight by PCT: The PCT will provide this function. This monitoring team
             will review compliance with the above actions by all field offices, carry out time
             to time filed inspections, review the cases on corrupt and similar practices, review
             contract award and management issues (i.e. delays in award, liquidated damages,
             delayed payments, etc.), prepare reports on monitoring o f contracts and submit
             quarterly report to the Director General DLS, covering all the above items, and
             the same will be submittedto the Bank.

      (xxi)  Special training course: Prior to the start o f the project, DLS will arrange a two-
             day special training course, covering Bank's Guidelines and PPR. All officials
             handling procurement are required to participate in this training. Besides, the
             training schedule stipulated below i s required to be fully met. No staff should be
             allowed to handle procurement without appropriate procurement training.

     (xxii)  Training-bidding community: DLS will also conduct procurement workshops/
             seminars for the bidding community on Bank's procedures, PPR, corruption and
             biddingprocess.

    (xxiii)  E-Procurement: In order to minimize collusive and coercive bidding practices,
             with a medium term perspective, DLS will take initiative to introduce e-
             procurement in their system with its own IT infrastructure, under the overall
             framework o f CPTU's central portal.         When the bidding environment in
             Bangladesh will be assessed as ready, they will adopt e- procurement on a pilot
             basis.

    (xxiv)   NCB conditions to be added: i)Post biddingnegotiations shall not be allowed
             with the lowest evaluated or any other bidder. ii)Bids shouldbe submitted and
             opened in public in one location immediately after the deadline for submission.
             iii)Rebiddingshallnotbecarried-outwithouttheIDA'spriorconcurrence.


Other Actions: Other actions taken or to be taken, during implementation to improve the
procurement governance, are:




                                              92

        (a)     contracts would be awarded within the initial bid validity period without any
                extension;

         (b)    DLS will hire at least one independent procurement consultant and one
                independent technical expert to assist them as outlined in the above governance
                improvement plan. This i s in addition to one local procurement consultant to be
                hired for the entire project period. The same procurement expert can provide
                services to relevant agencies; and

         (c)    DLS, by July 15, 2007, will submit a training plan for all concerned procurement
                staff that will undergo procurement training during the next two years. The
                Bangladesh Public Procurement Reform Project has adequate provision for
                training o fprofessionals for these two ministries involved inimplementing the AI
                Program.

With the above arrangements, the procurement under the project is likely to be effective and
transparent, resulting in smooth implementation o f the project leading to achievement o f the
project development objectives. However, procurement process and implementation o f the
contracts would be reviewed every six months by the Bank, and adjustments or corrections will
be made, as appropriate.
ProcurementArrangements:
Overall procurement arrangements with tentative amounts are giveninTable A.

Procurementof Works.            Civil works are primarily in Component 1 related to improvement
o f diagnostic laboratory capacity for animal health and some O&M works. Because o f the nature
of the schemes, all civil works at this stage are expected to be small and may not attract
international contractors, though some provisions have been kept.
         (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works contracts estimated to cost
              more than US$2.0 million equivalent per contract may beprocured usingICB.
        (ii)NationalCompetitiveBidding NCB:Civilworkscontractsestimatedtocostless
                                               -
              thanUS$2.0 millionequivalent per contract maybeprocuredusingNCB.


Procurementof Goods. Generally goods will beprocuredusingICB (except vaccines, drugs,
etc.), followed byN C B and national shopping for small valued contracts.

        (i)   ICB: Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or
              more per contract will be procured using ICB. This includes large value laboratory
              and diagnostic equipment, medical equipment, etc.
        (ii) NCB: Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000
              equivalent per contract may be procured using NCB.             This includes office
              equipment andvehicles etc.
        (iii) Shopping S: Goods o f very small contracts or individual purchases o f off-the-
                        -
              shelf items may be procured, through prudent shopping procedures.



                                                 93

       (iv) Direct Contracting     - DC:     Computer software, books journals and training
             materials with individual contract costing less than US$2,000 equivalent may be
             procured following DC. Pre-fabricated BSL-3 LAB (Bio-safety level 3 laboratory)
             will be procured through direct contracting method from Techcomp Holding
             Company, HongKong. Estimatedcost for this LABi s around US$ 700,000.

       (v)   Procurement from UN agencies: Procurement o f PPEs, critical vaccines and
             diagnostic reagents will be procured through FAO.

Rationales for Direct Contracting of Prefabricated BSL-3 from Techcomp Holding
Company, Hong Kong: The key reasons for direct contracting o f the pre-fabricated BSL-3
laboratory are as follows:

               The available current information and internet searches show only one supplier
               providing hlly equippedstate o f the art pre fabricated BSL-3 units;

               Enquiries inthe region reveal that the IndianNational Institute o f Communicable
               Diseases (NICD) in New Delhi has procured the prefabricated BSL-3 units from
               Techcomp Holding Company, HongKongthrough direct contracting;

               The emergency nature o f the program warrants that Bangladesh builds up its
               BSL-3 capacity quickly. A pre-fabricated BSL-3 laboratory has a lead time o f
               about 6 months and i s far shorter than setting up a new BSL-3 facility involving
               extensive construction;

               A major advantage would be in terms o f its regular maintenance by the only
               available supplier. This would make the operation and maintenance o f the prefab
               laboratorymuch easier;

               Consultation with NICD, New Delhi, reveal that the cost o f installing and
               operating a pre-fabricated laboratory i s much lower than building a new facility
               which will not be cost effective inBangladesh both from the point o f initial cost
               andrecurrent operational costs.

Consultants' Services and Training

Major consultancy assignments relate to training and technical assistance, besides substantial
amount o f contracts to UNagencies.

         (a)   Quality- and Cost- Based Selection (QCBS): Consulting services through firms
               estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more per contract will be procured
               following QCBS.

         (b)   Fixed Budget Selection (FBS): Services through firms estimated to cost less than
               US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured following FBS in
               accordance with the Borrower's Procurement Regulations.



                                               94

               Single-Source Selection (SSS): Specific consultants' services through firms,
               satisfjmg Consultants' Guidelines (paragraph 3.9 to 3.13) andwith estimated cost
               less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, with the Association's prior
               agreement, may be procured following SSS.

               Selection of UN agencies: FA0 will be contracted for all technical assistance
               services on sole source basis.

               Individual Consultants (IC): Services for assignments, estimated to cost
               US$50,000 or more, for which teams o f personnel are not required and the
               experience and qualifications o f the individual are the paramount requirement,
               will be procured through individuals in accordance with Section V o f the
               Consultants Guidelines.       All other individual consultants may be selected
               following Borrower's Procurement Regulations. Individuals will be selected on
               the basis o ftheir qualifications for the assignment.

Procurement through UNAgencies. Rationale for single sourcing of UNAgencies and for
allowing them to use their own methods of procurement:

Two UN agencies (FA0 and WHO) have been closely involved in the preparation of the
Government's Avian Influenza Plan. FA0 i s also providing technical assistance services for
avian influenza activities inBangladesh which are financed by USAID and ADB. The GOB and
Bank have been working closely with FA0 and WHO during the preparation of the proposed
Avian Influenza Program.        The Government o f Bangladesh has proposed for continued
involvement o f FA0 and WHO during implementation andwould like to hire them for providing
TA services on sole source basis.

Overall rationale:      The rationales for their need in providing technical services during
implementation are as follows:

       (a)   The need for providingtechnical andoperational continuity;
       (b)   The importance o f international experience and expertise that they bring, especially
             as avian influenza i s not an issue that Bangladesh has dealt with inthe past;
       (c)   The value added in terms o f synergies with other activities being carried out by
             these agencies in the area o f avian influenza prevention and control - independent
             o fthe project;
       (d)   The requirement o f the program to follow international norms and guidelines,
             which are generally prepared under the leadership o fthese organizations;
       (e)   Well-known capacity constraints within the Government system; and
       (f)   The emergency nature o f the problem which warrants a rapid reaction and response
             time, which is difficult under the existing Government rules andprocedures.

Rationale to select FA0 for TA services: FA0 i s the lead technical agency in implementing
the Global Strategy for HAP1control and prevention. FA0 will be responsible for providing
technical services through a number o f experts (both international & national) for the Project.
The keyrationales are as follows:



                                                  95

             Given the emergency nature o f the project requiring mobilization of consultants
             (both short-term and long-term) to respond to the demand o f avian flu, it would be
             very hard for the GOB to identify and contract these consultants from the
             international market in a timely manner.       Given limited capacity within DLS,
             technical services from FA0will be essential to implement this project;

             FA0 is maintaining a pool o f consultants (both international and national) with
             identified qualifications and experience in the region who could be rapidly
             mobilized. The Crisis Management Centre (CMC) at FA0HQhas been established
             solely with this purpose to deploy experts within 24-48 hrs inemergency;

             The selection o f experts inFA0 is highly competitive, based on their qualifications
             and international experience. As per the established practice, FA0 usually prepares
             the list o f consultants after thorough evaluation o f the CVs, their areas o f interest
             and international experience. FA0 identifies national consultants through FA0
             Country Representations on a competitive basis;

             The Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases (ECTAD) has been
             established in FAO, Rome.          The Regional Office o f ECTAD has also been
             established in Bangkok in Thailand in order to quickly respond to avian influenza
             related emergencies.

Rationale to select FA0 for supply of vaccines and diagnostic reagents: Majorjustifications
are as follows:

        (a)  There are more than 20 vaccine manufacturers across several countries
             manufacturing H5 vaccines for poultry; several o f them from China and some
             South-East Asian countries with uncertain quality assurance. FA0 recommends the
             use o f specified quality vaccines which are manufactured as per World Animal
             Health Organization (OIE) guidelines. Some o f the multinational pharmaceutical
             concerns are producingvery good quality vaccines which havehelpedincontrolling
             the disease in some o f the countries which sought direct assistance from FAO. As
             the lead technical agency inanimal health, FA0 has a definite advantage to identify
             the most suitable vaccine produced as per OIE guidelines for which the country
             capacity i s limited. Furthermore, FA0 also has its own competitive procedure to
             select their suppliers;

        (b)  The diagnostic reagents are produced in the Reference Laboratories which respond
             to the request o f FA0 for the quick supply rather than responding to individual
             countries. Inmost o f the cases, the air freight charges far exceed the actual cost o f
             the reagents no matter how large the requirements are. Due to increased demand o f
             these reagents there i s usually a long waiting list whereas FAO's request is
             processed on a priority basis since FA0 i s the lead technical agency in
             implementing the Global Strategy for HAP1control and prevention. FA0 has a
             streamlined delivery systemwith substantially lower air freight charges.



                                                 96

IncrementalOperatingCosts.

"Incremental Operating Costs" means: (i)expenditures incurred for the operation and
maintenance o f facilities, equipment and vehicles used for Project implementation, including,
without limitation, office rental, vehicle rental, hel, routine repair and maintenance of
equipment, vehicles and office premises, communication costs, use o f internet costs, stationeries
and other office supplies, and costs o f translation, printing, photocopying and advertising; (ii)
transportation costs and subsistence allowances for staff in travel status for Project
implementation; (iii)  bank charges; and (iv) salaries and allowances o f incremental staff assigned
for Project implementationbut excluding salaries o fthe Recipient's civil servants.

ProcurementandSelectionPlanning

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. The Planwill cover the initial 18 months o f the
project and will be updated annually covering always the next 18 months o f project
implementation. It will also be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's external
website. Prior to issuance o f any invitation for bids for procurement o f goods and works and
selection o f services, the proposed Plan shall be furnished to the World Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 1 o f Appendix 1 to the respective
Guidelines. Procurement of goods and works and selection o f all consultants will be undertaken
inaccordance withPlansapprovedbytheWorldBank.

Use of Standard Bidding and Contract Documents. For ICB procurement o f goods and
works, the use o f IDA'S Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) is mandatory.                  For NCB
procurement, DLS may use the Government's Standard BiddingDocuments in form acceptable
to the World Bank. For selection o f international consulting firms, the Bank's Standard Request
for Proposals (RFP), including standard contract form will be used; for local consultants
Government's procedure laid out in the national regulations will apply including its
documentation. Depending on the type o f procurement, the Bank's or Government's Standard
BidProposal Evaluation Formwill be followed for submission o f evaluationreports.




                                                 97

                       TableA: ProcurementArrangements(US$ Millions)I'

                          Category                           ICB      NCB      Other2' N.B.F.3/ Total
                                                                                         I            I
    1. CivilWorks                                                  II   0.72 II                            0.72
                                                                      (0.72)                             (0.72)
    2. Goods                                                   5.50     2.75      2.50                    10.75
                                                             (5.50)   (2.75)    (2.50)                  (10.75)
    3. ConsultingServices
                   -                                                              0.32         2.06        2.38
                                                                                (0.32)                   (0.32)
    4. Training,StudiesandWorkshops                                                1.51        0.94        2.45
                                                                                (1.51)                   (1.51)
    5. CompensationProgram                                                        2.30                     2.30
                                                                                (1.15)                   (1.15)
    6. Incremental OperatingCost                                                  2.40                     2.40
                                                                                (1-55)                   (1-55)
                            Total                              5.50     3.47      9.03         3.00       21.00
                                                             (5.50)   (3.47)    (7.03)                  (16.00)

I/    Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'    Includes (i) goods to be procured through shopping; direct contracting (ii)
                                                                                consulting services to be procured
       following quality and cost based selection, selection under fixed-budget, least cost selection, single source
       selection, and individual consultants' methods, and cost o f training, seminar, workshops and other
       dissemination activities; (iii)
                                     Incremental Operating Cost.
3/    N.B.F. Not Bank-financed       - Avian Human Influenza Trust Fund (AHITF). The estimated amount o f
      US$2.999 million is rounded to US$3.00 million. AHITF grant i s expected to be provided intwo tranches.
      The first tranche i s expected to be for US$2.00 million.


PriorReviewThresholds

Goods and Works: Duringthe initial 18 months o f the project, the World Bank will carry out
prior review o f the following contracts: (i)        first contract for goods by each implementingagency
using NCB, and thereafter contracts estimated to cost US$ 300,000 equivalent or more,
irrespective o f the procedures; (ii)      for works- first package/contract usingNCB, andthereafter all
contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more, irrespective o f the procedures. After
18 months, the above thresholds will be revieweddefinedredefinedin the revised procurement
plan, ifnecessarybut subject to the prior review and "no objection".

ConsultantsServices: The World Bank's prior review will be required for consultants' services
contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 equivalent
or more for individuals. All single-source contracts will be subject to prior agreement by the
World Bank. All TORSo f the consultants are subject to the World Bank's prior review.




                                                         98

             Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review a/

Expenditure         Contract Value             Procurement            Contracts Subject to Prior
  Category            (Threshold)                Method                          Review
Works           >=us$2,000,000            ICB                      All contracts.

                                          NCB                      Firstcontractregardlessofvalue
                                                                   inNCBandthereafter, all
                                                                   contractsvaluedUS$500,000 or
                                                                   more
Goods           >=US$300,000              ICB                      All contracts
                <US$300,000               NCB                      First contractby each
                                                                   implementing agency regardless
                                                                   of value inNCB andthereafter,
                                                                   all contracts valuedUS$300,000
                                                                   or more.
Services        >=us$200,000              QCBS                     All contracts.
                <us$200,000               FBS                      All contracts ofUS$lOO,OOO or
                                                                   more
                <us$100,000               FBS/LCS                  Postreview
                >=US$50,000               IC- Qualifications,      All contracts
                                          references. SectionV
                                          ofthe Consultant
                                          Guidelines
                <US$50,000                IC-Qualifications,       Postreview
                                          references.
                Selectivecontracts        sss                      Prior agreement
                <=us$100,000
                andmeetingthe
                requirements of 3.9 to
                3.12 ofthe Consultant
                Guidelines

a/ Prior reviewthreshold would be reviewed after 18 months and adjusted, ifnecessary.

Post Review

For compliance with the Bank's procurement procedures, the World Bank will carry out sample
post review o f contracts that are below the prior review threshold. The Procurement Core Team
will also review and carry out audit of such contracts. Such review (ex-post and procurement
audit) o f contracts below the threshold will constitute a sample o f about 20 percent o f the
contracts ineach agency.

Review of Procurement Performance

The World Bank will monitor the compliance with the requirements o f Bank's different
procurement methods andperformance standards on a continuous basis. As part o f the project's
planned annual review/mid-term review, a comprehensive assessment o f procurement
performance will also be carried out. Based on the review, inconsultation with the government,


                                                 99

the World Bank may revise the prior review threshold, including the procurement and selection
methods.

Reporting. Theproject will prepare quarterly Procurement MonitoringReport (PROCMOR), as
per specific formats agreedwith GOB.

Frequency of procurementsupervision missions proposed.Once every six months. Besides,
as part o f the fiduciary control, Bank's staff and independent consultant, as deemed appropriate,
will carry out post review/procurement audit o fcontracts.

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangement:

Goods andWorks.

List of contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

 Ref.    Contract             Estimated     Number of Procurement Domestic   Review    Expected
 No.     Description          cost          Contracts Method
                              (us$ooo)                            Preference by Bank   Bid-Opening
                                                                  (yesho)    (Prior I  Date
                                                                             Post)
   1               2                3          4           5          6          7
                             I            I                                                    8
 G1.1    Laboratory          IAbout 0.4    1 3       IICB         No         Prior     Startingfrom
 to      Machineries          million US$                                              August 2007.
 G1.3                         eachpackage                                              Eachyear one

                                                                                      Ipackage. Total
                                                                                       3 packages
 G2.1    Materials and        About 0.3     5         ICB         No        IPrior    IStartingfrom
 to      Consumables          million US$                                              August 2007.
 G2.5    (chemicals,          each package                                             Eachyear one
         sampling                                                                      package. Total
         equipments, etc)                                                              5 packages
 G3.1  IIPersonalProtection  IAbout 0.15  I 3        IICB         No         Prior     Starting from
 to      Equipment(PPE)       million US$                                              August 2007.
 G3.3    for field personnel  eachpackage                                              Eachyear one
                                                                                       package. Total
                                                                                       3 packages
 G4*     PersonalProtection   1050          4         DC          No         Prior     Contingency,
         Equipment (PPE)                                                               Ifrequired
                                                                                       then it will be
                                                                                       initiated.
 G5*     Vaccines  -          190           5         DC          No         Prior     Contingency,
         Contingency                                                                   Ifrequired
                                                                                       then it will be
                                                                                       initiated.
 G6.1    DiagnosticReagents   215           5         DC          No         Prior     Starting from
 to                                                                                    July 2007.
 G6.5*                                                                                 Each year one
                                                                                       package. Total
                                                                                       5 packages
 G7**  I Pre-fabricated      I700         I 1        IDC          No         Prior     April 2009
         BSL3
 G8.1    Computer 20Nos.      30             1        NCB
 G8.2    Computer 40 Nos.     60             1        NCB                              June 2008
 G8.3    Computer 40 Nos.     60             1        NCB                    Post      June 2009




                                                    100

G9.1    Motor cycle 200       280         1          NCB    No    Post   July2007
        Nos.
G9.2    Motor cycle 100       140         1          NCB    No    Post   June 2008
        Nos.
G9.3    Motor cycle 200       280         1          NCB    No    Post   June 2009
        Nos.
G 10    GIS lab (Digitizing   35           1         NCB    No    Post   April 2008
        board andGPS
        instrument)
G 11    Vehicles(1            100          1         NCB    No    Post   July 2007
        Microbus, 1Jeep
        and 1Pickup) for
        PCU
G 12    Computerand           25           1         NCB    No           July2007
        relatedaccessories
        (Desktop, laptop,
        printer,projector,
        scanner etc) for
        PCU
G 13    Furniture& Fixture    25           1         NCB    No           July2007
        (including Air
        Conditioner)for
        PCU
G 14    Video Camerafor       1            1          NS    No    Post   August 2007
        PCU
G 15    TV & DVD for          1            1          NS    No    Post   August 2007
        PCU
G 16.1  Productionofprint     About 0.07   5         NCB    No    Post    Startingfrom
to 16.5 materials for -Public millionUS$                                 July 2007.
        awarenessand          eachpackage                                Eachyear one
        information                                                      package. Total
                                                                          5 packages
G 17    Productionof Video    About 0.06   5         NCB    No    Post    Startingfrom
        materials for -Public million US$                                July2007.
        awarenessand          eachpackage                                Eachyear one
        information                                                      package. Total
                                                                          5 packages
G 18    Productionof Audio    AboutO.O1    5         NCB    No    Post    Startingfrom
        materials for -Public million US$                                July2007.
        awarenessand          eachpackage                                Eachyear one
        information                                                      package. Total

G 19    Televisionandradio
        Advertisement for -   750         Multiple    DC    No    Post
                                          packages                       July 2607
        Public awareness                  through out
        andinformation


w 1     Civil works -         480          1         NCB    No    Post   July2007
        Laboratoryrepairs
        andrenovationof
        FDILs CDIL and
        BLRI-1styear
W2      Civil works -         240          1         NCB    No    Post   June 2008
        Laboratoryrepairs
        andrenovationof
        FDILs CDIL and
        BLRI-2ndyear




                                                   101

2. ConsultingServices

    Ref.    Description of Assignment        Estimated      Selection      Review       Expected
     No.                                        cost         Method       by Bank       Proposals
                                            (US%000.)          -a/         (Prior /     Submission
                                                                             Post)        Date
      1                   2                       3             4             5             6
     S1*   International &national              1,500         sss            Yes       June 2007
           Technical Assistance
     S2    Disseminationandwebsite               100          FBS            Yes       October
           developmentfor -Public                                                      2007
           awareness andinformation
     S3    Monitoring & Evaluation -              75          FBS            No        September
           Base line Survey,                                                           2007
     S4    Monitoring & Evaluation -              75          FBS            No        May 2009
           Mid-termevaluation
     S5    Monitoring & Evaluation -             100          FBS            Yes       November
           EndofTermEvaluation                                                         2010
     S6    IndependentProcurement                100           IC            Yes       September
           Expert (36 staff-months)                                                    2007
     S7    IndependentTechnicalExpert            100           IC            Yes       November
           (36 staff-months)                                                           2007
     S8    Local ProcurementConsultant            80           IC            Yes       October
           (36 staff-months)                                                           2007

       *  FA0 willbe contractedthroughsole source basis usingBank Consultant Guideline.


Avian InfluenzaComponentof existingHNPSP:ProcurementArrangements

ProcurementComponents & Responsibility:The value o f the Avian Influenza Component o f
the existing Health Nutrition and Population Support Project (HNPSP, P074841) is US$ 16
million. Avian Influenza component which will be implemented as part o f the existing HNPSP,
being implemented by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) through the
Director General o f Health Services (DGHS); the Line Director for Communicable Diseases in
DGHSwill manage this component and, depending on the type of activity, will liaison with Line
Directors Hospital, In-service Training and Communications.           Central Medical Stores Depot
(CMSD) will act as procurement entity for goods procurement and Public Works Department
(PWD) will be responsible for procurement o fworks.
Procurement Capacity and Risk Assessment: Procurement capacity assessment o f CMSD
was based on information for the current HNPSP with necessary updating. Though CMSD has
experience o f the World Bank financed project, this entity i s not immune from the systemic
deficiencies and considerable weaknesses in terms o f internal control, award delays,
transparency, management o f procurement process, and handling complaints exist. Inorder to
safeguard against this and considering the prevailing conditions for public procurement in the
country, the project (HNPSP) i s rated "high risk" from procurement operation and contract
administration viewpoint



                                                  102

Measuresfor ImprovingGovernanceinProcurement.

The risk mitigation safeguards have been prepared in consultation with Central Medical Stores
Depot (CMSD), the Implementation Agency for procurement o f HNPSP portion o f Avian
Influenza component. Since these safeguards are not included inthe program documents andthe
same should apply across the board to HNPSP, the matter will be pursued with the MOHFW. It
will also be includedinthe Implementationmanualo fHNPSPwhich has reference inthe DCA.

Several measures have been introduced and agreed with the Government for improving
governance in procurement and for minimizing procurement risks under the Project.              All
elements o f risk mitigation, described in the following paragraphs, are applicable to the Avian
Influenza Component o f HNPSP. The three main pillars o f improving procurement related
governance risk mitigation framework are: (a) establishment o f Procurement Core Team (PCT);
(b) systemo fhandling complaints; and (c) disclosure o f information andprocurementwebsite.

ProcurementCore Team (PCT): A PCT will be formed to oversee the procurement process
under the project. The PCT will consist of at least five members, o f which at least two external
independent experts (technical and procurement) will be from outside the govemment/public
sector entities and will be selected using Bank guidelines. These experts are likely to be o f
known reputation from professionalbodies, universities, academics, NGOs or the private sector.
The PCT will: (i) the bidding documents for large contracts that are subject to prior
                    review
review; (ii)receive bids, evaluate bids, and prepare bid evaluation reports, along with
recommendations for the award of contract; (iii)cany out the ex-post review o f bidding
procedures, followed insmaller contracts that are not subject to prior review; and (iv) make field
visits to a number o f sites and check the quality o f procurement of goods and works and
performance o fthe suppliers/contractors.

System for Handling Complaints: A credible system o f handling complaints will be put in
place introducing a complaint box andhandlecomplaints within the stipulated timeline, maintain
a complaint database and a standard protocol with triggers for carrying out investigations. For
ICB/international selection o f consultants and all contracts above US$lOO,OOO,         the Bank
prescribed complaint redress mechanism will apply.

Disclosureof InformationandProcurementWebsite: All informationrelating to biddingand
procurement above the specified thresholds, as per PPR, will be publishedinCPTU's website.

In addition, the following additional steps will be followed as a part of procurement and
implementation:

     (i)Bidopeningminutes: Openbidsbyaformalbidopeningcommitteeincludedinat
          least one bid evaluation committee member and prepare bid openingminutes, with
          readout bidprices of participatingbidders, signed by bidopening officials and
          representatives ofbidders; and share the minuteswith biddersimmediately after
          opening.




                                                103

 (ii)Timelinessof bidevaluationandcontractaward:Submitbidevaluationreportdirectly
      to the contract approving authority within the stipulatedtimeline, along with the
       certificate o f impartiality.

 (iii)Actionfor corruptpractices-by bidderhtaffi Takeactionagainstbiddersand/orstaff
       for corrupt and fraudulent practices. Incases o fpossible collusion found or established
       for reasons, i.e. same hand-writing, consecutive serial numbers inbank guarantees for
      bid security etc, procuring entities will initiate actions, including debarring
       contractorshppliers, as appropriate in accordance with national rules. If any firm i s
       debarred, the list o f debarred firms will appear in the web sites of CPTU, and o f the
       entity, ifapplicable.

 (iv) Low competition among bidders and high price of bids:                  The case(s) o f low
       competition (not solely based on number o f bidders) coupled with highpriced bids will
       be reviewed by the PCT. The review and decision in this regard would be in the
       context o f qualification criteria, the contract size, capacity o f the local suppliers (for
       smaller and non-attractive contracts), etc. Inlogical cases, CMSD may go for changing
       the scope ofprocurement.

 (v) Re-bidding:        Allow re-bidding only in exceptional circumstance with valid
      justifications, taking into account that the development partner may not finance such
       contract, if found not justified, in particular the agency will enquire into the matter,
       record and highlight the grounds o f re-bidding (Le. corruption or similar, high bid
       prices etc.). For corrupt practices, actions need to be recommended.

 (vi) Filing and record-keeping: Procuring entity will preserve records and all documents
       regarding their public procurement, in accordance with provisions o f the PPR. These
       records will be made readily available on request for audit, investigation or review by
       the Bank.

(vii) Publication of award of contract in websites: Procuring entity, within two weeks of
       contract award, will publish in its (if applicable) and CPTU's websites the following
       information: identity o f contract package, date o f advertisement, number o f bids sold,
       number o f submitted bids, number o f responsive bids, brief reasons for rejection o f
       bids, name o f the winning bidder and the price it offered, date o f notification of award,
       date o f contract signing, proposed completion date o f contract as well as brief
       description o f the contract awarded. For contracts following International Competitive
       Bidding (ICB) procedures, procuring entity will publish notice of award o f such
       contracts in UNDB Online and Development Gateway Market (dgMarket), in
       accordance with the provisions o fthe Bank's Guidelines.

(viii) Postprocurement audit (review): Carry out annual post review o fprocurement
       packages on a sample basis, as per the provisions o f the P P NPPR.

 (ix) Oversight by PCT: The PCT will provide this function.




                                               104

     (x) NCB conditions to be added: (i)       Post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with
          the lowest evaluated or any other bidder. (ii) should be submitted and opened in
                                                            Bids
          public inone location immediately after the deadline for submission.

ProcurementArrangements:

Overall procurement arrangements with tentative amounts are given inTable A.

Procurement of Works. Civil works are primarily related to up-gradation o f health care
facilities and some O&M works. The thresholds for ICB and N C B have been outlined inTable
B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods andPrior Review-HNPSP.

Procurement of Goods. Generally goods will be procured using ICB followed by NCB and
national shopping for small valued contracts. The threshold for ICB, N C B and NS has been
mentioned inthe "Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review -HN"SP".

Direct Contracting    - DC: Prefabricated BSL-3 LAB (Bio-safety level 3 laboratory) will be
procured through direct contracting method from Techcomp Holding Company, Hong Kong.
Estimatedcost for this LAB i s around US$700,000.

Rationales for Direct Contracting of Prefabricated BSL-3: The key reasons for direct
contracting o fthe pre-fabricated BSL-3 are as follows:

            The available current information and internet searches show only one supplier
            providing fully equipped state o f the art pre fabricated BSL-3 units;

            Enquiries in the region reveal that the Indian National Institute o f Communicable
            Diseases (NICD) in New Delhi has procured the prefabricated BSL-3 units from
            Techcomp HoldingCompany, HongKongthrough direct contracting;

            The emergency nature o f the program warrants that Bangladesh builds up its BSL-3
            capacity quickly. A pre-fabricated BSL-3 laboratory has a lead time o f about 6
            months and i s far shorter than setting up a new BSL-3 facility involving extensive
            construction;

            A major advantage would be interms o f its regular maintenance bythe only available
            supplier. This would make the operation and maintenance of the prefab laboratory
            much easier;

            Consultation with NICD New Delhireveal that the cost o f installing and operating a
            pre-fabricated laboratory i s much lower than building a new facility which will not
            be cost effective in Bangladesh both from the point o f initial cost and recurrent
            operational costs.




                                                 105

Consultants' Services andTraining
Major consultancy assignments relate to training and technical assistance,besides substantial amount
o f contracts to UNagencies. The thresholds for differentselection methods are outlined inTable B:
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review -HNPSP.

          Selection of UN agencies WHO will be responsible for providing TA services under
          avian influenza component o fthe HNPSP.

Rationale for single sourcing WHO for TAs under Avian Influenza Component of the
HNPSPandfor allowingWHO to use itsown procedures: The avian influenza component o f
the existing HNPSP calls for technical services in a number o f areas from the World Health
Organization. These include (i)      performing a review o f the legal and regulatory framework for
disease interventions (in concert with a domestic counterpart), (ii)    developing an instrument to
assess regional capacity for avian influenza, training staff on application o f the instrument,
developing the scheme for carrying out the periodic assessments, and assisting inthe their actual
implementation, (iii)    developing high quality guidelines and protocols for disease monitoring,
investigation, and management, (iv) developing tabletop and field simulation exercises and
assisting the government in actually holding these exercises, and (5) developing plans for the
pandemic phase o f influenza in Bangladesh. The justifications for the selection o f WHO are as
follows:

      (a)      The concerned government institutions in Bangladesh are weak in technical
               expertise. Technical input, especially in the area o f Communicable diseases, i s a
               usual role for the World Health Organization (WHO). WHO has been engaged in
               these activities in a number o f countries across the region. WHO i s well equipped
               to provide this technical support in shortest possible time, respected by the
               Government of Bangladesh, and has the capacity to carry out the anticipated
               activities. All o f the activities to be performed by WHO are important and critical
               to successful prevention and control of human illness related to avian influenza;
               several are critical components of the Bank-funded avian influenza component o f
               HNPSP. As one example, training activities cannot commence until high quality
               guidelines andprotocols have been developed on which to base the training;

     (b)       Alternatives to WHO for technical support may probably exist. However the
               identification and contracting o f such agencies will be a long drawn out processes
               and not tested and hence not suitable for an emergency program such as this. In
               addition WHO'S local presence, expertise and good working relationship with
               GOB, give them competitive sustainable advantage over the other alternatives.


ProcurementandSelectionPlanning

DGHS has prepared a draft Procurement Plan for goods and works and Selection Plan for
consultants' services. Since some o f the Avian Influenza component o f HNPSP details are not
yet finalized, at this stage, the Plan will cover the initial 18 months o f the Avian Influenza




                                                    106

component o f HNPSP and will be updated annually covering always the next 18 months o f
project implementation.


               Table-A ProcurementArrangementof HNPSPAI Component
                                         (US$ millions)

             Category                          Sub-ComDonents

                                       Planning Health Response               Total
             Goods                                   2.166          6.176      8.432
             Services                     0.361       0.07          0.035      0.465
             Works                                   0.120          1.300      1.420
             Recurrent                     0.045     1.369          0.810     2.224
             Training                                0.550          2.280     2.830
             Operations                              0.718                     0.718
             Total                         0.405     4.994        10.601 I   16.000


Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

To enhance capacity and quality o f output quarterly supervision workshops, led by MOHFW
with the participation o f the World Bank and other DPs, will be conducted. These will aim at
reviewingthe over-all progress achieved and problems identified duringthe previous quarter. To
determine whether the procedures, processes and documentation for procurement and contracting
were in accordance with the DCA and that the procurement carried out achieved the expected
economy and efficiency gains, an annual procurement audit o f HNPSP will be performed. In
addition, routine post review o f procurement actions will be undertaken by the World Bank for
at least 20% o f the contract packages under post-review category; however, MOHFW shall
disseminate all complaints received against all contract packages irrespective o f post- and prior-
reviewthresholds, including the disposal o f the complaint. Post-review contracts




                                               107

       Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods andPrior Review -HNPSP

Expenditure     ContractValue      I    Procurement        ContractsSubjectto Prior
 Category         (Threshold)              Method                     Review
Works        >=us$5,000,000          ICB                 All contracts

             <us$5,000,000          NCB
Goods        >=US$300,000            ICB                  All contracts or as indicated in

                                   I                      the procurement plan
             <US$300,000           I NCB                  Firstcontract byeach
                                                          implementing agency
                                                          regardlessofvalue.
             <us$loo.ooo            N S
                                     Direct   Contracting All contracts

Services     =>100,000               QCBS                 All contracts.

             <US$25,000 and          CQ                   Post review
             meetingwith
             requirementsof 3.1,
             3.7 and 3.8
             =>US$50,000 per         Individual           All contracts
             contract                Consultant
             Selective contracts     FBS                  Prior agreement




             Selective contracts     LCS                  Prior agreement
             andmeetingthe
             requirementsof 3.6
             and inaccordance
             with 3.1 & 3.6 of
             Consultant Guidelines

             Selective contracts     sss                  Prior agreement
             andmeetingthe                               Ifnot, allcontracts
             requirementsof3.9 to
             3.13 of the Consultant
             guidelines




                                           108

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangement:

(1) Goods andWorks.

List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB anddirect contracting:

Ref. No.  Contract          Estimated  Number     Procure-    Domestic     Review       Expected
          Description        cost      of         ment        Preference byBank         Bid-
                             (US$ 000) Contracts Method       (yesho)      (Prior/Post) Opening
                                                                                       Date
   1               2             3         4           5          6             7           8
AVG-1     Personal           200       1          ICB         N o          Prior        December
          Protective                                                                    2007
          Equipment
          (PPE) sets
AVG-2     Antiviral doses    1900                 ICB         N o          Prior        December,
          Oseltamivir                                                                   2007
          capsules and
          suspensions)
AVG-3     Other              625                  ICB         N o
          Medication
          (Antibiotics,
          Antipyretics,
          Cough
          suppressant and
          Hydro-cortisone)                                               +
AVG-4     Seasonal           340       1          ICB         N o          Prior       December
          Influenza
          Vaccine doses
AVG-5     Hygienic and       105                  N C B       N o
          disinfection
          Supplies -.
          Hypochlorite
AVG-6     Hygienic and       210                  N C B       N o
          disinfection
           Supplies -
          Absolute
          Alcohol
AVG-7     Hygienic and       80                   NCB         N o                      December
          disinfection
           Supplies -
          Detergent                                                      i"-
AVG-8     Equipments for     45                   NCB         N o        =-tG-         December
          Eighteen (18)
           Sentinel
          -surveillancesites
            IT
AVG-9     National           160                  NCB         N o                      March2008
           Surveillance
           System- IT
          related support
          equipments.
AVG-10    VEHICLE 8 nos      320                  ICB         N o




                                                109

iVG-11 3quipment for      11       I      NS      No     Post    September
       Zentral                                                   2007
       ;urveillance site
       itIEDCR
4VG-12 Swabs for          77              NS      No     Post    August
       specimen                                                  2007
                ..
       :ollection for
       RRT(Rapid
       response Team
       support)
4VG-13 Vaccum tubes for      37           NS      No     Post    September
       RRT                                                       2007
4VG-14 supplies for RRT              1    NS      No     Post    September
                             ~
                             5
                                                                 2007
4VG-15 Diagnostic kits       65           NS      No     Post    September
       (For Influenza                                            2007
       A/B) (1 kit =20
       sets)
4VG-16  Improving             250         ICB     No     Prior   December
       diagnostic                                                2007
       Laboratory
       capacity -
       Equipmentfor
       IEDCR
AVG-17 Improving              60          NCB     N o    Post    December
       diagnostic                                                2007
       Laboratory
       capacity -  .
       Materials and
       consumable for
       IEDCR
AVG-18 HealthCare             650         ICB     N o    Prior   January
       facilities upgrade                                        2008
       Equipments
AVG-19 Prefabricated          800    1     D C    N o    Prior   October
       BSL -3 lab at                                             2007
       IEDCR

AVW-1  Health Care            975    1     ICB    N o    Prior   March
       facilities upgrade                                        2008
       - Renovation
       Works
AVW-2  Extension o freal      260    1     NCB    N o    Post    January
       Time PCR                                                  2008
       laboratory at
       IEDCR
AVW-3  Civil Works            14     1     NCB    N o    Post    October
       Maintenance at                                            2007
       IEDCR




                                         110

(2) ConsultingServices

Ref. No. Descriptionof  Estimated Number of Selection Review       Expected
         Assignment      cost     Contracts Method g/
                         (us$ooo.)                    by Bank      Proposals
                                                      (PriorPost)  Submission
                                                                   Date
   1             2           3        4         5           6            7
AVS-1*   International&     300       1        sss        Yes     IDecember
         national
         Technical                                               I
         Assistance                                                2007


*  ThroughWHO.




                                      111

                                          Bangladesh
                Avian Influenza Preparedness and ResponseProject

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements


ExecutiveSummary:

        The Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) has prepared a National Avian Influenza and
Human Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Plan and Response Plan (NAIP) that provides the
overall framework and prescribes interventions by concerned ministries to prevent, contain, and
respond to AI outbreaks.

        The proposed Avian Influenza Program will be implemented through a new project (a)
Avian InfluenzaPreparedness and ResponseProject (AIPRP), anda separate (b) Avian Influenza
(AI) component o f the on-going Health Nutrition and Population Sector Program (HNPSP).
Three components o f the AIPRP (i)   Animal Health, (ii) Awareness and Information, and
                                                          Public
(iii)Implementation Support and Monitoring & Evaluation will be implemented by the Ministry
o f Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL) through the Department o f Livestock Services (DLS). The
AI component, under the HNPSP, will be implemented by the Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare (MOHFW) through the LineDirectorate-CommunicableDisease (LD-CD).

        Under the AIPRP, the compensation program will compensate the affected poultry
farmers for the culled birds. DLS has preparedpreliminary operational guidelines and eligibility
criteria for accessing and managing the compensation program. To ensure appropriate controls
and disbursements from the compensation program, project activities include extensive training,
workshops and awareness programs, and extensive oversight. Disbursement o f IDA funds for
the compensation program will be contingent upon GOB'Sapproval o f Compensation guidelines
andprocedures for the compensation program.

        A key strength is the high level o f Government commitment for project implementation
which i s evident from the formation o f a core project implementation team and various
committees to monitor and supervise AI activities. A key weakness is the lack o f qualified staff
to handle the financial management activities within DLS, the primary executing agency.
Another weakness is inadequate exposure o f DLS staff for managing large contracts as well as
financial management activities under the development budget. To address these weaknesses,
the project will support extensive capacity building efforts for the core project staff as well as
relevant DLS staff.

        Before mitigation, the overall FM risk i s rated as "Substantial" due to: (i)weak
implementation capacity o f DLS, (ii) staff inexperience in implementing donor-funded projects,
(iii) ofapprovedoperationalguidelinesforthecompensationprogram,and(iv) inadequate
     lack
internal control systems. Because DLS and MOFL have agreed to the mitigation measures
outlined below, the residual FMrisk i s rated as "Modest."




                                                112

       The consolidated project financial statements will be prepared by DLS and audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG).           In addition to an annual external audit, as an
additional internal control measure, an annual operational review will be carried out by an
independent private firm subject to TORSand selection processes acceptable to the World Bank.
This will include a review o f internal controls, project operational framework, and procedures,
particularly for the compensation program and the inventory o f drugs, vaccines, medical and
veterinary equipment, andother high-value assetsprocuredunder the project.

       As part o f an enhanced focus to identify and minimize the risk o f leakage or misuse o f
project funds, a risk migration table denoting expenditure eligibility and indicators o f fraud,
corruption, collusion, and coercion is beingprepared and will be agreed during implementation.
This tool will serve as a basis for any investigationthat might result from internal audit external
audit, or operational reviewreports.

        To the extent possible, the project will follow the government budgeting, accounting, and
reporting system. Transaction-based disbursement procedures will be used for withdrawal o f funds
from the credit andAHITF grant. FMarrangementsfor the AI componentof HNPSPwill follow the
FMarrangementsalready inplace for HNPSP.

        The US$21 million AIPRP aims to minimize the threat posed to poultry and humans by
AI infection and other zoonoses by assisting the Government o f Bangladesh to identify, control
andrespond to avian influenzapandemic andrelated emergencies. The project will be financed
by IDA, under an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) for the Bank's Global Program for Avian
Influenza (GPAI), Avian Human Influenza Trust Fund (AHITF), and the GOB. The project
consists o f three components: (i)AnimalHealth, (ii) Awareness and Information, and (iii)
                                                      Public
Implementation Support andMonitoring & Evaluation.

        Over the years, there have been many initiatives to improve overall country financial
management in Bangladesh. However, due to the fragmented approach to Public Financial
Management (PFM) reforms there has been uneven improvement across the PFM system and
government agencies and institutions.       Various diagnostic studies report that piece-meal
technical assistance driven by donors neither helped the Government to reap the full benefit o f
reforms nor sustained the capacity developed. Country institutions are still not sufficiently
developed to manage public resources and undertake project implementation effectively.
Despite the weak overall country financial management environment, fiduciary risk in donor-
fundedprojects has been greatly minimised due to the government policy stipulating additional
implementation arrangements inthose projects.

              The AIPRP will be implemented by DLS, under the MOFL. With increasing
reliance on country systems and the shift toward using the existing PFM structure, systems, and
policies, the AIPRP will be implementedbythe line agency. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will be created in DLS with existing staff reassigned to oversee project implementation.
Additional support will be provided by consultants to strengthenthe PCUbecauseDLS currently
has no experience inmanagingBank-fundedprojects.




                                                113

Governance Framework

        The GOB, with assistance from the World Health Organization (WHO) andthe Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) has prepared a National Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan (NAP). This plan provides specific strategies,
institutional arrangements, and activities to be undertaken by concerned ministries to prevent,
contain, and respond to AI outbreaks. A National Advisory Committee WAC) comprised o f the
ministerso f the participating ministries is the apex coordinating body for implementationo f the
Plan.

        Inaddition, Intra-MinisterialNationalTechnicalCommittees arebeingestablishedwithin
the three main participating ministries (MOFL, MOHFW, and the Ministry o f Environment and
Forest) to facilitate implementationo f the Plan. The MOFL and MOHFW have been designated
to implement the GOB Planwith appropriate support from other agencies, including the Ministry
o f Environment and Forest and the Ministry o f Information (MOI).

         The Animal Health, Public Awareness and Information, and Implementation Support and
Monitoring & Evaluation project components will be implemented by M O F L through DLS. A
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within DLS will be responsible for overall administration,
communication, procurement, financial management, safeguards, reporting and M&E o f the
project. The HumanHealth component will be implemented by MOHFW through LD-CD. The
Director General Health Services (DGHS) will be the operational focal point for interfacingwith
the implementation team o fthe Animal Health component.

         The AIPRJ?will finance aprogram to compensate the affected poultry farmers for culling
infected birds. To effectively manage the compensation program, DLS i s in the process o f
preparing operational guidelines which will outline the process, eligibility criteria, and
operational modality for accessing the compensation program. To ensure efficient and
transparent management o f the compensation program, operational guidelines should include
following minimum elements: (i)legal basis for establishing responsibilities for compensation
program administration, (ii) financial need assessment, (iii)   information on sources o f hnds and
likely amounts from each source and mobilizing needed financing, (iv) identification o f the
payment agencies to get the funds to the beneficiaries, (v) payment instruction (cash, bank
transfer), (vi) basis o f payment (certification), (vii) time frame for payment, (viii) monitoring
disbursement, (ix) operational and financial audits, and (x) social accountability mechanisms.
Bank's clearance o f compensation program will be contingent upon incorporation of the above
provisions.

         To ensure appropriate controls in poultry culling and use o f the compensation program,
project activities include extensive training, workshops, awareness programs, and oversight.
This will include specific actions viz (i)  enhanced disclosure and transparency o f project related
information i.e. after culling a list o f recipient farmers per village, including the amounts to be
compensated will be disclosed in public space, and (ii)mechanism to handle complaints on
                                                             a
misuse of funds, especially for the compensation program.




                                                  114

        Inaddition to an annual external audit, an annual operational review, including internal
audit, will be carried out by anindependent private firm, subject to TORSand selection processes
acceptable to the Bank. The terms of reference for the operational reviews should focus on
confirming the legitimacy o f compensation payments made from a randomly selected sample o f
villages As part o f an enhanced focus to reduce opportunities for misuse or misdirect project
finds, an additional control framework outlining major expenditure eligibility and indicators o f
fraud, corruption, collusion, and coercion will be prepared. Agreement has been reached with
DLS for ensuring that this framework serves as a basis for any investigation that might be
necessary as a result o f reported ineligible expenditures or indications of malpractice in external
audit or annual operational review reports.

Role of UN Agencies. Given the emergency nature o f avian influenza, weak institutional
capacity o f DLS (and MOFL), generally long procurement process, and the need for highly
specialized technical assistance, FA0 will be contracted to provide necessary technical services,
PPE, vaccines, and reagents to expedite implementation o f the AIPRP. DLS has provided
justification to the Bank for sole source selection o f FAO.

Risk Analysis and Mitigation

        Before mitigation, the overall FM risk is rated as "Substantial".     This is mainly due to
weak implementation capacity o f the DLS staff not having experience in donor-funded projects,
unapproved operational guidelines for the compensation program, and inadequate internal and
external oversight.

        MOFL will have necessary guidance from the Ministry of Finance for policy and
operational guidelines to be followed for the compensation program. An annual operational
review will be carried out by an independent firm. Selection o fthe private firm will be subject to
Bank clearance.      The review will cover the internal control framework and procedures,
particularly for the compensation program and the inventory o f drugs, vaccines, medical and
veterinary equipment, and other highvalue assets.

        An additional control framework outlining major expenditure eligibility andindicators o f
fraud, corruption, collusion, and coercionwill be prepared. Agreement has been be reachedwith
DLS for ensuring that the framework serves as a basis for any investigation that might be
necessary as a result o f ineligible expenditures or indicators from internal audit, external audit, or
annual operational review. Subject to satisfactory implementation o f the following mitigation
measures, the residual FMrisk i s rated as "Modest."




                                                 115

                Risk               [nitial          RiskMitigation        FMRisk         Condition
                                  FMRisk                                  After
                                   Rating                                 Mitigation
Inherent Risk
Country Level                            H                                     H
P F M institutions and system lack            A core team inD L S has
capacity for detecting financial              been established. Two
irregularities ina timely manner,             finance staff are being
including taking corrective                   assigned full time.
actions.                                      Extensive training plan i s
                                              being prepared.
EntityLevel
(i) institutionalcapacity
   Weak                                   S                                   M      The Minutes of
might hinder project                                                                 Negotiations
implementation, especially inthe                                                     include provision
short-term inD L S                                                                   for FMstaff
                                                                                     throughout project
                                                                                     implementation.
(ii) FMstaffinDLS
    Existing                              S   Extensive staff training i s    M
have no exposure to Bank-                     being planned.
funded projects and are not
conversant with government
rules
Control Risk
InternalControls:                         S   Operational guidelines for       S     Disbursement o f
Risk for misuse o f compensation              compensation program are               IDA funds for the
program due to absence o f                    being developed which                  compensation
operational guidelines and                    will include key elements              program
eligibility criteria                          stated ingovernance
                                              framework section and
                                              dissemination workshops
                                              are being planned
Internal Control and Internal             S   Anoperational review            M
Audit:                                        covering the internal
Weak internal controls and weak               control framework, finds
internal audit might not prevent              flow, and inventory will be
improper use o f project finds                conducted by an
                                              independent private fm
                                              under the World Bank-
                                              approved TOR.
FinancialReporting:                      M    Government and the World        M      Formats and
With multiple implementing                    Bank will agree on a                   contents were
agencies, project reports might               customized report format               discussed during
be incomplete and delayed                                                            Negotiations and
                                              BLRI, the Ministry o f                 copy was attached
                                              Environment and Forest                 to the Minutes o f
                                              and the Ministry o f                   Negotiations
                                              Information will provide
                                              monthly statements o f
                                              accounts to D L S
Residual FMRisk Rating                    S                                   M




                                                  116

Strengths

        The project has the following strengths: (i)  solid preparation in the form o f NAP, (ii)
high-level Government commitment indicated by the formation o f a core project implementation
team and various committees to monitor and supervise AI activities, and (iii)   up front agreement
on a number o f FM actions for ensuring adequate FM arrangement at project start up. These
strengths will help to ensure smooth implementation o fthe project.

Weaknessesand Action Plan

        One key weakness i s the lack o f qualified staff to handle financial management activities
for the components to be implemented by DLS. Another related weakness i s the lack o f
experience in managing large contracts as well as other financial management activities under
the government's development budget.

        Significant                         Action                   Responsible    Completion
        Weaknesses                                                                      Date
Weak staff capacity in DLS Identify and approve core team for        DLS          June 2007
for project management        PCU/DLS

DLS staff lack experience Training on disbursements,                 MOFL and     Withinone
inmanaginglarge contracts     financial management, and              wF3          montho fproject
                              procurement will be developed and                   effectiveness
                              delivered

It has been agreed that the project will provide sufficient resources for capacity building o f the
project staff which includes training on disbursement, financial management and procurement.
The training will beconducted inclose collaboration with the Bank.

Adequacy of Financial Management Arrangements

        Departmentt o f Livestock Services (DLS), a separate department under the MOFL, will
be implementing a Bank-financed project for the first time under the overall supervision and
control o f the Director General. DLS follows the government's financial management system;
this includes planning, budgeting, accounting, internal controls, internal audit, reporting, and
external audit.   Due to simplification in the Bank's disbursement procedures that includes
agreement on country financing parameters, project accounting ledgers will be maintained as per
the country system. DLS will maintain separate books and accounts to monitor the expenses
against project components and activities. In the DLS Administration unit, the Accounts and
Budget Deputy Director is assisted by one Assistant Director and one Accounts Officer and six
other support staff.

        In addition to implementing three components, DLS faces a major challenge to
coordinate and report on project activities. To fhlfill this need, DLS has agreed to designate two
full-time accountants who will work under the overall guidance and supervision o f the Project
Director. The two FM staff will work with the core implementation team in the PCU. The team


                                                 117

will be assisted by the national and international experts who will provide technical support for
project implementation.     In collaboration with the Bank, DLS will provide disbursement,
financial management, andprocurement training to its core project management staff.

        Provided that the operational guidelines for the compensation program are finalized and
approved, the Operational Manual will include project expenditure eligibility criteria and
remedies. After designated finance staff are on board and trained, FM arrangements for the
components will be adequate for project implementation.

        To facilitate implementation o f the three components under the AIPRP, DLS will prepare
its Annual Work Program and Budget for approval by the Project Steering Committee (PSC).
The project will fully align with the government's treasury and budget management system.
Programming and budgeting o f the project will follow GOB'S budgeting system which
authorizes project expenditure under the approved Annual Development Plan.

Project Financial Accounting and Internal Controls

        The financial accountingpolicies andprocedures inplace are sufficient to ensure that the
DLS comply with minimum financial management requirements and maintain proper accounts
for their respective project components. These include complying with internal controls and
maintaining proper accounting procedures. The accounting systems will include: (i)      application
o f consistent cash accounting principles for documenting, recording, and reporting financial
transactions; (ii)use of existing chart o f accounts that enables timely summarization of financial
transactions for financial reporting purposes; (iii)   use o f an asset register; and (iv) monthly
closing and reconciliation o f accounts and statements. DLS will follow existing financial
authority and payment responsibilities outlined in the Project Accounting Manual of the MOF.
Because there is currently no computerized system inDLS, books o f accounts for the project will
be initially maintained on a manual system. Within two years o f project implementation, DLS
will switch over to a computerizedsystemwith support from the project.

Internal Audit

        DLS follow the government system where Internal Auditors are responsible for carrying
out internal audits o f various cost centers under respective Departments. But because the
government's internal audit systemi s somewhat weak andreports are not timely available, DLS
will undergo an additional annual operational review conducted by an independent private firm
to cover internal controls over expenditures under the new AIPRP. Inclose consultation with the
World Bank, an appropriate TOR for this review, including internal audit functions, will be
prepared by June 30,2007.

Financial Reporting and Monitoringfor all Components

        The PCU inthe DLS will be responsible for preparinginterim financial reports (IFRs) in
a format to be agreed duringnegotiations. The IFRswill show all sources andusage o f funds and
fundutilizationby each o fthe three components o fthe project.




                                                 118

       After disbursements begin, required quarterly interim project reports will show: (i)
sources and uses o f funds by disbursement category; and (ii)usages o f funds by project
components after expenditures, consolidated based on governmental head o f accounts, compared
with budget. The Government and the World Bank have agreed on a customized report format
duringNegotiations, which is attachedto the Minutes o fNegotiations.

External Audit

       The consolidated project financial statements preparedby the DLS will be audited by the
C&AG. The C&AG i s considered to be an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Annual
project audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal
year. The following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Report Compliance System
(ARCS).

ImplementingAgency                   Audit                    Auditors                 Date
DLS                         Project Financial          C & A G                  31 December o f
                            Statements                                          each fiscal year

Fund Flow and Disbursement Arrangements

      For utilization o f IDA'Sshare o f eligible expenditure and AHITF grant, DLS will maintain
two sepearte designated accounts (DA) (one for IDAportion and the other for the AHITF) under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The designated Project Director in DLS will be the
authorizedperson for issuingchecks or payment advice and submittingreplenishment requests to
IDA.

      For the program activities to be executed by the Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute
(BLRI), the Ministryo f Environment andForest andMOI, the PCUwill disburse funds to these
agencies against approved budget, work plan, or contractual agreement. The implementing
agencies will provide monthly statements o f accounts to the PCU on the usage o f project funds.
No hnds will be disbursed unless a proper fund utilization statement is submittedto the PCU.
Withdrawal applications to the Bank will include actual expenditures accounted for in PCU
books, not on the basis of funds disbursed to these agencies.

      Expenditures related to international and national consultants under the Technical
Assistance part o f training expenditures will be financed from the AHITF grant as well as local
payments to support these activities. The project i s likely to have access to about US $ 3m inthe
AHITF. An agreement to this effect, outlining expenditure eligibility to draw funds from
AHITF, will be completed after the grant is approved. The designated account for AHITF, will
be used for eligible expenditures outlined in the agreement. To ensure appropriate control in
using expenditures from IDA as well as AHITF, it has been agreed that IDA allocation will be
utilized only after AHITF grant for a particular category i s exhausted.

       Transaction-based disbursement procedures will be applicable for withdrawal o f funds
from IDA and AHITF. Disbursement under the project will be made as indicated in the table




                                                 119

below which indicates the percentage o f financing for different categories o f expenditureso f the
project. It i s expected that IDA funds will be disbursed over a period o f five years.



    ExpenditureCategory                Total   IDA         GOB        AHITF          Financing
                                                                                     Percentage
    CivilWorks                         0.72    0.72                                  100
    Goods                              10.75    10.75                                100
                                       2.38    0.32                   2.06           100
    Training, Studies and              2.45     1.51                  0.94           100
                                  ~~~~~




    Workshops
    Compensation Program               2.30     1.15        1.15                     50
    Incremental Operating cost         2.40     1.55       0.85                      65
    Total Project Costs                21.00    16.00      2.00*      3.00**


 **
  *  Does not include in-kindcontribution.
     Estimated amount of US$2.999 million i s rounded to US$3.00 million. AHITF grant i s
      expected to be provided in two tranches. The first tranche i s expected to be for US$2.00
      million.

Hundred percentage (100%) for withdrawal for four (4) expenditure categories from the
allocation o f above credit and grant proceeds i s combinedtogether and shown as one category in
the FinancingAgreement, makingtotal disbursement categories three (3) for the project.

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)

        The World Bank will require full documentation for all prior-review cases where
contracts exceed the equivalent of: (a) US$300,000 for goods and US$500,000 works; (b)
US$lOO,OOO for services with firms; and (c) US$50,000 for individuals. Expenditures below the
above threshold and all expenditures under operating costs and training, studies and workshops
will be claimed on SOEs. During the initial supervision by the World Bank, the team will
review the SOE claims to ensure that funds are utilized for the intendedpurposes. Any deviation
noticed during such reviews will benoted for remedyand improvements.

Designated Accounts

        There will be two Dollar Special Accounts (DOSA) under AIPRP, one for the IDA
portion and the other for AHITF. The ceiling o f Designated Accounts will be limited to 3-4
months estimated expenditure o f IDA and AHITF shares o f the project and will be documented
inthe Disbursement Letters.

Minimum Application Size:

        The minimum application size for direct payment to supplier or contractor from the
Credit account or for issuance o f Special Commitment i s US$200,000.



                                                 120

Financial Management Action Plan

       An action plan, that summarizes required activities and timelines to help ensure that
adequate Financial Management practices are in place during project implementation, i s
presented below.

          Action             Responsibility     Completiondate             Conditions
1. Finalize TOR for annual DLS                June 30,2007            The Minuteso f
operational review                                                    Negotiations include
                                                                      aaeed date
2. Finalize interim report DLS                April 30,2007
formats                                       (Done)
3. Identify and designate DLS                 June 30,2007            The Minuteso f
FM staff into core team in                                            Negotiations includes
PCUIDLS                                                               staffDrovision
4. Draft agreement         ERDIWB                                     FAincludes
outlining eligibility to                                              Effectiveness
draw funds from AHITF,                                                Condition.
including payment
modality o fUNcontracts
(AHITF from special
account)
5. Develop additional       DLSIWB            June 30,2007
control framework
outlining major
expenditure eligibility and
indicators o f fraud,
corruption, collusion, and
coercion
6. Finalize Operational     DLS & MOFL        October 31,2007         Disbursement
Guidelinesfor accessing                                               Condition for
Compensation Program.                                                 withdrawal o f funds
                                                                      from compensation
                                                                      category
7. Provide orientation and  DLS               Within one month o f
training on disbursements,                    credit effcetiveness
financial management, and
procurement to DLS
project staff and all new
recruits
8. Maintainproject          DLS               June 30,2008
accounts usingM O F
develoDed software




                                           121

Retroactive Financing

        Retroactive financing, not exceeding 20% o f the credit amount, will be available to
reimburse DLS for procurement o f emergency goods and services; a preliminary list o f itemshas
been agreed with DLS. It has been agreed that the Bankwill reimburse from the proceeds o f the
credit only for payments for eligible expenditures incurred within four months before the
expected date o f credit signing, as long as the government complies with the Bank's procurement
andFMguidelines.

Supervision Plan

        The initial supervision will focus on compliance with all agreed actions, terms, and
conditions. Particular attentionwill bepaid to the compensation program to help ensure that only
eligible farmers are paid and that proof o f infected birds culling i s provided and certified. In
addition, supervision efforts will focus on samplingexpenditures below prior-review thresholds,
reviewing payment processes against the defined control framework, and monitoring the
progress of institutional preparedness and strengthening.

Adequacy of Financial Management Arrangements for Avian Influenza component (AI) of
HNPSP:

        Currently, the Line Director - Communicable diseases (LD-CD) is implementing the
Communicable Disease Operational Plan under the health sector-wide program, HNPSP,
financedjointly by IDA and bi-lateral donors under pooled funding. The humanhealth activities
o f the avian flu program will be treated as one o f the sub-components o f the Communicable
Disease Operational Plan o f the on-going HNPSP and activities covering humanhealth will be
included inthe Communicable Disease Operational Plan for government approval. The LD-CD
currently provides timely Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs) to MOHFW and fully accounts for
all expenditures under HNPSP.

        The HNPSP follows existing country financial management systems for planning,
budgeting, accounting, reporting, internal control, internal audit, and external audit. Audit
Reports o f HNPSP have been received timely. Audit o f HNPSP has been conducted, as per
agreed TOR. Accurate FMRs have been received based on which IDA made first disbursement
o fpool donors share o f eligible expenditure. TOR for periodic internal audit byprivate audit firm
has been cleared. Existing FM weaknesses as well as capacity building activities are being
addressed through DFID assisted TA. LD-CD has experience in implementing HNPSP using
government systems, its own structure, and staff so the human health activities will be
implemented usingthe same implementation arrangements.

        LD-CD h c t i o n s under the overall supervision and management o f the Director General
Health Services.     The Finance Unit i s comprised of: one Finance Manager, four Accounts
Officers, andtwo computer operators. Support from the finance team will be available to the LD-
C D also for implementation o f the Avian Flu activities for human health under HNPSP and
maintaining liaison with DLS. At project start up, core staff responsible for implementing the AI
Component for human health will undergo training to help orient the LD-CD and the relevant


                                                 122

finance staff with a clear understanding about the new AIPRP project and its reporting
obligations.

        Overall, the systems and procedures in LD-CD satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements; the FM arrangements for the AI Component o f HNPSP for human
health are adequate for project implementation.

Budgeting,Fundflow, AccountingandReporting:

        The LD-CD will include annual budget for implementing the AI Component into the
Communicable Disease Operational Plan under the HNPSP. Expenditures related to the AI
Component o f US$16m will be financed under the ongoing HNPSP that follows existing
treasury and government financial rules for fund management. Under HNPSP, the World Bank
manages pool funds, o f which 40% i s IDA share. The AI Component will include both IDA and
other pool donors finance which i s disbursed through a Forex Account maintained with
Bangladesh Bank. As LD-CD, which already maintains a computerized system, the accounts
will be merged with other components o f HNPSP. To help DLS in preparing consolidated
project reports, LD-CD will provide quarterly SOE and quarterlyprogress reports to the PCU in
DLS.

Role of WHO: Given the emergency nature o f avian influenza and the need for highly
specialized technical assistance, WHO (UNagency) will be contracted (on sole source basis) to
provide necessary technical services, PPE, vaccines, and reagents to expedite implementation o f
the AI Component o f HNPSP.

Internal Audit:

        LD-CD activities relatedto AIwill be covered underthe internal audit ofHNPSP. Bank
has cleared the TOR for the audit which will be conducted by an independent private firm.

External Audit:

The AI Component o fthe HNPSPwill be covered underthe existing audit o f HNPSPwhich i s
conducted by the C&AG. Necessary documents related to legal amendments o fthe new AI
Component o f HNPSP will be given to the auditor.




                                              123

                                            Bangladesh
                 Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project

                        Annex 8: Environmentaland Social Safeguards


1.       The Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) strain o f virus (H5N1) was first
identified in South East Asia in 2003 and since then it has spread widely inAsia and to parts of
the World, including Europe and Africa. Bangladesh is a high risk country as far as Highly
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), especially the H5N1 strain, i s concerned. Some 50 % o fthe
national poultry flock (a total o f about 185 million) i s backyard poultry, with minimal bio-
security. It has a large duck population (37 million). Bangladesh i s visited annually by 224
species o f migratory birds in the winter months; 21 o f the migratory birds species are known to
carry the H5N1 virus. Traditionally, it has imported a large number o f day old chicks (DOCS)
and it has porous borders with neighboring countries (India and Myanmar) that have had
outbreaks. Bangladesh experienced H5N1 outbreaks from Februaryto M a y 2007. The problem
i s not yet over.

2.       However, in response to concerns about HPAI, the Government o f Bangladesh (GOB),
with assistance from the WHO and the FAO, has prepared a National Avian Influenza and
Human Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Plan (NAP). This Plan, which
conforms to the general standards for such plans set by FAO, WHO, and OIE, provides for
specific strategies, institutional arrangements, and activities to be undertaken by concerned
ministries to prepare for, prevent, contain and respond to HPAIoutbreaks inpoultry andhumans.
It also identifies the additional facilities and staff training needed to implement the Plan. The
NAP was approved by the Prime Ministers Office in mid-April 2006. GOB has sought IDA
assistance in implementing the NAP through an Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response
Project. The overall project development objective i s to minimize the threat posed to poultry and
humans by H P A I infection and other zoonoses by assisting the Government o f Bangladesh
prepare for, control, and respond to avian influenza pandemics and related emergencies. To
achieve this, three areas are considered for support: (i)prevention, (ii)preparedness and
planning, and (iii) response and containment.

3.       Considering the type o f interventions proposed under the Project and the nature and
magnitude o f potential environmental impacts, this Project has been assigned environmental
safeguard classification o f a Category B Project. Activities under the proposed Project are
expected to cause limited adverse environmental effects, since most activities o f the Project are
considered to support preventive measures. The Project, due to its prevention focused nature,
will generally have positive environmental and social impacts as the project's investments in
facilities, equipment, laboratories, and training will improve the effectiveness and safety o f
existing avian influenza handling and testing procedures. This would be reinforced by
mainstreaming environmental safeguards into the protocols and procedures for the culling and
disposal o f animals during AI outbreaks, decontamination o f production facilities, and
laboratories. Most o f the key potential impacts will be avoided or minimized by integrating




                                                 124

environmental and public health safety aspects in the preparatioddesign and implementation o f
the project activities.

4.      Though no social safeguard policy is triggered by the Project, the Project i s designed to
mitigate the negative impacts o f mandated culling o f poultry on small-scale backyard poultry
producers. A compensation program under the Project will pay producers roughly 75% (or any
other payment planagreed by GOB under the Compensation Policy) o f the market value o f their
culled poultry. The Project will have significant positive social impact by protection of human
lives through HPAI early warning, prevention andcontainment, improved poultry farming
practices, increased public awareness o f HPAI and improved hygiene and food preparation
practices andwaste management.

5.      The mainrisks o f adverse environmental impacts canbe grouped into three categories:

        (i)     Inadvertent human exposure and spread o f the virus due to improper culling and
                disposal o f dead birds (wild birds, sick and dead birds from backyard and
                commercial poultry farms); lack of, or improper use of, personal protection
                equipment (PPE); improper disposal o f farm waste (Le., bedding, manure,
                washings, etc. during andor after an outbreak); and inadequate lab bio-safety
                protocols.
        (ii) Inadvertent release of chemicals in the environment from unsatisfactory
                decontamination procedures (for personnel, poultry sheds, and transport vehicles,
                etc.).
        (iii)   Release o f chemicals and infectious agents into the environment from inadequate
                laboratory and medical facility waste management.

6.      The potential adverse environmental impacts identified above will be mitigated by
integrating environmental and public safety aspects inall stages o f the project. The Government
has prepared guidelines for safe culling, transport and safe disposal o f carcasses.           An
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Framework (ESSMF) and an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) that outlines the measures proposed to address all potential adverse
environmental and social impacts has been prepared and will serve as a guide to ensure that the
Project will not result inany potential indirect andor long term impacts. The preparation o f the
guidelines has involved an evaluation o f suitable alternatives for safe culling, transport and
particularly for safe disposal o f carcasses. The Project will finance the implementation o f the
selected alternatives, according to the EMP.

7.      The ESSMF outlines the procedures and steps to be taken to assess and mitigate the
environmental and social impacts arising from the project. Inadvertent humanexposure and the
spread o f the virus will be minimized by strictly adhering to the guidelines prepared for safe
culling, transport and disposal o f dead birds. The guidelines include the proper use o f personal
protective equipment, proper disposal o f farm waste and proper bio-safety protocols. Guidelines
in the EMP contain procedures to ensure that proper decontamination procedures are followed.
Guidelines need to be prepared to deal with waste arising from laboratory and health facilities
associated with AI so that waste disposal is in keeping with internally accepted standards and
norms.    If the borrower does not have adequate technical expertise to prepare the above
mentioned guidelines, the Project will provide technical assistance to the borrower to achieve the


                                                125

above. The borrower however, has adequate capacity to adhere to and implement the guidelines
prepared under the project andbe able to implement the ESSMF andEMP infull.

8.      There are no social safeguards triggered by the project because there will be no land
acquisition, voluntary or involuntary, therefore there would be no displacement o fpeople. Ifany
land is required, either temporarily or permanently, for burial pits for mass disposal o f dead
birds, or for construction o f incinerators or for open burning o f carcasses, or for the construction
o f laboratories andor other medical or veterinary facilities, such land will be provided by the
Government. Such lands will be free o f squatters or other encumbrances. GOB i s developing
operational guidelines for compensation policy to compensate affected farmers for culled
infected birds.

9.      The EMP has specific guidelines for handlingand disposal o f infected carcasses, excreta
and waste (eggs, manure and feathers) with guidelines for disposal facilities. The EMP outlines
procedures for disinfection, hazardous material (HazMat) workspace arrangements, worker
health and safety and decontamination for animal containment, depopulation and wastes
generated from HPAI outbreaks. However, it i s important to note that the EMP shall be further
revised and updated with the evolving situation and conditions in the country with regard to AI
even duringthe implementationperiod o f the project to reflect new procedures for treatment and
disposal o fwastes inthe event o f future outbreaks. Inthe event that the EMPneeds revising, the
project will follow the initial EMP and the operating procedures to manage and monitor potential
negative impacts o f the disposal o f carcasses, excreta, litter, contaminated soils, disposal
equipment in accordance with the advice o f a Technical Specialist in the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU). These provisions will be included inthe Operational Manual (OM) as Guidance
Notes. Any changes inthe EMPwill be done with IDA concurrence.

10.     The project will finance activities to prevent spreading o f H5N1, surveillance indomestic
poultry as well as inwild birds which will be strengthened in the country as Bangladesh has 21
species o fmigratory birdsvisiting annually that are known to carry H5N1 as well as a large duck
population (37 million). Resources will be focused on the reduction o f close contacts between
humans, domestic poultry andwildlife through better management practices and improved bio-
security practices inpoultry production enterprises, especially those that are small and 'open-air',
where domestic poultry and waterfowl are allowed to minglewith wild birds.

11.     The control o f avian influenzainfection in wild bird populations, at this stage, is not
feasible from a logistical, environmental andbiodiversity point o f view. Indiscriminate culling o f
wild migratory birdpopulations would be ineffective in preventing further spread o f avian
influenza andtheir huntingwould likely cause dispersion o fthe birds.

12.     The investments in laboratory facilities,          equipment     and staff training will
improve effectiveness and safety o f avian influenza handling and testing procedures by
meeting international standards established by OIE. GOB'S handlingo f medical waste generated
inhealthcare facilities are weak at best. Proper procedures haveto beinplace so that it couldbe
used for management o f health care waste arising from an H5N1 outbreak. In order to address
this, a Health Care Waste Management Plan already exists under the HNPSP and this will form
the basis o f environmental management for avian influenza activities as well (no separate EMP
will therefore beprepared for the avian influenzacomponent ofHNPSP).


                                                  126

                                                 Bangladesh
                 Avian Influenza PreparednessandResponseProject
                             Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalyses


                                                A. Introduction


1.      This annex presents the results o f economic analyses o f the proposed Avian hfluenza
Preparedness and Response Project (AIPRP) and the Avian Influenza (AI) component o f the on-
going Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program (HNPSP).                        The analyses examine
economic impacts o f AI interms of costs incurred without the AIPRP and the AI component o f
HNPSP and economic impacts o fAI interms o fbenefits and costs incurred with the AIPRP and
the AI component ofHNPSP.

                                                B. Background

2.      Outbreaks o f the H5N1 strain o f AI in birds have now been registered in more than 55
countries around the world (including Bangladesh), spreading from what was initially (in late
2003) an East Asian phenomenon. This has been accompanied by an increase in human cases
from 144 in the period from 2003 until end 2005 to 86 in the first six months o f 2006l.
Moreover, the virus has been extremely deadly on those infected with an estimated death rate o f
57% o f all humancases detectedsince 2003.

3.      The mainglobal concern, interms o f economic impacts o fAI, relates to the possibility o f
a future human pandemic through human-to-human transmission o f the H5N1 virus. To date
transmissions have beenbird-to-bird with some cases o fbird-to-human transmissions. The main
economic impact has been on poultry andrelated sectors, particularly inSouth East Asia.

4.      Empirical evidence on the economic impacts o f AI points to two important conclusions.
First, the overall impact on national GDP and GDP growth i s rather small (most countries
affected in Asia continued to grow at approximately the same pace'). The reason for this is that
the poultry sector accounts, on average, for only a very small share o f GDP (normally ina range
o f slightly below 1%to a little over 2% o f GDP) and even a large drop insector output (e.g. 20%
inVietnam) would result in a small overall effect. Second, evidence seems to suggest that the
impact o f AI can actually be quite significant for certain segments of the population and for
specific regions in a country.          For example, despite less than 1% o f the national poultry
population being affected by AI, commercial poultry producers in the capital o f Lao PDR seem
to have lost as much as 40% o f their layer flock due to deaths and culling3.



1   WHO, July 14, 2006. These figures need to be considered cautiously since surveillance o f HPNl has also
    improved over the last few years, thereby leading possibly to more detected cases.
    With the exception ofThailand, which i s a large net exporter ofpoultry.
3   Rushton, J. et al. "Impact o f avian influenza outbreaks in the poultry sectors o f five South East Asian
    countries", FAO, 2005.


                                                        127

5.       The probability o f a future humanpandemic i s difficult to assess, as i s the nature and
severity o f the disease in the event of a future human pandemic through human-to-human
transmissions. Most infection and death scenarios have been established through simulation
models based on pre-defined probability distributions for key variables based on historical data.
Data has been drawn from the Spanish flu (1918-19), the Asian flu o f 1957 and the Hong Kong
flu of 1968-69. Some of the economic models have also used inputs and data available from the
SARS outbreak in Asia. In an attempt to illustrate the order o f magnitude o f a possible human
pandemic, the World Bank Prospects Group estimated a decline in world GDP in the range o f
0.7% and 4.8% o f GDP'. Moreover, the impact would be greater in developing countries
(between 0.6% and 5.3% o f GDP) because o f greater population density, poverty and lower
quality o f health care services. The Asian Development Bank has indicated that the impact on
GDP growth rates for 2006 would range between 2.6% and 6.8% for selected countries from
East, South and Southeast Asia2. Countries most open to trade, and in particular large net
exporters o f services, would be most hit by a human pandemic, because o f the movement o f
people inandout o f the country.


         C. EconomicImpactsof AI without the AIPRP andAI Componentof HNPSP


6.       The status, performance and dynamics o f the poultry sector in Bangladesh are
summarized in Table 1 and Table 2. The total bird population (fowls, 83% o f total; and ducks,
17% o f total) was 220 million in2005; almost evenly (50% each) divided between backyard and
commercial poultry production. Average annual growth inthe birdpopulation inthe last 5 years
has been about 6%. The meat production and birdpopulation ratio was 1.4 (in terms o f number
o f kilograms) in2005. The egg production and birdpopulation ratio was 25 (interms o f eggs) in
2005.     The poultry sector in selected South East Asian countries is presented in Table 3.
Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam are major poultry producers. The poultry population in these
countries has also been seriously affected by AI outbreaks in the last few years. With the
exception o f Thailand, backyard poultry accounts for a large share o f total poultry production.

7.       There are several major difficulties in estimating the economic impact o f AI in
Bangladesh, most o f which would also be valid for other countries. First, scenarios for "gross
attack rates" (GARS)o f AI in the case o f a pandemic, based mostly on past events, are only
approximate3. There i s a lack o f scientific knowledge on the primary factors affecting the spread
o f influenza and scenarios are based on a small number of past observations for which data i s o f
differing quality and i s also quite heterogeneous. Second, there i s no data to assist inpredicting
the probability of any o fthe scenarios for which a possible impact o fAI canbe estimated4.




     World Bank Prospects Group, "Global Development Finance, 2006".
     See Bloom et al., "Potential Economic Impact o f an Avian Flu Pandemic on Asia", November 2005, ERD
     Policy BriefNumber 42.
     Gross Attack Rate (GAR) =percentage o f clinical influenza illness cases per population.
4    On this topic, see conclusions by Meltzer et al. "The Economic Impact of Pandemic Influenza in the United
     States: Priorities for Intervention", 1999, CDC Emerging Infectious Diseases.


                                                        128

                                  Table 1:PoultrySector inBangladesh

                                                          PoultryPopulation(millionbirds)
                   Poultry Sector                     2001  1    2002   I    2003   I    2004     I   2005
       Fowls                                        142.68     152.24      162.44      172.63        183.45
         Backyard                                    57.07       60.9       64.98       69.06         73.38
         Commercial                                  85.61       91.34      97.46      103.57        110.07
        Ducks                                        33.83       34.67      35.54         36.4        37.28
         Backyard                                    33.83       34.67      35.54         36.4        37.28
         Comiercial                                      0           0           0            0           0
        Total                                       176.51     186.91      197.98      209.03        220.73
        Growth (%)                                                 5.9        5.9          5.6          5.6
        Backyard                                     90.90       95.57     100.52      105.46        110.66
      I Commercial                              I    85.61       91.34      97.46      103.57        110.07 I

        Source: Government of Bangladesh and private sector representatives

             Table 2: EstimatesofRatiosofMeat andEgg ProductionRelativeto
                                     BirdPopulationinBangladesh

                        Item                             2001   I    2002   I      2003   I     2004  I   2005
    Total birdpopulation (million birds)                176.51     186.91        197.98      209.03     220.73
    Total meat production (million kg)                    210         220            230          250      300
    Total eggproduction (million)                        4094        4424          4777         4780      5625
    Meat production/ birdpopulation(kg)                     1.2         1.2          1.2           1.2      1.4
    Eggproduction/ birdpopulation (egg)                     23           24          24            23       25

      Source: Government of Bangladesh and private sector representatives.

                     Table 3: PoultrySectors andAI Impactin Southeast Asia

                    Number                         TotalBird             ShareinEachSector (YO)
      Country       of Birds      YOof Bird       Population Sector Sector Sector                    Sectors
                    Affected      Population       (number)          1          2          3          4&5
     Cambodia          22,948         0.1            16,300,000      0          2          7           90
     Indonesia     16,188,000         5.9         275,290,000        4        21          12           64
     Lao PDR           150,920        0.8            18,865,000      0          1          9           90
     Thailand      25,900,000         10.3        252,630,000       70        20          20           10
     Viet Nam      43,170,000         16.5        261,864,000        0        23          18           60

     Source: Rushton, J. et al. "Impact of avian influenza outbreaks in the poultry sectors o f five South East
     Asian countries", FAO, 2005.



8.      A fair degree o f sophistication can be adopted in estimating the economic impact o f AI
by, for example, differentiating between age -groups, for likelihood o f a medical visit,
hospitalization or death (allowing for better use of data from past pandemics since there i s a
differential impact across age groups). However, given the limitations o f data inBangladesh and


                                                        129

the uncertainty surrounding any estimates, the present economic analysis is based on six basic
possible "Gross Attack Rate" (GAR) scenarios. These are described below and a summary of
the scenarios andtheir assumptions are reportedinTable 4.


                Table4: PossibleGAR ScenariosConsideredfor EconomicImpact

                                                      GAR Scenarios (%)
                  Population         I I1                I11         IV         V            VI
                I Poultry           0.7        10.0     20.0        20.0       20.0         20.0
                  Humans        I   0.0        0.1       1.0        15.0       20.0         30.0    I

9.      Scenario (I) the case o f countries such as Cambodia or Lao PDR where under one
                      i s
percent o f the poultry population was infectedby AI. Scenario (11) reflects a gross attack rate on
the poultry sector similar to those registered in Indonesia and Thailand, together with a small
number o f the human population being infected by the disease (essentially bird-to-human
transmission). Scenario (111) reflects the worst case scenario interms of the poultry sector with a
total bird population affected o f 20% (approximately the case o f Vietnam) but still a small
number o f humans infected. Scenarios (IV) to (VI) consider a pandemic in birds and also in
humans with variable GARSfor the latter'. As mentioned above these are only indications o f
what may happen and are not intended to cover all possible scenarios. For example, one could
theoretically have a humanpandemic with no major part o fthe birdpopulation being infected.

10.      In the case of the poultry sector, two economic impacts are considered: (i) of                  value
production lost, which depends on the GAR and assumptions concerning selling prices and
average meat and egg production per bird; and (ii)one off 30% reduction in sellingprices due
                                                               a
to initial consumer fears about the disease (experience from other countries inthe region suggest
that prices tend to recover very quickly following outbreaks, as more reliable information
becomes available).       Because o f a lack o f information on elasticities and sector details, the
impact on other protein producing sectors, as consumers shift demand away from poultry
products, has not been taken into consideration.                The impact on trade from any restrictions
imposed, inthe event of AI outbreaks, has also not been taken into consideration, as Bangladesh
i s not a net exporter o f poultry products. However, it is an importer o f parent stock and the
current banon imports from 53 countries, including India, has substantially increased the price o f
day old chicks in the count$.         This reported increase inprices for day old chicks, due to trade
restrictions, has not been taken into consideration in calculating the economic value o f
production since usingcurrent market prices would overestimate economic costs o f AI.

 11.     Inthe case o fthe humanspopulation, three economic impacts are considered: (i) of               value
working days lost due to illness; (ii) cost of hospitalizations; (iii) value o f earnings
                                              the                                      present


I   WHO suggests that more than 25% o f world populationcanbe affected. Meltzer et al. assume gross attack rates
    between 15% and 35% for the US. InBangladesh, as compared with other countries, the highpopulation density
    may well cause a higher proportion of the population to be affected incase o f a pandemic.
    Based on interviews with private sector representatives, the increases in DOC prices were inthe order o f around
    4 times since 2003 when outbreaks inneighboring countries took place.


                                                        130

lost due to deaths. The number of illness cases i s basically dependent on the GAR assumed and
the size ofpopulation inBangladesh, which was at 147.4 million in2006 and i s assumedto grow
at 1.5% per year. The number o fhospitalizations i s basedon WHO suggestedrates o f 10% of all
infectedcases andthe number o f deaths is assumedto be 1.5% oftotal affectedpersons.

12.     The main assumptions for estimating the economic impact o f AI are the following. For
the poultry sector it is assumedthat: (i) impact is on the initial birdpopulation andthere is a
                                        the
4% annual growth rate assumed (lower than average growth rate over the last five years of 6%);
(ii) isanaverageof1.4kgofmeatperbirdand25eggsayearperbirdatapriceofTk.60
    there
per kg of meat and Tk.3 per egg; and (iii) used are below the market prices, which were
                                           prices
impacted by the import ban, at around 85 T k k g for broilers in2006. For the humanpopulation,
it is assumed that: (i) value of working days lost amounts to 10 days at a cost per person o f
                        the
Tk.2Yday; (ii)  the additional cost per person hospitalized is Tk.5,250 which is equivalent to
about US$15 per day for 5 days; and (iii)the present value o f earnings per person is
Tk.760Imonth and 10 years work discounted at a rate of 12%.

13.     The results from the calculations indicate several possible AI impacts depending on the
scenariosof poultry andhumantransmission considered, as shown inTable 5 below. The impact
ranges from losses of US$154 million or 0.3% o f GDP in the case o f just 0.7% of the bird
population being affected to US$1.2 billion in losses in the case o f both severe human and
poultrypandemic, which would bemore than 2% of Bangladesh's GDP. Moreover, inthe human
pandemic scenario, one couldexpect between2,000 and663,000 lost lives.


                  Table5: EstimatedEconomicImpactofAI inBangladesh

                                GAR(Yo)                          Impact
                                                                             Human
            Scenario                                                         deaths
                                                      US$       As % o f    (rounded
                           Poultry     Humans        million     GDP         figures)
                I            0.7         0.0          154         0.3           0
                I1           10.0        0.1          203         0.4         2,000

               nJ
               I11           20.0        1.o          283         0.5        22,000
                             20.0        15.0         740         1.3        332,000
               V             20.0       20.0          902         1.6        442,000
               VI            20.0        30.0        1.228        2.2        663.000



         D. EconomicimpactofAIPRP,AI ComponentofHNPSPandAI Program


 14.    In response to the threat of AI, the Government of Bangladesh has prepared an AI
national Plan. The proposedAIprogram, comprisingthe proposedAIPRP and an AI component
o f the on-going HNPSP, is broadly part of this Plan. The total cost of the AI program is
estimatedto beUS$37 million, comprising US$21 million for the AIPRP and US$16 million for
the AI component of the HNPSP, spread over 5 years.


                                               131

15.     The economic costs are derived from the financial datapresented inAnnex 5. The capital
and recurrent costs o f the AIPRP andthe AI component o f HNPSP are spread over 5 years and it
i s assumed that the recurrent costs, spread over a subsequent 10 years, are financed by the
Government o fBangladesh. The benefits o fthe AIPRP are measured interms of: (i) loss income
avoided due to saved production; and (ii)   income loss avoided due price decreases. The benefits
o f the AI Component o f the HNPSP are measured interms of: (i)    working days lost avoided; (ii)
hospitalisation costs avoided; and (iii) present value o f earning lost avoided. The benefits are
                                        the
spread over 15 years so as to correspond with the 5 plus 10 years o f costs. A 15-year duration
has been used as it represents the usefd life o f most investments supported during the project.
The Net Present Value (NPV) - the value today o f benefits minus costs incurred in the future -
uses a 12 % discount rate and has been calculated for both the AIPRP and the AI Component o f
the HNPSP. The results are presented inTable 6.

             Table 6: EstimatedEconomicImpactof the AIPRP, AI Componentof
                                 the HNPSPandthe AI Program

                               GAR (Yo)                     NPV (US$ million)
           Scenario                                                AI
                                                              Component          AI
                          Poultry  I  Humans        AIPRP    I ofHNPSP     I Program
               I            0.7           0.0         -25         -22           -47
              I1            10.0          0.1          14         -20            -6

              lv
              I11           20.0          1.o          56          2             58
                            20.0          15.0         56         337           393
              V             20.0         20.0          56         457           513
              VI            20.0         30.0          56         697           743


16.     The results o f the economic analysis o f the AIPRP, AI component o f the HNPSP and the
AI Program summarize net present values under the six GAR scenarios. In the case o f low
GARs on the poultry and humanpopulations, the negative N F V s indicate that the costs incurred
tend to outweigh the corresponding benefits over a period 15 years. Inthe event o f the GARs in
the region o f 10 percent in the case o f the poultry population and 1% in the case o f the human
population, the positive N F V s indicate that the benefits incurred tend to outweigh the
corresponding costs over the 15 years. The AIPRP provides benefits, especially if there i s an
outbreak o f AI that impacts upon the poultry population, in Bangladesh, comparable with those
that have occurred in South East Asia. The benefits o f the AI component o f the HNPSP and the
AI Program as a whole, would be considerably greater inthe event o f an impact on the human
population.




                                                132

                                            Bangladesh
                Avian InfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject


                   Annex 10: Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance


        The proposed draR terms o f reference, for part o f the technical assistance requirements,
are divided into two parts: (A) The Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project (animal
health); and (B) the Avian Influenza Component o f HNPSP (humanhealth). However, this list
does not include all the technical assistance that would be needed during implementation o f the
AIProgram.

A. Draft Terms of Reference for the AIPRP

1.      International Technical Assistance for Evaluation and Review of Veterinary
Services and National Policies accordingto International Standards (OIE)

Together with the national consultant and the Department o f Livestock Services o f the Ministry
of Fisheries and Livestock, evaluate and review the capacity required by the Government o f
Bangladesh for making emergency preparedness plans for controlling and eradicating highly
pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) in case o f its incursion inthe country. This will include, but
not limitedto, the following:

           Assess, monitor andevaluate project progress;
        0  Assess the status o f emergency animal disease preparedness inthe country and advise
           on the requirements to improve on this as per OIE guidelines: Performance, Vision
           andStrategy (PVS) for veterinary services (VS);
           Inrelationto the above, the consultant will specifically evaluate the following:

               0   major risk factors for HPAI;
               0   early reporting and response capacity, particularly at the level o f farmers and
                   extension service;
                   capacity inepidemiology;
                   capacity inlaboratory diagnosis o f HPAI;
                   institutional infrastructure andmanpower needs;
                   public awareness and communications needs;
                   fundingneeds; and
                   other issues related to HPAIcontrol.

           Review progress in developing emergency preparedness planning and advise on the
           outcome;
           prepare a list o f equipment required immediately with detailed technical
           specifications;


                                                 133

            Guide further development by making recommendations for implementing all
            activities under each sub-component;
            Prepare a brieftechnical report (inEnglish) on the findings; and
            Carry out any relatedtasks, as required.

Qualifications: The International Consultant will be a veterinary graduate from a recognized
university with a postgraduate qualification in veterinary epidemiology. He/she will have
demonstrated broad expertise in evaluation o f veterinary services, control and prevention of
animal diseases, especially those o f epidemic significance; and have competence and practical
experience o f disease emergency preparedness planning. He/she will have at least 10 years o f
relevant experience in reviewing national policies. Previous experience of work in South Asia
with the ability to develop project documents is highly desirable. He/she must be fully proficient
inEnglish. The consultant, who will bebased inDhaka, would initiallywork for about a month
every year duringthe first three years.

2. NationalTechnicalAssistance for CompensationPolicy

Incollaborationwith the Department ofLivestock Services, MinistryofFisheries and Livestock,
private sector and NGOs, the incumbent will undertake the following activities:

            Prepare a detailed work planfor operational compensation policy to farmers;
            Prepare the compensation policy in collaboration with concerned government
            authorities at all levels (central, district, upazila and village), private sector and
            NGOs;
            Assist in and facilitate modifications in the policy in the event o f incursion o f the
            disease; and
            Assist in the development o f communication and training materials related to
            compensation.

Qualifications:    The National Consultant will be a veterinarian, preferably, with a post graduate
degree in veterinary epidemiology/economics. He/she will have at least 7 years o f relevant
experience in disease control andor disease investigation and diagnostics, including avian
diseases. Someone who has prior experience in formulating and implementing compensation
policywould be given preference. Fluency inEnglishi s required. The consultant would initially
work for about a month every year duringthe first two years. He/she would be based in Dhaka
with frequent travel throughout the country.

3.      Technical Assistance for Data Management to Install and Train Personnel in
TADinfo Application

Under the general supervision o f the Technical Cooperation for Emergency Operations (TCEO)
and in collaboration with the Regional Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases
(ECTAD) Officer, Regional Office for Asia and Pacific (RAP), FA0 and the Department o f
Livestock Services, the incumbent will undertakethe following activities:




                                                134

               Assist in configuring the Java version o f TADinfo with administrative layers in
               Bangladesh and help inits installation at the central level;
               Train central and field staff on the use o f TADinfo data management software for
               animal disease data collection and analysis;
               Assist indeveloping the national animal disease reporting system; and
               Prepare a brieftechnical report (inEnglish).

Qualifications: The TADinfo consultant will be a veterinarian with competence in information
technology, database management or related field. He/she will have at least five years o f relevant
experience with data management and be filly proficient inthe operation o f TADinfo. Fluency
inEnglishis essential. The consultant wouldinitiallywork for one monthduringone assignment
andwillbebased inDhaka.

4.   International Technical Assistance for Strengthening Governance and Updating
Legislation

The consultant will have the overall responsibility to develop a detailedwork planadapted to the
local circumstances and evolving needs for strengthening the governance and updating
legislative issues pertaining to animal health delivery structure with in the Department o f
Livestock Services. Depending on the identified priority needs, hisher contribution could
include, but not limitedto, the following:

               Assess the status o f emergency animal disease preparedness in the country and
               advise on the requirements to improve legislative requirements on this;
               Assist with establishing a National Animal Disease Emergency Committee and
               advise on the process o f preparation o f national emergency preparedness
               (contingency) plans for livestock diseases; and
               Prepare a brieftechnical report inEnglish.

Qualifications: The international consultant will have demonstrated broad expertise in control
and prevention o f animal diseases, especially those o f epidemic significance; with competence
and practical experience o f disease emergency preparedness planning. He/she will have at least
10years o frelevant experience inanimal disease emergency preparedness. Fluency inEnglishis
essential. The consultant would initially work for one month during one assignment and will be
based inDhaka.

5. NationalTechnicalAssistance for StrengtheningGovernanceandUpdatingLegislation

The incumbent will undertake the following activities:

               Collaborate with the international consultant (updating legislation) and the
               Department o f Livestock Services, in updating the legislative requirements for
               major livestock and poultry diseases including avian influenza;
               Facilitate collaboration between international consultant and government
               authorities at all levels (central, district, Upazila, Union and village); and
               Collaborate with the international consultants inpreparing a technical report.


                                                   135

Qualifications: The National Consultant will be a veterinarian, preferably with a post graduate
degree inveterinary epidemiology. He/she will have a good understandingo f national veterinary
services, acts and rules with at least 7 years o f relevant experience in animal disease control
planning and management, both at national and sub-national levels.          Fluency in English i s
essential. The consultant would initially work for a month andwill be based inDhaka.

B. DraftTerms ofReferencesfor the Avian InfluenzaComponentof HNPSP

Background

Beginning in 1997, subtypes o f influenza A virus previous seen only in birds (also known as
avian influenza viruses) began producing disease in humans. Since 2003, a subtype o f avian
influenza (H5N1) has produced widespread outbreaks o f disease inpoultry, and more than 250
cases o f severe illness in humans with more than 50% o f these illnesses being fatal. So far no
poultry or human infections due to H5N1 have been identified in Bangladesh. However, as
surveillance improves, this situation is likely to change. There i s also growing concern that as
H5N1 becomes better adapted to producinginfection and disease inhumans it will spark a global
pandemic with a burden o f illness and mortality. Response to the threat o f avian influenza
requires every country to take steps to monitor, detect, respond to, prevent and control this
disease in animals and humans. The Government o f Bangladesh has developed a National Plan
for dealing with avian andpandemic influenza, and has initiated activities to implement the plan.
The Ministry o f Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) i s the primary implementing agency for
actions involving human avian influenza detection, prevention, and control. These actions will
be taken inpartnership with other ministries, non-governmental organizations, the private sector
and the international organizations. At the request o f the Government, the World Bank has
agreed to support the proposed Avian InfluenzaProgram.

1. Avian InfluenzaTechnicalExpertfor HumanHealth

At present, different officials in the Ministry are responsible for activities and commitments
related to avian influenza, in addition to their other responsibilities. To most efficiently address
this disease, there should be a technical expert whose primary responsibility will be to support
the Director Communicable Diseases in avian and pandemic influenza. This individual will
provide advice to the Ministryregardingthe disease, will implement activities inside the ministry
and with external partners, and will monitor these activities for quality, efficiency, and
timeliness.   The individual will also work with district and local level authorities as they
implement components o f the national plan, AIPRP and the AI Component o f HNPSP. The
expert will be hired under the Project but will work inMOHFW. This positionwill ensure closer
dialogue between the animal health and humanhealth components.

This position will be an appointment in the Ministry o f Health and Family Welfare. Because
most o f the activities related to humanavian influenza fall within the purview o f the Directorate
General o f Health Services (DGHS) and since the position i s scientific and technical in nature,
the individual will be placedinthe Directorate o f Communicable Diseases, but will be linked to
the Institute for Epidemiology and Disease Control Research (IEDCR). The incumbent in this



                                                 136

position i s expected to be scientifically proficient and a technical expert on avian influenza-
related issues, and will coordinate and monitor activities conducted under the AI Component o f
the HNPSP. The expert needs to have a thorough understanding o f sector wide approaches
(SWAPS), HNPSPandthe health system inBangladesh. The individualinthis position will:

            a   assist and provide input on avian influenza related concerns to the Ministry and
                others, as necessary;
            a   ensure integration o f human avian influenza surveillance, laboratory, response,
                supply, andcase management, andthe information derivedfrom these activities;
            a   actively engage innational training efforts for surveillance, case management, and
                investigation relatedto avian andpandemic influenza;
            a   actively participate inthe response to reports o f possible disease inhumans;
            a   actively participant in assuring the safety o f the public and responders when
                incidents o f avian influenza inpoultry or other animals are recognized;
            a   oversee and monitor implementation o f activities under the AI Component o f the
                HNPSP withinrequiredtime frames;
            0   interact with partners, including WHO, other international organizations, NGOs,
                technical consultants, and the private sector;
             a  participate in the technical and policy committees for avian influenza, and assure
                that humanhealth activities are consistent with the national avian influenza plan,
                includingfiture modifications;
             a  provide linkage between the animal health and human health aspects o f AI i.e.
                betweenthe two partso f the AI Program; and
             a  represent the MOHFW at national andinternational meetingsregarding avian and
                pandemic influenza as requested.

The position will be based inthe Ministryo f Health and FamilyWelfare in Dhaka, ideally inthe
Directorate General o f Health Services. The incumbent must possess an advanced degree in
medicine or public health (MD or PhD) and have experience inpublic health programs related to
communicable disease prevention and control. The individual should be fluent in English and
speak Bangla, be able to travel within Bangladesh and internationally, if requested by the
government. The term o f appointment will be for 12months. Based on satisfactory performance
o f duties, the individual can be extended at 12 month intervals for the duration o f the project.
MOHFWwill provide office space and administrative support for this position.

2. Information Technology and Data Management Specialist, Institute for Epidemiology
andDisease ControlResearch(IEDCR)

Successfilly addressing avian and pandemic influenza hinges on being able to collect, analyze,
and disseminates information on what is happening in Bangladesh. A number o f surveillance
mechanisms that will generate significant amounts o f data are being established, and the
laboratory infrastructure i s beingenhanced. One aim o f the project i s to develop the capacity for
electronic entry and transfer o f relevant data to the national surveillance center at IEDCR, and
then post this information on an accessible web site. To accomplish this, IEDCR will need
technical support for application o f information technology in the form o f an information
technology specialist.


                                                 137

The consultant will organize and maintain in electronic fashion the data collected by the
surveillance and laboratory units at IEDCR, and will provide computer support (hardware and
software) to those working in these units. For the surveillance unit to properly function, an
individual familiar with computer programs related to surveillance data is essential for rapid,
timely, and accurate analysis o f the information. Inaddition, for those sources of data that are
computerized, the consultant will develop and implement the means for electronic submission o f
data to the central surveillance unit, including the necessary software. This individualwill also
provide support for information technology related to influenza surveillance at the sentinel sites
and in the districts. Finally, this consultant will help design a web-site for web-based data
submission and to post information relevant to avian influenza, including surveillance data,
guidelines, andprotocols. The specific activities o f this individual will include:

           Maintain and operate computer equipment inthe surveillance unit andlaboratories;
           Develop programs for surveillance and laboratory data entry and storage;
           Develop programs for surveillance and laboratory data analysis, including statistical
           programs;
           Develop programs for production o f tabular data andother data outputs;
           Develop capacity for electronic submission o f data from surveillance sources (e.g.
           district and Upazila health care facilities, NGOs, WHO) that have data transmission
           capacity;
           Assist with programs to produce periodic bulletins;
           Develop a web site for surveillance data andrelated information; and
           Assure confidentiality o f identifiable data entered into computer programs.

The information technology specialist will be based in IEDCR in Dhaka. Some travel may be
required to district health offices and sentinel surveillance sites for assistance with data
management, or to other sources o f surveillance data. The individual should be conversant in
English and Bangla. The individual should have a degree in computer science and be familiar
with hardware and software relevant to public health surveillance and laboratory data. The
duration o f the position i s 12 months, with the potential for extensions, contingent on successhl
performance. IEDCR will provide office space and administrative support for the individual in
thisposition.

3. World HealthOrganization(WHO)

The World Health Organization is a major partner o f MOHFW in a variety o f programs and
activities. It i s the leading international organization dealing with the human health aspects o f
avian and pandemic influenza. Therefore, it is logical that WHO would provide support to the
GOB as it implements its national plan and develops activities that are contained in the AI
Component o f the HNPSP. WHO will support the following activities: (i) review o f the legal
                                                                              the
and regulatory framework for avian and pandemic influenza prevention and control, (ii)
assessments o f regional preparedness, (iii)development of guidelines and protocols, (iv)
development and implementation o f field and tabletop simulations, and (v) development o f plans
for pandemic control (including social distancing measures, surge capacity, and health care
provision). Overall this will involve about 12 manmonths o f international expertise and 38 man


                                                 138

months o f national expertise. It is recommended that MOHFW, after consultation with WHO,
initiate a draft MOU and seek clearance from the World Bank. Further details regarding these
activities are providedbelow.

(i) Legal and Regulatory Framework Review

WHO will provide a technical expert who will review the current Bangladesh legal framework
for disease surveillance, control, and prevention, as they relate to avian influenza and pandemic
preparedness. These activities will be done in concert with a national legal expert who will
continue the review after the international consultant has departed. If the technical experts
identify gaps or insufficiencies in the current legal and regulatory framework, they will make
recommendations to address them, including proposed legislative remedies. The review must
include, at a minimum, the legal andregulatory framework for:


            0   disease surveillance andreporting;
                disease investigations;
                social distancing measures, including quarantine and isolation, closure o f public
                places (including schools, sports venues, private businesses);
                use o f unlicensed products (e.g. vaccines and antiviral), including indemnification
                for adverse consequences o f their use, on an emergency basis;
                use o f unlicensed or retired health care workers inthe event o f the need for surge
                capacity during an influenzapandemic; and
                compatibility and compliance o f the current legal framework with the revised
                International Health Regulations.

The expert should have an advanced degree in law, recognized in Bangladesh, have experience
in dealing with medical or public health legal issues, and have familiarity with legislation and
regulations. The duration o f the work performed i s part o f this activity should be not more than
two (2) months.

(ii) Regiona1PreparednessAssessments

To successfully address avian influenza inBangladesh, and to accomplish many o f the program
goals, activities must be carried out at the regional (division) and district levels. It i s important
to ascertain the degree o f regional preparedness to fulfil these commitments, and if gaps and
problems exist, take corrective actions. To meet this need, the MOHFW will conduct periodic
assessments o f regional preparedness, to include assessment o f surveillance capacity,
investigative capacity, and health care system preparedness. While these assessments will
mainly be carried out by the MOHFW, WHO will provide technical assistance to assure that the
assessments are carried out with adequate rigor and standardization. To this end, WHO will
provide a technical expert to develop the survey instruments that will be used, to develop the
assessment scheme, and assist in the actual conduct o f the assessments if necessary. The
Ministry has proposed conducting an assessment in each o f the six regions over the first 12-
month period of the project. These first year assessments will serve as baselines for subsequent
evaluations, which will be repeated in all six regions each o f the two subsequent years o f the
project. In each region, at least randomly selected districts should be surveyed for surveillance


                                                 139

capacity, for investigative capacity, and for health care facility capacity. In each region, at least
one ofthe three sentinel surveillance sites should also be visited to ascertain how closely they are
adhering to guidelines. Specific activities include:

                Develop survey instruments and methods for regional assessments. Because at
                least one round o f surveys needs to be conducted in the first 12-month period,
                these instruments should be available duringthe early phases o f the project;
                Submit the survey instrument to the MOHFW for review and approval before it i s
                to be utilized inthe actual surveys;
                Develop randomization methods for selecting districts to be evaluated duringeach
                regional visit;
                Training persons from the MOHFW engaged inthe regional surveys and assuring
                the survey instrument canbe appropriately administered;
                Participation inregional assessmentteams, as necessary;
                Assist with data entry and analysis o f survey information;
                Assist with dissemination (inthe form of reports) o f findings; and
                Recommendcorrective actions for deficiencies identifiedduring field evaluations.

(iii) Protocol and Guideline Development

WHO will assist the MOHFW in developing national guidelines related to avian and pandemic
influenza inthe following areas: standardized disease surveillance; humandisease investigation
and outbreak response to findings in either poultry or humans; and case management, including
prophylaxis and treatment. It i s essential that these guidelines be developed in the early phases
o f the project, as they will form the basis for subsequent training o f personnel performing these
activities and caring for patients suspected to have this disease. Since such guidelines have been
produced by a number o f international organizations and countries, for maximal efficiency these
existingmaterials should be used as the basis for specific guidelines and protocols to be used in
Bangladesh. Specific activities under this component will include:

                 Collect and review existing guidelines for disease surveillance, case and outbreak
                 investigation, and case management from selected international organizations and
                 nationalpublic health agencies;
                 Adapt these materials for the Bangladeshpublic health and clinical context;
            0    Disease surveillance guidelines should include standardized case definitions for
                 suspected and confirmed cases, reporting channels from the clinician to the
                 national level, standardized case reporting and specimen collection forms, and
                 information on proper specimen collection and submission;
                 Develop standardized protocols that address sentinel surveillance for influenza-
                 like illness;
                 Case and outbreak investigation guidelines should include information on team
                 composition, information necessary to be collected, standardized data collection
                 forms, contact tracing, risk factor evaluation, specimen collection and submission,
                 implementation o f prevention and control measures, follow-up, and report
                 writing;



                                                  140

               Case management guidelines should include information on case recognition and
               clinical presentation, notification, treatment and prophylaxis, isolation o f patients
               andcontacts, personal protective measures, andinfection control;
               Guidelines and protocols should be reviewed by external technical experts for
               content before submission to the MOHFW;
               All guidelines and protocols will be submitted to the MOHFW for review and
               approval before beingusedfor training or disease prevention andcontrol efforts;
               Guidelines and protocols should be reviewed at least annually for content and the
               need for modification or updating as new information becomes available or the
               international situation changes;
               Any modifications to existing guidelines should be submitted to the MOHFW for
               review and approval;
               Once any new or modified guidelines are approved, they should be made
               available in electronic and printed format for distribution to public health
               authorities, surveillance coordinators, rapid response teams, and clinicians
               throughout Bangladesh for use; and
               Once approved, protocols and guidelines should be provided to IEDCR and their
               trainingpartners to form the basis o ftheir training activities.

(iv) Tabletop and Field Simulations

Although it is critical to have written organizational diagrams, guidelines, protocols, and
operational plans, it i s not possible to know how these perform and what gaps exist unless they
can be exercised. There are two ways to do that. One is to respond to actual disease situations.
This is not the time to determine that there are problems. The second is to perform simulations
to identifyproblems ahead o ftime. The project supports the development o f simulations.

WHO will develop two types o f simulation exercises.          One i s tabletop exercises, where a
scenario i s developed and the key players (government officials, NGOs, private sector,
international partners) indicate how they will respond. The other i s actual field exercises, where
mock illness occurs and various responders are tested to assess their knowledge and approach to
handling this disease. WHO will develop and assist in the implementation of each type o f
exercise. In order to identify gaps and problems, some o f these exercises need to be conducted
during the early phases of the project. The project will support three tabletop exercises and six
field exercises (one per region) over the first three years o f the project. At least one o f these
exercises should involve utilization o f social distancing measures. Specific activities include:

               Collect and review simulation exercise protocols that are available from
               international organizations and other countries;
               Adapt these scenarios to the Bangladesh context as the basis for the tabletop and
               field simulations;
               Develop written versions o fthe scenarios;
            0  One simulation exercise (tabletop and field) should involve findings o f avian
               influenza inpoultry, while the others should involve a case cluster or outbreak o f
               humanavianinfluenzadisease. The later scenario should include issuesrelated to
               implementation o f social distancingmeasures;


                                                  141

            a  Submit a synopsis (not the actual scenario) of the scenarios to the MOHFW for
               review and approval;
            a  Working with the, MOHFW schedule the tabletop and field simulation exercises.
               For the tabletop exercises, issue invitations to relevant persons based upon the
               scenario;
            a  Identifythe locations andvenues to conduct the tabletop and field simulations;
            a  Field simulations should ideally test bothurbanandrural preparedness;
            a  Develop the necessary materials for the exercises;
            a  Distributenecessary material to relevant participants ahead o f each event so that
               participants can be best prepared;
            a  Conduct the simulations;
            e  Develop a post-exercise report, including lessons learned, gaps, and issues that
               mustbe corrected;
            a  Submitthereport to appropriate national, district, andUpazila authorities; and
            a  Modify guidelines, protocols, and training materials based on the results o f the
               exercises.

(v) Plansfor Case Management, Health Care Worker Surge Capacity, and Social Distancing
during an Influenza Pandemic

WHO will assist in developing options and strategies for handling several critical aspects of
response to an influenza pandemic. These include strategies to handle large numbers o f ill
persons inthe midst o f a pandemic when the health care infrastructure (both out- and in-patient)
will likely be overwhelmed; strategies to increase the health care workforce, emphasizing retired
and nonworking trained health care workers, and a volunteer workforce; planning and
implementing social distancing measures, including school, business, and other closures, and
quarantine; and planningfor mortuary-relatedneeds. To do so, WHO will:

               Review a sample o f existing guidelines and policies regarding health care surge
               during a pandemic, expansion o f the health care workforce, implementation of
               social distancing measures, andmortuary needs;
               Hold discussions with a variety o f stake-holders regarding the issue, including
               (but not limited to) officials o f the , other relevant ministries (e.g. education,
               sports, communication, home, defense), NGOs, international organizations
               working inBangladesh, the business community, provincial and local authorities,
               andreligious institutions;
               Develop plans and strategies for health care surge, health care workforce
               expansion, social distancing, and mortuary services;
               Health care surge component should emphasize measures that do not require
               hospitalization or increasedutilization of overwhelmedhealth care facilities;
               Develop strategies for certifying personnel who may be recruited but unlicensed
               to provide care duringa pandemic;
               Provide guidelines and protocols to the regarding these four areas for review and
                approval;




                                                142

             0   Assure buy-in from other ministries, organizations, and entities that will be
                 impactedor expected to play a role inresponse regardingapprovedprotocols; and
             0   Participate in any field and tabletop exercises regarding these pandemic
                 preparedness issues.

The roles and responsibilities o f WHO under these terms o f reference can be implemented using
the existing offices in Dhaka. The MOHFW should make available personnel and meeting
facilities to expedite the implementationo fproject. Many o f the required activities have specific
timelines. The overall agreement with WHO should be for a 12-month period, with the option
for two 12-month extensions, based on satisfactory performance. Subsequent agreements may
partition each o f the activities so that certain activities demonstrating adequate performance can
be continued, while others not demonstrating satisfactory performance may be cancelled or
modified.

4. InternationalCenter for DiarrhoealDiseasesResearch,Bangladesh(ICDDR,B)

         A major pillar o fthe nationalplanfor avian andpandemic influenza, andthe AI Program
to implement the national plan, i s to upgrade the laboratory capacity o f the MOHFW. This will
be done in several ways - procurement o f rapid diagnostic kits for use in sentinel sites and
referral facilities, development o f real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) capacity at
IEDCR, and the development o f virus isolatiodbiosafety level 3 capacity at IEDCR. The
development o f the RT-PCR and settingup o f BSL-3 will take some time to implement, as both
involve facilities improvements (in the case of RT-PCR, renovation; in the case o f virus
isolation, a prefabricated laboratory). ICDDR,B i s creating similar capacities, and may have the
ability to do these things before IEDCR. Therefore, while capacity i s being developed at
IEDCR, there should be a formal memorandum of understanding (MOU) developed between the
MOHFW and ICDDRB in three areas: (i)active sharing o f information from sentinel
surveillance networks and laboratory findings; (ii)     support for laboratory diagnostics (PCR and
virus isolation) until such capacity exists at IEDCR, and (iii)       back-up support to IEDCR in
laboratory diagnostics, outbreak investigation, and engineering services once project activities
have commenced. The M O U between and ICDDR,B should be for three years and subject to
extension based upon need and performance. All activities should be able to be carried out
within the facilities ofthe respective institutions.

5. Procurementof Pharmaceuticals,Biologics,EquipmentandSupplies

         There would be a need to procure a variety o fpharmaceuticals, biologics, equipment, and
supplies for use in Bangladesh at the national, district, and sub-district levels. Although this
procurement will be done by following agreed procurement guidelines, for maximum
effectiveness the following terms o freference should be adhered to.

             0   All materials purchased must be certified by WHO as meeting international
                  standards when such certification is available.     For material not certified by
                 WHO, the products should meet the appropriate alternative body's certification
                  standard;




                                                  143

               Inthe case of pharmaceuticals andbiologics, the products must be approved for
               use inBangladesh;
               For pharmaceuticals, both adult and paediatric formulations will need to be
               obtained;
               Products obtained should have the longest possible shelf-life or expiration date
               reasonably available on the market;
               When available, generic WHO-approved drugs should be substituted for more
               expensive non-generic formulations;
               Vendors should assure the safe storage and transport for purchased material and
               products until they are handed over to the health authorities for distribution to end
               users;
               Personal protective equipment includes disposable masks (N95 or greater),
               gowns, gloves, and shoe covers, andre-useable goggles. The latter are usedonly
               for care o f severely illpatients and should be reserved for distribution to isolation
               or regional referral wards;
               Line Director for Communicable Diseases should consult with infectious disease
               specialists regarding the quantities and types o f antimicrobial agents to be
               obtained for use in referral facilities and district hospitals. The antimicrobial
               agents obtained should be compatible with the national formulary, be available in
               both adult and paediatric forms, and be in oral and intravenous formulations.
               Priority should be given to antimicrobial agents that are active against
               Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, and Streptococcuspneumoniae.
               The least expensive but still effective products should be obtained duringthe first
               12-month period o f the project. Once quantities o f each product are determined,
               sufficient product should be obtained in the next two 12-month periods for a 50%
               replacement rate o f the item;
               Surface disinfection and hand-washing are very important actions to reduce the
               spread o f respiratory pathogens, including influenza viruses. Low cost surface
               disinfectants should be obtained for use in health care facilities, including
               designated regional referral hospitals, district hospitals and sub-district health
               facilities. Hand-washing material (both soap and alcohol-based hand sanitizers)
               should be obtained andprovided for distribution to these facilities; and
               Supplies needed to administer            seasonal influenza vaccine,      intravenous
               medications, and surface disinfectants, should be obtained and distributed to the
               locations where these products will be administered during the first 12-month
               period o f the project. Once quantities are defined, sufficient product for a 50%
               replacement rate should be obtained.

6. Health Care FacilitiesRenovationand Upgrading for Case Management

       To provide effective patient care and reduce morbidity and mortality from avian
influenza, there i s a need for specialized services for the isolation and treatment o f suspected or
confirmed cases.      At the moment, the health care system of Bangladesh is not ready to
effectively meet this need. To mitigate this, the HNPSP will support the renovation o f district
level hospitals (one hospital per district) as referral sites for persons with suspectedor confirmed
avian influenza. The HNPSP will also support renovation o f wards designated for care o f


                                                  144

persons with suspected or confirmed avian influenza (isolation wards). It i s expected that these
wards will be used to care for patients with other priority communicable diseases (especially
those where isolation may be necessary) when they are not being used for patients with avian
influenza. All activities needto be carried out according to the guidelines approved by the andin
close collaboration with the hospital management team and district health department. Specific
activities include:

                 Selection o f a suitable place inside the hospital for the isolation and treatment o f
                avian influenza cases that can accommodate at least 5 beds. The site should be
                 safely away from other patient care and visitor areas (either geographically or
                through adequate partition);
                Design and minor renovation o f the isolation ward and its related annexes so that
                 it meets standards for care o fpatients with severe respiratory disease. Renovation
                 should include bathroom facilities separate from other parts o fthe facility;
                 Maintenance o f the isolation facility to assure it i s fully operational;
                 Installation o f negative pressure ventilation through outside venting o f air with
                 respect to hallways and other patient care areas;
                 Procurement, installation and maintenance o f equipment for care o f patients with
                 respiratorydisease (e.g. oxygen generators, suction equipment);
                 Adequate storage and security o fmedications, PPE, and consumables;
                 Selection o f competent staff for case management training;
                 Utilization o f the ward for other purposes when not being used for avian influenza
                 cases, with priority given to diseasesrequiring isolation;
                 The ward should be immediately available for the isolation and care o f avian
                 influenza cases upon arrival to the facility;
                 Assure standards o f care based on the case management guidelines approved by
                 WHO;
                 Assure safeguard for adequate infection control are in place, including waste
                 disposal;
                 Reporting to district and national health authorities on the number and status o f
                 cases cared for inthe facility according to surveillance guidelines;
                 Cooperating with district and national health authorities in the conduct o f special
                 epidemiologic studies relatedto avian influenza; and
                 Updatingregularly the hospital management and district health department on the
                 status o f operations.

The MOHFW will provide the following inputs: (i)relevant available information about
facilities, health-care status o f population, and results o f surveys and special studies, (ii)
                                                                                               copies
o f standard guidelines for case management and case reporting (including reporting forms); (iii)
access to MOHFW training courses; (iv) copies o f key reports and investigations carried out in
Bangladesh and important studies and background material from the international literature; (v)
technical assistance, when needed; and (vi) antivirals, PPE, other drugs, consumables and
equipment.

The facility will provide the quarterly reports related to activities undertaken in fulfilment o f
these terms o f reference. The quarterly report will include the following sections: (i)     progress


                                                   145

made against the work plan; (ii) group is performing the work; (iii)
                                 what                                     problems encountered
and solutions undertaken. Such reports will be furnished within one month o f the end o f the
quarter. Inaddition, the facility will follow surveillance requirements for reporting o f cases o f
suspected or confirmed avian influenza.




                                               146

                                    Bangladesh
             Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                   Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision




Bankfunds expendedto date on projectpreparation
     1.Bankresources:US$131,785.34
     2. FAOKP: US$55,000.00
     3. Total: US$186,785.34

EstimatedApprovalandSupervisioncosts:
      (a) Remaining costs to approval: US$30,000.00
      (b) Estimated annual supervisioncosts: US$lOO,OOO.OO




                                         147

                                     Bangladesh
           Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project

                      Annex 12: Documentsin the Project File


A. GovernmentofBangladesh

   1.     NationalAvian Influenza and Human Pandemic Influenza Preparednessand
          Response Plan, Bangladesh, 2006-2008, April I 7, 2006.
   2.     Bangladesh: Avian Influenza Prevention Program, (draft), 2006.
    3.    Bangladesh: National Communication Strategy and Action Planfor Avian
          Influenza and Human Pandemic Influenza, 2007-2008, February 2007.
   4.     Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Framework (ESSMF) and the
          Environment Management Plan (EMP)for Avian Influenza Preparedness and
          Response Project, (draft), May 15, 2007.
    5.    Avian Influenza Operation Manual (draft), January 2007.
    6.    CompensationStrategy (draft), 2007.

B. The WorldBank :Bangladesh

    1.    TechnicalReview Mission Aide Memoire, April 9-16, 2006.
    2.    Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, June 25 -July 10, 2006.
    3.    Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, December 4-19, 2006.
    4.    Technical Annexfor theA I Program, June 2007.

C.  The WorldBank : Global

    I.    Program Framework Documentfor the GlobalProgramfor Avian Influenza
          Controland Human Pandemic Preparednessand Response (GPAI), December 5,
          2005.
    2.    Enhancing Control of highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in Developing Countries
          through Compensation:Issues and GoodPractice, 2006.

D.  Others

    1.    BRAC-BDP Report on BRACAvian Influenza Prevention Programme, November
          2005 -August 2006.
    2.    Protect Poultry -Protect People: Basic Advicefor Stopping the Spread of Avian
          Flu, ECTAD, FAO, 2006.
    3.    Avian Influenza :General Information, OIE, 2006.
    4.    NationalLivestock Policy, DLS, MOFL, August 2006.
    5.    Assessment of HPAI Capability in Laboratory Facilities in Bangladesh, draft
          mission report by international F A 0 Consultant, July 17, 2006.




                                          148

                                                           Bangladesh
                          Avian Influenza Preparedness and Response Project
                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loans andCredits

                                                                                                                      Differencebetween
                                                                                                                     expected and actual
                                                               Original Amount inUS$ Millions                           disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.   Orig.      Frm. Rev'd
P100330    2007 BD Railway       Reform      Programmatic  0.00      40.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     40.29    0.00       0.00
                DevPolicy
PO98273    2006 Local Governance Support Project           0.00      111.50     0.00      0.00   0.00     112.33   -0.08      0.00
PO89382    2006 Investment Promotion Financing Facility    0.00      50.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     47.35    -1.25      0.00
PO74841    2005 HNP Sector Program                         0.00      300.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     361.48   -56.05     0.00
PO86661    2004 iBD Water Supply ProgramProject
                    -                                      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00   0.00     39.57    0.77       0.00
PO83890    2004 Economic     Management      T A  Program  0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00   0.00     19.64    8.74       0.00
                (EMTAP)
PO86791    2004 Reaching Out of School ChildrenProject     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00   0.00     43.19    3.65       0.00
PO81969    2004 EnterpriseGrowth & Bank Modernization      0.00      250.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     140.99   50.42      0.00
PO74966    2004 Primary Education Development Program      0.00      150.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     99.36    2.92       0.00
                I1
PO78707    2004 Power Sector Development T A               0.00      7.10       0.00      0.00   0.00     13.86    9.77       1.93
PO53578    2003 Social Investment ProgramProject           0.00      18.24      0.00      0.00   0.00     5.63     3.60       0.00
PO71435    2003 Rural Transport ImprovementProject         0.00      190.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     126.17   54.76      0.00
PO62916    2003 Central Bank StrengtheningProject          0.00      37.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     36.37    32.50      0.00
PO81849    2003 BD: Telecommunications Technical Assist.   0.00      9.12       0.00      0.00   0.00     7.82     5.10       1.89
PO74731    2002 Financial Services for the Poorest         0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00   0.00     1.78     1.07       0.00
PO75016    2002 Public Procurement ReformProject           0.00      4.50       0.00      0.00   0.00     0.34     -0.35      -0.48
PO71794    2002 Rural Elect. Renewable EnergyDev.          0.00      190.98     0.00      0.00   0.00     91.16    46.91      0.00
PO44876    2002 Female Secondary School Assis. I1          0.00      120.90     0.00      0.00   31.06    25.11    38.32      -5.35
PO74040    2002 Renewable Energy Development               0.00      0.00       0.00      8.20   0.00     1.97     6.21       0.00
PO69933    2001 HIVIAIDS Prevention                        0.00      40.00      0.00      0.00   21.98    2.09     19.67      -0.33
PO57833    2001 Air Quality Management Project             0.00      4.71       0.00      0.00   0.00     2.65     2.15       -0.54
PO50752    2001 Post-Literacy & ContinuingEducation        0.00      53.30      0.00      0.00   0.00     29.37    21.26      -1.74
PO44810    2001 Legal & Judicial Capacity Building         0.00      30.60      0.00      0.00   0.04     15.03    10.57      0.00
PO41887    1999 Municipal Services                         0.00      138.60     0.00      0.00   0.68     36.88    34.08      22.36

                                                    Total:   0.00    1.751.55     0.00      8.20  53.76   1.300.43 294.74      17.74




                                                                    149

                                                 BANGLADESH
                                            STATEMENT OFIFC's

                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                             InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                     Committed                              Disbursed

                                                    IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval Company                      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic. Loan       Equity      Quasi  Partic.
2001        BRAC Bank                    0.00     1.63      0.00     0.00     0.00      1.60       0.00    0.00
1997        DBH                          1.91     0.65      0.00     0.00     1.91      0.65       0.00    0.00
1991        Dynamic Textile              0.00     0.00      0.00     1.48     0.00      0.00       0.00    1.48
            GTFP DhakaBank               5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     5.00      0.00       0.00    0.00
            GTFP EasternBnk              2.59     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.59      0.00       0.00    0.00
2004        GrameenPhoneLtd              24.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     24.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
2006        GrameenPhoneLtd              59.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00
1998        IPDC                         3.13     0.00      0.00     0.00     3.13      0.00       0.00    0.00
1998        Khulna                       10.40    0.00      0.00     11.99    10.40     0.00       0.00    11.99
1998        Lafarge/Surma                35.00    10.00     0.00     0.00     35.00     10.00      0.00    0.00
2000        Lafarge/Surma                0.00     0.00      0.00     15.00    0.00      0.00       0.00    15.00
2003        RAKCeramics                  7.20     0.00      0.00     0.00     7.20      0.00       0.00    0.00
2000        United Leasing               2.57     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.57      0.00       0.00    0.00

                        Total portfolio: 150.80     12.28     0.00    28.47     91.80    12.25       0.00   28.47




                                                                 Approvals Pending Commitment
             FY Approval     Companv                         Loan      Eauitv      Ouasi      Partic.
             2000            USPCL                         0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00
             1998            Khulna                        0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00
                                   Totalpendingcommitment:  0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                          150

                   BangladeshAvianInfluenzaPreparednessandResponseProject

                                                Annex 14:Countryat a Glance
                                      Bangladesh at a glance                                                                                5/9/07



POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                       South         Low.
                                                       Bangladeah         Asla       Income        Development diamond.
2006
Population, mid-year (mllllons)                                144.4      1,470        2,353
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               460        684          560                        Life expectancy
GNi (Atlas method. US%billions)                                 69,9      1,005        1,364
Average annual growth, 2000-06
Population (%)                                                    1.e        1.7         1.e
Labor force (%)                                                   2.2        2.1         2.3                                                Gross
                                                                                                                                          primary
Most recent eatlmate (latest year avallable, 2000-06)                                              capita                               enrollmenl
Poverty I%of population below nationalpoverfy h e )               50
Urban population (% of total population)                          25         29           31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  63         63           59                               i
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                          56         66           60
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                         48         45           39            Access to imoroved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)               74         84           75
Literacy (% of population age 15+)                                41         60           62
Gross primary enrollmenl (% of school-age population)            109         110         104               -         Bangladesh
   Male                                                          107         116         110                          Low-income group
                                                                                                             ~
   Female                                                        111         105          99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1966        1996      2006         2006         Economlc ratios.
GDP IUS$ billions)                                   21.2        40.7      60.0         62.0
Gross capital formationIGDP                          16.7        20.0      24.5         25.0
Exports of goods and ServicesIGDP                     5.4        11.1       16.6        17.6                             Trade
Gross domestic savingsIGDP                            9,6        12.4      20.0         20.3
Gross national savingsIGDP                           16.9        20.0      25.8         26.6                               T
Current account balance/GDP                          -5.1        -3.2       -0.9         0.9
Interest paymentsIGDP                                 0.7         0.5        0.4                   Domestic                           Capital
Total debVGDP                                        36.1        37.7      30.6                    savings                            formation
Total debt service/exporls                           26.4        11.4        5.8
Present value of debVGDP                                                   22.0                                            i

Present value of debtlexports                                              96.5
                                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                         1986-96 1996-06        2006      2006       2006-10
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          4.2      5.4         6.0        6.7         6.3                  -Bangladesh
GDP per capita                               1.6      3.4         4.0        4.8         4.5                          Low-income arouo
Exports of goods and services               11.7      9.6        15.6       15.7        12.5




Industry                                             21.5        24.9       27.2        28.1      '0
   Manufacturing                                     14.0        15.4       16.5         17.2                               c
                                                                                                                            <
Services                                             46.5        49.5       52.6        52.4
                                                                                                                                               I
Household final consumption expenditure              85.8        83.2       76.4        76.1                  O ?    02    03     04    05    06
General gov't final consumption expenditure           4.3         4.4        5.5         5.6
 imports of goods and services                       12.2        16.7       23.0        24.4                     -GCF           -GDP




                                                      2.3         3.6        2.2         4.5                                                      I
                                                                                                  'OT




 Gross capital formation                              6.7         8.6       10.7         6.0                  -Exports          -O'lmporls



 Note: 2006 data are preliminary estimates. Group data are for 2005
 *The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missina. the diamond will
   be incomplete.




                                                                       151

                                                                                                          Bangladesh

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          I986  1996    2005    2006
Domesticprices                                                           1 Inflation                                    c
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    6.7     6.5    7.0
ImplicitGDP deflator                       8.0     4.2     5.1    5.2
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                             9.5    9.0   10.5   10.7
Current budgetbalance                       4.1    2.2     2.1    2.2
Overall surplus/deficit                    -3.1   -4.5    -3.8   -3.3

TRADE
                                          1986   1996    2005   2006
(US$millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$mill.)          i
Total exports (fob)                        819  3.884   8,573  10,422    Ii~nnn,
  Rawjute                                  124     91      96     117
  Leather and leather products              61    241     221    269
  Manufactures                             486  3,205   7,819   9,506
Total imports (ciff                      2,364  6,947   11,870 13,301
  Food                                     356    570   1,607   1,801
  Fuel and energy                          342    274   1,602   1,795
  Capitalgoods                            1,003 1,918   1,794   2,010
Export priceindex (2000=?00)                46     85      119    122              00  01     M     03    04     05   OB

Import price index (2000=100)               48     79      134    141                   Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                   96     108      89     87

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1986   1996    2005   2006
(US$millions)                                                              Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)             c
Exports of goods and services             1,043 4,437   9,750  11,718
Importsof goods and services              2,587 7,604   13,917 15,707
Resourcebalance                          -1,544 -3,167  -4,167 -3,989

Net income                                 -126     55   -680   -786
Net currenttransfers                       586   1,821  4,290   5,347

Currentaccountbalance                    -1,084 -1,291   -557     572
Financing items (net)                     1,212    274     624   -207
Changes in net reserves                    -128  1,017     -67   -365
Memo:
 Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)            1,878   2,929  3,488
 Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)          29.9   40.9    61.8   67.2

 EXTERNAL DEET and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                           1986  1996    2004   2005
 (US$ millions)                                                            Compositionof 2005 debt (US$mill.)

 Totaldebtoutstanding and disbursed       8,062 15,341  20,129 18,935
   IBRD                                      61     46       0      0
   IDA                                    2,450  5,713   8,895  8,688

 Total debt service                         448    672     671    791
   IBRD                                       5      8       8      0
   IDA                                       28     92     208    223
 Composition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                           553    596     822    671
   Officialcreditors                        843    548     557    339
   Private creditors                         55    -30     -16     -9
   Foreigndirectinvestment(netinflows)        2     14     449    802
   Portfolio equity (net inflows)             0   -117       4      1                               C:308
 World Bank program
   Commitments                              383    168     707    500      A IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                               ~

   Disbursements                            337    279     615    547       B IDA     D Other multilateral
                                                                                       -                   F Private
                                                                                                            -
   Principal repayments                       8     54     148    153       C IMF
                                                                             ---                           G -Short-term
   Netflows                                 330    225     467    394
   Interest payments                         25     45      68     70
   Nettransfers                             305    180     399    325

 Development Economics                                                                                             5/9/07




                                                       152

                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 35246

                         TistaR.   89                                                    90                                       91                                               92



                  Panchagar                                                                                                    BANGLADESH
             PANCHAGAR                                                                             AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS
      THAKURGAON                                 LALMONIRHA
26  Thakurgaon            NILPHAMARI                                                                         AND RESPONSE PROJECT                                                                                 26
                                Nilphamari
                                                                                                                                 GEOGRAPHY
                                                          T Lalmonirhat                R.
                                                                   KURIGRAM          ra
                 DINAJPUR                      Rangpur                            put
                                                             Kurigram            ma                             DISTRICT CAPITALS                               DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                    Dinajpur                     RANGPUR                     Brah                               DIVISION CAPITALS                               DIVISION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                      Gaibandha

                                                          GAIBANDHA


                                   JOYPURHAT
                                               Joypurhat                                   SERPUR                                            Sunamganj
25               NAOGAON                                                                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                            Serpur
                                                                         Jamalpur                                 NETROKONA                                                         SYLHET
                  Naogaon                                                                                                                          SUNAMGANJ
                                                      BOGRA                                                                Netrokona                                               Sylhet
                                                            Bogra         Jamuna   JAMALPUR
                                                                                                          Mymensingh                                          SYLHET
  NOWABGANJ              RAJSHAHI                                                 R.                  MYMENSINGH
           Nowabganj

                RAJSHAHI                                                                            DHAKA                        Kishorganj                                 MOULVI BAZAR
  Ganges                                                      Serajganj
                 Rajshahi                                                                                                                                                   Moulvi
                                               Natore                                                                                                HABIGANJ
                                                                                          TANGAIL                                                                           Bazar
        R.                                                  SERAJGANJ                                                         KISHORGANJ
                                            NATORE
                                                                                          Tangail                                          R.           Habiganj



                                                      PABNA                                              GAZIPUR                     Meghna


24                                                   Pabna                                               Gazipur      NARSINGDI           BRAHMAN                                                                 24
                              KUSHTIA                                                                                  Narsingdi              BARIA                                   INDIA
                                                                                                                                             Brahmanbaria
                                 Kushtia                                   Manikanj              DHAKA
                  MEHERPUR
                    Meherpur                                                     MANIKGANJ
                                                            RAJBARI    Rajbari                  DHAKA        NARAYNGANJ
                                Chuadanga

                     CHUADANGA                            Madhumati                                             Naraynganj

                                              Jhenaidah            R.              Faridpur        PaMUNSHIGANJ                  COMILLA
                                                            Magura                                               Munshiganj
                                                                         FARIDPUR                    dma
                                    JHENAIDAH                                                              R.                        Comilla
                                                        MAGURA

      INDIA                                                                                            SARIATPUR       CHANDPUR

                                           Jessore             Narail                      MADARIPUR    Sariatpur      Chandpur
                                                                                                   Madaripur                                                                               Khagrachhari
                                              JESSORE          NARAIL
                                                                             GOPALGANJ                                                                                             KHAGRACHHARI
23                                           KHULNA                              Gopalganj                                                                Feni                                                    23

                                                                                                                         LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                              Luxmipur                    FENI

                                                                     Khulna                        BARISAL                             NOAKHALI
                                                                                                                                             Noakhali
                                             Satkhira     KHULNA                                          Barisal         Meghna
                                                                                         PEROJPUR                     Bhola
                                           SATKHIRA                  Bagerhat                      Jhalukathi                                  CHITTAGONG                                              Rangamati
                                                                                               JHALUKATHI                       R.
                                                                                           Perojpur
                                                                       BAGERHAT                                                                                                                      RANGAMATI


                                                                                              BARISAL                                                                    CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                        Patuakhali                                                                            KarnaphuliR.

                                                                                                                        BHOLA
                                                                                                        PATUAKHALI                                                               Chittagong

                                                                                                 Borguna                                                                                                 Bandarban
                                                                                             BARGUNA
22




                                                                                                                                                                                                        BANDARBAN

                                                                                                                                                                                            COX'S
          BANGLADESH                MY
                   Dhaka              ANMAR                                                                                                                                                 BAZAR

                                                                                                                                                                          Cox's Bazar
   INDIA
                                                                   Bay                                          0         25        50          75       100

                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS
                                                                    of                                                                                                                                   MYANMAR

                Bay of Bengal                     21                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                           21
                                                              Bengal                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

     SRI
    LANKA                                                                                90                                         91                                             92

                                                                                                                                                                                                            JANUARY 2007

              88                                                                       89                                                             90                                                              91                                                             92

                                          Tetulia



                                                    Panchagar                       Patgram



                                         Atwari
                                             PANCHAGAR

                                                      Boda


                           Baliadangi                                      Dimla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BANGLADESH
                                                                   Domar
                                                         Debiganj
                               THAKURGAON                                                     Hatibanda                              Bhurungamari
                                                                   NILPHAMARI
             26                                                              Jaldhake
                                      Thakurgaon                                                  Kaliganj                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26
                                                      Khansama    Nilphamari
                                                                                                                                                                         AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS
                        Ranisonkail                                                                 LALMONIRHAT
                                                                                     Kishorganj                                   Nageswari
                                                                                                                           Fulbari
                                      Pirganj                                                          Aditmari
                                                      Birganj
                     Haripur                                                                    Gangachara     Lalmonirhat    KURIGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                                            AND RESPONSE PROJECT
                                                    Kaharol             Saidpur                                                Kurigram
                                         Bochagan
                                                      DINAJPUR                      Badarganj
                                                                                              Rangpur         Kaunia     Razarhat

                                                            Chirirbandar            Taraganj    RANGPURPirgachha              Ulipur
                                                 Biral                                                                                                              DIVISIONS, DISTRICTS AND UPAZILAS
                                                                      Parbatipur
                                                         Dinajpur                                 Mithapukur                               Rahumari
                                                                                                                                  Chilmuri
                                                                                                                    Sundarganj

                                                                       Fulbari
                                                                                        Nowabganj     Pirganj                        Razibpur
                                                                                                               Sadullapur
                                                                        Birampur
                                                                                                                 GAIBANDHA
                                                                                    Hakimpur                Gaibandha
                                                                                             Ghoraghat         Palasbari                   Bakshiganj
                                                                                     Panchbibi                              Fulchari
                                                                                                                                                       Jhinaigati
                                                                            JAIPURHAT                   Gabindaganj                  Dewanganj
                                             Shapahar         Dhamoirhat    Jaipurhat                                  Shaghata                   Sribardi             Haluaghat
                                                                                                                                                             Nalitabari                                                        Tahirpur
                                                                                                                                  Islampur                                                     Durgapur  Kalmakanda                   Bishambarpur    Dwarabazar   Companiganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jaintapur
             25                                           Patnitala                              Kalai                                                                               Dhubaura
                                             Porsha   NAOGAON                            Khetal        Sibganj         Sonatola                       SHERPUR                                                                                                                 Gowainghat
                                                                                                                                                                                              NETRAKONA                                    Sunamganj                                              Kanairghat
                                                                          Badalgachhi                                                                                                                                        Jamalganj                   Chatak                                                                 25
                                                          Mohadebpur                   Akkelpur          BOGRA                        Melandaha     Sherpur                                 Purbadhala                 Dharmapasha
                   Bholahat                                                                                                                                     Nakla
                                                                                            Dupchachia           Gabtali          Madarganj                                   Phulpur                                                                                           SYLHET
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Barhatta                   SUNAMGANJ
                                                        R A J S H A H I                                                                                                MYMENSINGH                                                                                                                          Zakiganj
                                                                                                                       Shariakandi               Jamalpur                                      Netrakona                                                                           Sylhet     Beani

                             Gomastapur      Niamatpur                                                                                    JAMALPUR                                                                   Mohanganj                                   Biswanatn        Golapganj   Bazar
                                                        Manda                                                                                                               Mymensingh                                                     Dirai
                                                                 Naogaon             Adamdighi    Kahalu     Bogra                                                                                         Atpara
                                                                                                                                                               Muktagacha                                                                       S Y L H E T
               Shibganj               Nachol                                                                                                                                                Guaripur                                                Jagannathpur
                       CHAPAI                                              Raninagar                                    Dhunot                                                                                                                                                Fenchuganj
                                                                                                Nandigram                                Sarishabari                                                   Kendua    Modan                                                                                        I N D I A
                 NAWABGANJ                                                                                                                                        D H A K A                                                                                        Balaganj                  Barlekha
                                              Tanor                                                          Sherpur          Kazipur                                                                                       Khaliajuri
                                                               Bagmara              Atrai                                                           Madhupur                             Ishwarganj                                    Sulla

                       Chapai                                                                                                                                      Phulbaria
                                                                                                                                            Golpalpur                            Trisal                                                              Nabiganj            Rajnagar
                 Nawabganj                         Mohanpur                                   Singra                                                                                                         Tarail                     Ajmiriganj                                   Kulaura
                                     Godagari                                                                                                                                                   Nandail                                    HABIGANJ
                                           RAJSHAHI        Durgapur                                                 Raiganj                                                                                                  Itna
                                                                                                                            Sirajganj                                                                                                                          Moulavibazar
                                                                          Natore       NATORE                                                         Ghatail                                                                               Baniyachang
                                                   Paba                                                         SIRAJGANJ               Bhuapur                                                Hossainpur   Karimganj
                                                                  Puthia                                   Taras                                 TANGAIL                                                                                                           MOULAVIBAZAR
                                                                                             Gurudaspur                   Kamarrhandi                                                  Gafargaon     Kishorganj         Mithamoin
                                                      Rajshahi                                                     Ullapara                      Katihati                 Bhaluka
                                                                                                                                                                                                        KISHORGANJ                                                      Kamalganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Srimangal
                                                                       Bagatipara                                                                           Shakhipur                           Pakundia                 Astogram              Habiganj
                                                              Charghat                    Baraigram                             Belkuchi                                                                Katiadi   Nikli                               Bahubal
                                                                                                       Chatmohar                            Delduar                                                                                   Lakhai
                                                                                                                                                       Basail                       Sripur                      Bajitpur
                                                              Bagha     Lalpur                             Bhangura     Shahzadpur
                                                                                                                                                 Tangail
                                                                                                   PABNA                          Chauhali
                                                                                                                Faridpur                                                   GAZIPUR                       Kuliarchar          Nasirnagar           Chunarughat
                                                                                         Ishardi                                                                                            Kapasia Monohardi
                                                                                                      Atgharia                                                                                                    Bhairab                Madhappur
                                                              Daulatpur   Bheramara                                                                      Mirzapur                                                           Sarail
             24                                                                                                               Bera          Nagarpur               Kaliakoir    Gazipur             Sibpur   Belabo
                                                                                                       Pabna         Santhia
                                                                                                                                                                                                   NARSINGDI            Brahmanbaria                                                                                            24
                                                                            Mirpur                                                                                                      Kaliganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Palas      Raipur
             Note: Meherpur upazila has                                                                                          Daulatpur          Saturia
                                                                                                                  Sujanagar                                  Dhamrai                                                  BRAHMANBARIA
            been divided into two upazilas:                                               Kushtia                                              Ghior                   Savar                           Narsingdi

             Meherpur and Mujibnagar.                      Gangni                          Kumarkhali                                               Manikganj           DHAKA                                     Nabinagar
                                                                                       KUSHTIA                                          Sibalay                                        Rupganj                                   Akhaura
                                                                                                      Khoksa                              MANIKGANJ          Singair                                     Bancharampur
                                                   Meherpur                                                                                                                                   Araihazar
                                                                                                                Pangsa                                                    DHAKA                                             Kasba
                                              MEHERPUR            Alamdanga                                                                  Harirampur                              NARAYANGANJ
                                                                                                   Sailkupa        RAJBARIRajbari                                                         Sonargaon
                                                                                                                                                           Nawabganj                                            Muradnagar
                                                                                       Harinakundu                                       Faridpur                         Keraniganj      NarayanganjHomna                 Brahmanpara
                                                       Damurhuda   Chuadanga JHENAIDAH                                Baliakandi
                                                                                                             Sripur                                 Char        Dohar     Serajdikhan       Bandar
                                                                                                                                                    Bhadrassan      Srinagar                                       Debiduar
                                                      CHUADANGA                                                                                                                              Gazaria
                                                                                            Jhenaidah                      Madhukhali  FARIDPUR                                       Munshiganj Daudkandi                Burichang
                                                                                                                                                   Sadarpur
                                                                          Kotchandpur                     Magura Mohaminadpur                                         MUNSHIGANJ
                                                                                                                                      Nagarkanda                       Lohajang Tangibari                      Chandina
                                                       Jiban Nagar                         Kaliganj       MAGURA                                                                                                               Comilla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Baghaichari
                                                                                                        Salikha                Boalmari            Bhanga     Sibchar    Janjira                Matlab                 Barura
                                                               Maheshpur                                                                                                                                  Kachua
                                                                                                                                                                       SHARIYATPUR
                                                                                                                                           Muksudpur
                                                                          Chaugacha                                            Alfadanga              MADARIPURShariyatpur          Naria        CHANDPUR                  COMILLA                                          Panchari
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hajiganj                                                                       Dighinala
                                                                                                    Bagherpara                                                                                     Chandpur                      Chauddagram
                                                                                              Jessore                    Lohagara    Kasiani               Madaripur                Bhedarganj                             Laksam                                         KHAGRACHARI
                                                                                                                       Narail                        Rajoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shahrasti                           Pashuram
                                                                        Jhikargacha                                NARAIL                                                      Goshairhat          Faridganj                                                                    Khagrachari
                                                                                      K H U L N A                                      GOPALGANJ                  Kalkini       Damudya                                          Nangalkot
                                                                                                                                                                                            Haimchar
                                                                       Sarse                                                                                                                              Ramganj
             23                                                                                                                              Gopalganj                                                                                                                    Matiranga
                                                                                             Manirampur     Abhaynagar        Kalia               Kotalipara                                       Raipur          Chatkhil      Senbag    Feni                                                                                 23
                                                                                          JESSORE                                                                           Muladi
                                                                                                                                           Tungipara      Agailjhara                                                                              Chhagalnaiya
                                                                                                                                                                                        Hizla      LAKSMIPUR                                                          Ramgar       Mohaichar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Laigadu
                                                                                                              Phultala     Terakhada                                Gaurnadi                                                           Daganbhuiya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Begumganj             FENI
                                                                           Kalaroa            Keshabpur            Daulatpur                                Ujirpur        BARISAL                      Laksmipur
                                                                                                                                  Mollahat                                                                                                  Sonagazi                     Manikchari   Nannerchari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                                                                                                                 Mehendiganj
                                                                                                          Dumuria           Khulna                       Banaripara                                                      Noakhali
                                                                                                                             Rupsa                                    Babuganj
                                                                          Satkhira             Tala                            FakirhatChitaimari Nazirpur                                                          NOAKHALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Companiganj      Mirsharai                Laksmichari                 Barkal

                                                                                                                 Batiaghata                            Sarupkati                                                                                                    Fatikchari
                                                                                                                                 Bagerhat        PIROJPURJhalakati              Barisal      Bhola
                                                                                                                                            Kachua                                                                                                                                                           Jurachari
                                                                                                                                                                          Nalchiti                                                                        CHITTAGONG               Kawkhali    Rangamati

                                                                          Debhata                                           BAGERHAT                 Kawkhali
                      I N D I A                                                                                                                                JHALAKATI                          Daulatkhan Ramgati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sitakunda
                                                                                           Asasuni  Paikgacha Dacope          Rampal                        Rajapur
                                                                                                                                              Pirojpur                                                                                                                                            RANGAMATI
                                                                                    SATKHIRA                                                                             Bakerganj                                                                                            Rauzan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hathazari               Kaptai
                                                                                                                                     Morelganj     Bhandaria                                   Burhanuddin                                       Sandwip                            Rangunia
                                                                                    Kaliganj                                                                     Betagi                                    Tajumuddin
                                                                                                         KHULNA             Mongla                       Kathalia                      Bauphal      BHOLA
                                                                                                                                                                  Mirzaganj                                                Hatiya                                                Boalkhali       Rajasthali    Belaichari
                                                                                                         Koyra                                                                Patuakhali
                                                                                       Shyamnagar                                Sarankhola                                                                                                                Chittagong
                                                                                                                                             Mathbaria  Bamna   B A R I S A LLalmohan                                                                                             Patia

                                                                                                                                                                                       Dashmina               Monpura                                                                                Rowangachari


                   This map was produced by                                                                                                            BORGUNA                                                                                                             Anwara   Chandanais
                                                                                                                                                                                               Char Fasson
                   the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                 Galachipa
                                                                                                                                                        Borguna                                                                                                                                  Bandarbon
                   World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                       Amtali                                                                                                           Satkania    BANDARBON
                   colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                 Patharghata                                                                                                                                                     Ruma
             22    any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lohagara
                   on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Banskhali                                        22
                   the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                         PATUAKHALI
                   Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                    Kalapara
                   legal status of any territory,
                   or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                Bay of Bengal                              Kutubdia                                          Thanchi
                   a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chakaria     Lama
                   boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Alikadam


            NEPAL                                   BHUTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                              Moheshkhali

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COX'S BAZAR          Nakhyangchari


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ramu
                                                           I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cox's Bazar


                                                                                                                                                                                                               UPAZILA HEADQUARTERS

                                BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                     DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                                                      Ukhia                      MY
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DIVISION HEADQUARTERS
                                              DHAKA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
            I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                          UPAZILA BOUNDARIES                                                                                               21


                                                                                                                 0            20           40                60 Kilometers                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Teknaf

                                                                             MY                                                                                                                                DIVISION BOUNDARIES

JANUAR                                                                         ANMAR                             0                    20                  40 Miles                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                            IBRD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35247
      Y                         Bay of Bengal
       2007
                                                                                                                                                   90                                                                 91                                                              92

