CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1178 MA
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE
STATES OF MALAYA
DATED DECEMBER 17, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1178 MA
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE
STATES OF MALAYA
DATED DECEMBER 17, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE STATES OF MALAYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
.        meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Malaysian Dollars" and "M$" mean dollars in the currency of the
Guarantor;
(b)   "1958 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, No. 210 MA,
dated September 22, 1958, between the Bank and the Central Electricity Boald
of the Federation of Malaya;
(c)   "1963 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, No. 350 MA,
dated August 7, 1963, between the Bank and the Central Electricity Board of
the Federation of Malaya;
(d)   "1966 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, No. 458 MA,
dated July 26, 1966, between the Bank and the Borrower;
(e)   "1969 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, No. 579 MA,
dated January 9, 1969, between the Bank and the Borrower;
(f)   "1970 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, No. 700 MA,
dated July 16, 1970, between the Bank and the Borrower; and


﻿4
(g) "1974 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, No. 1031 MA,
dated July 25, 1974, between the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
90


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of bidding
documents and engineering designs for the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision of the Project, the
Borrower shall appoint a senior resident engineer employed by the consultants
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out


﻿6
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to :-cquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall, upon request, furnish to
the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its business and
operations and maintain its financial position in accordance with sound public
utility practice under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank for its comments
the names and qualifications of, and all other relevant information concerning,
any persons the Borrower proposes to appoint as General Manager (or anyone
charged with the duties of chief executive officer) and Controller (or anyone
charged with the duties of chief financial officer).
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public utility
practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and property, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering standards; shall, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, take all practical steps which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business and shall at all times operate
and maintain its plants, equipment and properties in accordance with sound public
utility practice.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditcrs, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security for
any debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property: or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank prior to
making any changes in its tariffs.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
so exercise and perform its functions that the tariffs it prescribes will provide
sufficient revenues to yield an annual return which shall be no less than eight
per cent (8%). For the purposes of this Section:


﻿8
(a)   The annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each fiscal
year by relating net income for that year to the average of the net value of fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of that year;
(b) The term "net income" means all electric power revenue plus revenues
from other sources, less all operating expenses;
(c)   The term   "operating expenses" includes: direct costs of operation;
administrative, overhead and adequate maintenance expenses; straight-line
depreciation based on the useful life of major categories of assets; taxes (if any);
but does not include interest and other charges on debt; and
(d)   The term   "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross
value of the fixed assets less the accumulated depreciation, Government
contributions for rural electrification and consumers' contributions, all determined
in accordance with methods of valuation and revaluation acceptable to the Bank
and the Borrower.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any long-term indebtedness unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior
to such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall not be less than 1.3
times the maximum debt service requirements on all long-term indebtedness
(including the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   The term   "long-term indebtedness" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date on which the contract
or loan agreement providing for such debt is entered into;
(c)   The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources adjusted
to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve consecutive months to which such
revenues related, less operating and administrative expenses, including provision for
taxes, if any, but before provision for depreciation, interest and other charges on
debt, and amortization; and
(d)   Whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the Guarantor
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the Borrower,


﻿9
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not permit its short-term debt to exceed thirty million Malaysian dollars
(M$30,000,000) at any one time outstanding. If, due to unforeseen circumstances,
such debt should exceed the indicated amount, the Borrower shall promptly inform
the Bank and take appropriate measures to reduce that debt as quickly as possible.
For the purposes of this Section "short-term debt" means debt for money
borrowed, including bank overdrafts, maturing on demand or by its terms within
12 months after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not invest in industries other than for the generation, transmission, distribution
and sale of electricity an amount exceeding an aggregate of twenty five million
Malaysian dollars (M$25,000,000), whether in the form of equity, loans or
otherwise.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   Any loan or credit to the Borrower shall have become due and payable
prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the terms thereof, or any security
constituted thereunder shall have become enforceable.
(b)   Any amendment of the Electricity Act, 1949, as revised in 1973 and
as amended, which in the judgment of the Bank materially affects the Borrower s
powers, duties, functions or responsibilities, shall have become effective without
the agreement of the Bank.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
any events specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Amendment of 1958 Loan Agreement, 1963 Loan Agreement,
1966 Loan Agreement, 1969 Loan Agreement,
1970 Loan Agreement and 1974 Loan Agreement
Section 7.01. For the purposes of the 1958 Loan Agreement:
(a)   Section 5.09 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
(b)   Section 5.11 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of the 1963 Loan Agreement:
(a)   Section 5.11 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
(b)   Section 5.13 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of the 1966 Loan Agreement:
(a)   Section 5.11 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
(b)   Section 5.13 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. For the purposes of the 1969 Loan Agreement:
(a)   Section 5.13 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.
(b)   Section 5.14 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.07 of this Agreement.
Section 7.05. For the purposes of the 1970 Loan Agreement:
(a)   Section 5.05 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.


﻿11
(b)  Section 5.06 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the piovisions of Section 5.07 of this Agreement.
Section 7.06. For the purposes of the 1974 Loan Agreement:
(a)  Section 5.04 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.04 of this Agreement.
(b)  Section 5.06 is amended by the deletion of the provisions thereof and
the substitution therefor of the provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date March 18, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
National Electricity Board of the
States of Malaya
P. 0. Box 1003
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia


﻿12
Cable address:
TRANG
Kuala Lumpur
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE
STATES OF MALAYA
By /s / M. Khir Johari
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil work for                  4,700,000          100% of foreign
Prai extension                                    expenditures
(2)  Plant and equip-               18,200,000
ment for Prai
extension
(a)   directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
(b)  imported but                                 70%
procured
locally
(c)   manufactured                                100% of local ex-
locally                                     penditures (ex-
factory)
(3)  Transmission and                1,800,000
distribution equip-
ment and materials
(a)   directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
(b)  imported but                                 70%
procured
locally


﻿14
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Exvenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c)   manufactured                                100% of local ex-
locally                                     penditures (ex-
factory)
(4)  Consulting                      1,800,000          100% of foreign
Services                                          expenditures
(5)  Unallocated                     8,500,000
TOTAL        35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of a country other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿15
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will consist of:
A,    Construction of the final stage extension of the Prai Thermal Power Station
comprising three units of 120 MW each;
B.    Extension of the transmission and distribution system; and
C.    Provision of consulting services for the operations of the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
June 1, 1981                                             600,000
December 1, 1981                                         625,000
June 1, 1982                                             650,000
December 1, 1982                                         680,000
June 1, 1983                                             705,000
December 1, 1983                                         735,000
June 1, 1984                                              770,000
December 1, 1984                                          800,000
June 1, 1985                                             835,000
December 1, 1985                                         870,000
June 1, 1986                                             905,000
December 1, 1986                                          945,000
June 1, 1987                                             985,000
December 1, 1987                                        1,030,000
June 1, 1988                                            1,070,000
December 1, 1988                                        1,115,000
June 1, 1989                                            1,165,000
December 1, 1989                                        1,215,000
June 1, 1990                                            1,265,000
December 1, 1990                                        1,320,000
June 1, 1991                                            1,375,000
December 1, 1991                                        1,435,000
June 1, 1992                                            1,495,000
December 1, 1992                                        1,560,000
June 1, 1993                                            1,625,000
December 1, 1993                                        1,695,000
June 1, 1994                                            1,765,000
December 1, 1994                                        1,840,000
June 1, 1995                                            1,920,000
December 1, 1995                                        2,005,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿18
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                             1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          7-1/2%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                             8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
Goods, works and services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Malaysia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Malaysia.


﻿20
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works and for equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
prepared with the assistance of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a) of
this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such


﻿21
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


