Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
GRANT NUMBER H113 LSO 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV and AIDS Capacity Building and Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 5 , 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H113 LSO 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 5 , 2004, between  KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Association has received on May 11, 2004 from the Recipient a 
“National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and the National AIDS Policy” dated October 2000, 
containing details of the design and content of the Recipient’s national multi-sectoral 
strategy to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic (the said document being hereinafter referred to 
as the “Program”) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program;  
(C) 
the Recipient has received from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria (the Global Fund) a commitment in an amount of 
 
US$34 million to assist in financing part of the Program, of which a grant in the amount 
of US$12.5 million (the Global Fund Grant) has been granted to the Recipient on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement entered into between the Recipient and the 
Global Fund dated October 10, 2003 (the Global Fund Grant Agreement); and 
(D) 
the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome;  
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“GFCT” means the Global Fund Coordination Team established within 
the MFDP, and further referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“HIV” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus; 
(e) 
“HIV/AIDS Directorate” means the HIV/AIDS Directorate established 
within the MOHSW, and further referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“HIV/AIDS Sub-projects” means HIV/AIDS sub-projects financed 
through the Global Fund Grant, and further referred to in Schedule 6 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“LAPCA” means the Lesotho AIDS Programme Coordinating Authority 
established pursuant to the provisions of Memorandum No. C3 (2000/5) 180 of the 
Recipient, dated November 6, 2000 and further referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“MFDP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Development 
Planning; 
(i) 
“MOHSW” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Social 
Welfare; 
(j) 
“NDSO” means the National Drugs and Supplies Organization, 
established and operating pursuant to Circular Notice No. 1 dated January 20, 1981 of the 
Recipient; 
(k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated  
April 30, 2004, covering the initial 18 month-period (or longer) of Project implementation, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month-period (or longer) of 
Project implementation; 
(l) 
“PAU” means the Project Accounting Unit established within MOHSW 
and further referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“PU” means the Procurement Unit established within MOHSW and 
further referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 3,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, appropriate protection 
against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of  
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
Page  5
-
4
-
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
2.04.  Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on 
 
April 1, and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such date. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as the said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the future achievement of the operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on the said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements according to financial and accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year (or other period determined 
by the Association) audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period determined by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period determined by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts, and the report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements and the audit 
Page  7
-
6
-
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least two years after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statement of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period 
determined by the Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section. 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by the said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by the said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by the said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
Page  8
-
7
-
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or the Project or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
(b) 
Memorando No. C3 (2000/5) 180, dated November 6, 2000 of the 
Recipient, establishing LAPCA, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the implementation of the 
Project; and 
(c) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Global Fund 
Grant made to the Recipient for the financing of its HIV and AIDS programs shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
Global Fund Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as condition to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, 
that the Recipient has appointed the Head of LAPCA in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
P.O. Box 395 
Maseru, 100 
Lesotho 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
     Facsimile: 
 
FINMIN      266 
22 
310 
157 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI)   
(202) 477 6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
By /s/ 
Molelekeng 
Rapolaki 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   
 
By        /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
 
350,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90% 
of  local expenditures 
(2) 
Consultants’ services, 
including audit and 
training 
 
2,700,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90% 
of local expenditures 
100% for training 
expenditures 
(3) 
 
Goods 
 
210,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and  
90% of local 
expenditures 
(4) 
Operating costs 
             70,000 
90% 
(5) Unallocated 
170,000 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 3,500,000 
========= 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:  
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;  
(c) 
“training expenditures” means expenditures incurred on scholarships, 
purchase of training materials, rental of training facilities, health insurance for travel 
abroad, per diem and travel costs related to the Project; and 
(d) 
“operating costs” means expenditures incurred on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office consumables (such as 
communication expenses, tickets and subsistence costs for travel related to the Project, 
office rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles and 
equipment, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 100,000  may be made on account of payments made for expenditures in respect of 
Category (2) before that date but after April 30, 2004.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; and (f) operation costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the 
Recipient’s capacity to use 
effectively the resources provided through the Global Fund Grant to support the 
implementation of HIV and AIDS programs within the Recipient’s territory.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Strengthening MFDP’s Capacity for Overall Management of External 
Grant Funding for HIV and AIDS Programs
1. 
Enhancing MFDP’s capacity to enable it to discharge adequately fiduciary 
responsibilities vested in MFDP regarding the use of external resources granted to the 
Recipient to support implementation of HIV and AIDS programs within the Recipient’s 
territory.   
2. 
Carrying out training activities, including workshops and seminars aimed at 
enhancing technical expertise within MFDP for management of external financial 
resources granted to support the implementation of HIV and AIDS programs in the 
Recipient’s territory. 
3. 
Technical advisory services, equipment, acquisition of computers and related 
software, materials and supplies for the carrying out of the activities referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 2 above. 
Part B
:
Strengthening MOHSW’s Capacity for Adequate Implementation of  
HIV and AIDS Programs 
1. 
Acquisition of technical advisory services to be deployed within the following 
MOHSW’s units: (a) the HIV/AIDS Directorate; (b) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit; 
(c) the Procurement Unit; and (d) the Project Accounting Unit.  
2. 
Enhancing the capacity of MOHSW to: (a) design and implement effective 
strategies aimed at changing behavior related to HIV and AIDS; (b) oversee the 
performance and security of drug inventory management systems within the Recipient’s 
territory; and (c) establish efficient logistics systems for adequate provision of laboratory 
services within the Recipient’s territory. 
Page  14
-
13
-
3
(a) 
Enhancing NDSO’s capacity to procure and distribute adequately and 
efficiently all required drugs and other relevant goods needed to sustain performance in 
the health sector; and (b) expansion of NDSO’s warehousing facilities.   
4. 
Acquisition of equipment, computers and related software, materials and supplies 
for the carrying out of the activities referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above. 
Part C
:
Strengthening LAPCA’s Capacity for Adequate Coordination, 
Monitoring and Evaluation of  National HIV and AIDS Programs
Technical advisory services required to: 
1. 
strengthen LAPCA’s capacity to evaluate HIV and AIDS programs submitted 
through LAPCA for financial support to be provided by the Recipient;  
2. 
strengthen capacity for District AIDS Task Forces to monitor implementation of 
HIV and AIDS activities supported with external funding and being implemented by civil 
society organizations; 
3. 
increase capacity to: (a) monitor and evaluate HIV and AIDS activities being 
implemented at the district and sub-district levels and at the community level; and  
(b) design and implement effective strategies aimed at changing behavior related to HIV 
and AIDS; and 
4. 
support technical ministries and other relevant public sector agencies to develop 
and implement activities aimed at combating the spread of HIV and AIDS within the 
Recipient’s territory.  
Part D
:
Strengthening Involvement of Civil Society and Private Sector Entities in 
Combating the Spread of HIV and AIDS.
1. 
Formulation and implementation of programs designed to spur the involvement 
of civil society organizations and private sector entities established within the Recipient’s 
territory in the fight against the spread of HIV and AIDS in an adequate and sustainable 
manner. 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
Establishment of an adequate coordination mechanism to monitor 
implementation of the programs referred to in paragraph 1 above. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Recipient employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the following additional procedures: 
Domestic Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited 
International 
Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of limited international bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive 
bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
3. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which meet the requirements for direct 
contracting referred to in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may, 
with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the said paragraphs. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of quality and cost in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines and the following provision:  for 
purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments, which meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of quality in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments, which meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a fixed budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments, which meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under 
Page  18
-
17
-
contracts awarded on the basis of lowest cost in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of the 
said paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods, and 
services (other than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost $150,000 and for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of 
international competitive bidding, limited international bidding or national competitive 
bidding.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting:  (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract for its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
Page  19
-
18
-
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (h)  
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s approval 
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individual Consultants
.
(a) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:  (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval;  (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of  
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis:  (i) the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval;  
(ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
Page  20
-
19
-
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I.  
General
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule 4. To this end, the Recipient shall:  
1. 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
2. 
appoint and thereafter maintain throughout the duration of the Project, the Head 
of LAPCA with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; 
3. 
ensure that LAPCA, GFCT, the HIV/AIDS Directorate, the PAU, and the PU are: 
(a) entrusted with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (b) 
endowed with staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and experience shall be at 
all times satisfactory to the Association; and 
4. 
produce the reports referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
and disseminate the same as warranted for the years 2007 and 2008. 
II. Midterm 
Review
5. 
The Recipient shall: (a) no later than June 30, 2006, or such other date as the 
Recipient and the Association shall agree upon, carry out with the Association, a midterm 
review (the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things, an 
assessment of: (i) work programs prepared as of the date of the Midterm Review and the 
progress made in carrying out the said programs, (ii) training provided under the Project, 
(iii) procurement under the Project, (iv) the extent to which actions described in the 
agreed indicators have been carried out, and (v) plans made or proposed for updating the 
said indicators. 
 
(b) 
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project in preparation 
of the said Midterm Review. 
Page  22
-
21
-
(c) 
Following such Midterm Review, the Recipient shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to 
remedy any shortcomings noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such 
other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Recipient and the Association. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  24
-
23
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by the said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  25
-
24
-
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used to 
monitor the Project implementation are as follows: 
1. 
80% of the Global Fund grant has  been disbursed by the end of the Project. 
2. 
30% of the Global Fund grant has been disbursed through civil society 
organizations. 
3. 
50% of HIV/AIDS sub-projects financed through the Global Fund Grant, have 
been implemented in a satisfactory manner. 
4. 
Annual reports on all key HIV and AIDS program indicators are produced and 
disseminated. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 7 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, and Article VII, are deleted in 
their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges  are Payable 
(i) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
Page  28
-
27
-
(ii) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”. 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
(b)  The phrase “any development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (c) (i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.” 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
