                                              Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 29046




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                        PROPOSEDGRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNTOF SDR3.5 MILLION
                                   (US$5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                     KINGDOMOF LESOTHO

                                                FORA

      HIV AND AIDS CAPACITY BUILDINGAND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                             May24,2004




HumanDevelopment1
CountryDepartment 1
Africa RegionalOffice


This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Itscontents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout WorldBankauthorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective 30 April 2004)


                         CurrencyUnit = SDR
                              0.689032 = US$1
                           1.45133 US$ = SDR I

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB   African Development Bank
AG     Auditor General
AIDS   Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
APL    Adaptable Program Loan
ARVs   Anti-Retroviral Drugs
BCC    Behavior Change Communications
CBOs   Community BasedOrganization
CCM    Country Coordinating Mechanism
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CHAL   Christian Health Association o fLesotho
DATFs  District HIV/AIDSTask Forces
DCI    Development Cooperation Ireland
DflD   Department for International Development
DHS    Demographic and Health Survey
ESAMI  Eastern and SouthernAfrican Management Institute
FBOs   FaithBased Organizations
FMRs   FinancialMonitoring Reports
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GFATM  Global Fundto FightAIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GOL    Government o fLesotho
HIV    Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HPSU   Health Planning and Statistics Unit
HSRP   Health Sector Reform Project
IDA    International Development Association
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
LAPCA  Lesotho AIDS Program Coordinating Authority
LFA    Local FundAgent
LIL    Learningand InnovationLoans
MAPS   Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
M&E    Monitoringand Evaluation
MDGs   MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MFDP   Ministryo fFinance and Development Planning
MOHSW  Ministry o fHealthand Social Welfare
NAC    National AIDS Commission
NDSO   National Drugs and Supplies Organization

                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




  NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
  PAU      Project and Accounting Unit
  PM       Procurement Manager
  PU       Procurement Unit
  RSA      Republic o f South Africa
  SADC     Southern African Development Community
  TA       Technical Assistance
  TB       Tuberculosis
  TAL      Technical Assistance Loan
  UNAIDS   UnitedNations AIDS Program
  U N .    UnitedNations
  UNDP     UnitedNations Development Program
  UNICEF   UnitedNations International Fundfor Children
  USAID    UnitedStates Agency for International Development
  VCT      Voluntary Counseling and Testing
  WHO      World HealthOrganization


                             Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                   Acting Country Director:      PamelaCox
                            Sector Manager:      DzingaiMutumbuka
                         Task Team Leader:       Julie McLaughlin




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients onlyin
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                              LESOTHO
             HIVandAIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                            Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             ........................................................................       6
 1.   Country and sector issues            ..........................................................................................................         6
 2.   Rationale for Bank involvement                  ................................................................................................        7
 3.   Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes                                 ..........................................................      7

B
.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       ........................................................................................................         8
 1.   Lending instrument         ....................................................................................................................         8
 2.   Project development objective and key indicators                              ....................................................................       8
 3.   Project components          ...................................................................................................................          8
 4.   Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection...................................................................                                     11

C. IMPLEMENTATION                   ...............................................................................................................           11
 1.   Partnership arrangements              ........................................................................................................          11
 2.   Institutionaland implementation arrangements......................................................................                                      12
 3.   Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomeshesults ......................................................................                                     12
 4.   Sustainability ...........................................................................................................................              13
 5.   Critical risks and possible controversial aspects                          .....................................................................        13
 6.   Loadcredit conditions and covenants                       .....................................................................................         14

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                          ........................................................................................................          15
 1.   Economic and financial analyses                   ............................................................................................          15
 2.   Technical  .................................................................................................................................            15
 3.   Fiduciary  ..................................................................................................................................           15
 4.   Social.......................................................................................................................................           16
 5.   Environment      ............................................................................................................................           17
 6.   Safeguardpolicies         ...................................................................................................................           17
 7.   Policy Exceptions and Readiness                   ............................................................................................          17

Annex 1:Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                        ................................................................        18

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                              ........................  21

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring                               ...............................................................................         22

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription            .............................................................................................     28

Annex 5: ProjectCosts......................................................................................................................      30

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 ........................................................................................     31

Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements                                            ............................................ 33

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements               .............................................................................................     38

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  ....................................................................................    44

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ...................................................................................................      46

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                      ............................................................................    47

Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile               ........................................................................................     48

Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits                  .....................................................................................     49

Annex 14: Country at a Glance      ........................................................................................................      50

                                      LESOTHO

   HIV AND AIDS CAPACITY BUILDINGAND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                       AFRICA

                                       AFTH1

Date: May 24,2004                          TeamLeader: Julie McLaughlin
Country Director: PamelaCox                Sectors: Health(55%);0ther social services
Sector Mangermirector: DzingaiB.           (45%)
Mutumbuka                                  Themes: HIV/AIDS(P);Population and
                                           reproductive health(S)
Project ID: PO87843                        Environmental screening category: Not
                                           Required
LendingInstrument: Technical Assistance    Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00




Borrower:
Government of Kingdom of Lesotho
Lesotho

ResponsibleAgency:
MinistryofFinanceandDevelopmentPlanning
P.0.B 395
Maseru
Lesotho
Tel: (266) 22323703 Fax: (266) 22310157
mkhethisa@,finance.gov.ls
Lesotho HIV/AIDSProgramme Coordinating Authority
P.O. Box 527
Maseru
Lesotho
Tel: 266-22-326794 Fax: 266-22-327210

Ministry ofHealth& Social Welfare
P.O. Box 514
Maseru
Lesotho
Tel: 266-22-313601 Fax: 266-22-323010



F Y              5        h         7         8        9          n      n        n       n
4nnual            osd       0.7%     1.od      1s d     1*2%       o.od   o.od      o.od   O.O(
Zumulative  1     os(       1.24     2.2j      3.74     5.oq       5.04   5.04      5.04   5.O(
Project implementation period: Start July 30,2004 End: June 30,2008
Expected effectivenessdate: July 30,2004
Expectedclosing date: December31,2008
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PADA.3                                                                      [          No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                     [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                   ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the project include any criticalrisks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                     [XIYes [ ]No
Does the project meetthe Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                     [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
This technical assistance project aims to increasethe capacity of government andnon-
governmental institutions responsible for the national response to HIV/AIDSto effectively
implementandassess the impact of funds receivedfor HIV/AIDS.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component I:Support to the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning (MOFDP).

  Component 11: Support to the Ministryo fHealthand Social Welfare (MOHSW).

  Component 111: Support to Secretariat ofthe National AIDS Program.

  Component IV: Support for civil society andprivate sector capacity development.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
No safeguardpolicies are triggered.

Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
No conditions.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
Appoint a Head (Le., the Chief Executive) for LAPCA

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
   1. Remaineligible for disbursements from the GFATM.

  2. Maintain the Head o fLAPCA (or its replacement as Secretariat to the NAC).

  3. Ensurethat LAPCA, the Global FundCoordinationTeam, the HIV/AIDS Directorate, the
      PAU, andthe MOHSW Procurement Unitare (i)         assigned functions andresponsibilities,
      and (ii)staffed at a level required to implement the project.

  4. Maintain policies andprocedures adequateto enable itto monitor and evaluate the key
      indicators.

  5. The Government will cause the project to have its records, accounts and financial
      statements audited eachyear for boththe Special Account and Statements o f
      Expenditures, commencing with the accounts for the year ending March2005.

  6. The PAUwill submit quarterly FinancialManagementReports not later than 45 days
      after the end o f each quarter.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues
Lesotho is among the countries worst affected by the HIV/AIDSepidemic. With a
populationo f2.2 million and 330,000 o f its adults estimated to be infected with HIV, the
country i s facing an unprecedentednational disaster, The first AIDS case was reported in
Lesotho in 1986, and since then the adult HIV prevalence has risen to 30 percent (UNAIDS,
2002). An estimated 27,000 children aged 0-14 years were infected withthe HIV virus by
2002. The number o f single and dual orphans inLesotho has risento its highest level ever at
around 90,000 children ages 0-15 years and will likely remainhigh or increaseinthe short
term, to a large extent due to the HIV/AIDSepidemic. The key drivers o fthe epidemic inthe
country include the social vulnerability o fyoung people and women, migrant workers
returningfrom South African mines, and a continued culture of silence. Compared to
neighboring countries SouthAfrica, Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland who all have
similarly highHIV/AIDSprevalence, Lesotho has limitednational financial and human
resourcesto tackle effectively the epidemic, which threatensto undermineits development.

In2000, the Government adoptedaNationalHIV/AIDSStrategic Planandthe National
AIDS Policy Framework. These are basedon a multi-sector approachto the fight against
HIV andAIDS, and embracedengagementwith civil society and communities inthe fight
against the epidemic. The Lesotho AIDS Program Coordinating Authority (LAPCA) was
established in2001with a mandateto coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation o f
the national response. Unfortunately, LAPCA's ability to fulfill its mandatehas beenlimited
by many factors, includingthe lack ofautonomy, its inability to recruit a full complement of
staff and the dismissal of its Executive Director that has left it leaderless for more than a year.
Although the HIV/AIDSUnito fthe Ministry o fHealthand Social Welfare (MOHSW) has
been engaged inefforts to addressHIV and AIDS since the late 1980s, as a unit under the
Division o fDiseaseControl, it has not has had the status and leadership required to assume
the level o fresponsibility and effectively leadthe sector's response.

InJuly 2003, Lesotho hostedan extraordinary meeting of SADC on HIV/AIDS, and recent
approval by the Cabinet o fa document titled Scaling up the fight against the HIV/AIDS
                                                      "
epidemic inLesotho" reflects increasedhigh-level attention needs to be followed up by
concrete action. The Cabinet's approval o fthe document was accompanied by a decision to
create a NationalAIDS Commission that will oversee the national responseto HIV/AIDS in
Lesotho. Political leaders are now giving greater attention to the HIV/AIDScrisis. All
public sector permanent secretaries agreedto undergo tests for HIV/AIDS publicly, and the
Prime Ministerhimselfwas tested inpublic inMarch 2004. What is now required is concrete
action to make available the prevention, care and impact mitigation servicesto the larger
Basotho population.

Meanwhile, in2002, with support from its UNpartners, the Lesotho Country Coordinating
Mechanism (CCM)' submitteda successfulproposal to the GlobalFunds to FightAIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), for a U S $34 million grant ($29 million for HIV/AIDS
and $5 million for tuberculosis) to scale up its fight against HIV/AIDSand TB over the next

'The GFATM will only receive proposalsfrom aCCM, which includes "representatives from boththe public
and private sectors, including governments, multilateral or bilateral agencies, non-governmental organizations,
academicinstitutions, private businessesand people living with the diseases."


                                                        6

five years. The PrincipalRecipientofthe GFATMresources isthe Ministryo fFinanceand
the two sub-recipientsare LAPCA andthe MOHSW. Althoughthe grant was signed in
October2003, implementationhas only recentlycommenced, andthe GFATMstill lacksa
satisfactoryassessment by itsLocalFundAgent ofLesotho's capacityto meet fiduciary
requirements. Experienceover the pastthree years, suggeststhat institutionalcapacityof
boththe recipientsand implementingagencies (withinandoutsidegovernment) requires
targetedsupport anddevelopment inorder to receive, manage, disburse andaccount for
finds, implementeffectiveinterventions,andmonitorthe implementationandresultso fthe
GFATM. Such support isneitherprovidedbythe GFATMnor filly availablefrom the few
development assistancepartners operatinginLesotho.

2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement
The GFATMoperates as a financinginstrumentanddoes notprovidethe kindofsupervision
or implementationsupporttypicallyprovidedbythe Bankor a bilateraldonor. Althoughthe
GFATMproposalcouldhave encompassedcapacityandtechnicalassistance, neitherthe
authors northe GFATMappraisedthe capacityofthe institutionsto implementthe extensive
program. The financingfrom the GFATMfocuses almost exclusivelyon financing
HIV/AIDS activities. The challengefacingLesothois howto effectivelyimplementa large
amount ofexternalfinancing givenlimitedexperienceto date andnationalinstitutions,which
are still beingdefined. The proposedprojectwill providetechnicaland implementation
support, complementary to otherpartnersthat are supportingthe Lesothonationalresponseto
HIV/AIDS. It is clear that additionalfinancialresourcesfor implementationare notwhat is
requiredat this pointintime, however targeted implementationsupport couldfacilitate
implementationofthe GFATMresourcesas well as leverageadditionalexternalfinancing.

The Bankhas gainedmoreexperiencethan any other agency inimplementationofnational
multi-sectorHIV/AIDSprograms inAfrica (throughthe MAPs). The Bank is also familiar
with the challengesofaddressingHIV andAIDS inLesotho. The previousSecond
Population, HealthandNutritionProjectsupportedthe establishment ofthe HIV/AIDSUnit
within the MOHSW. Underthe existingHealthSectorReformProject(P053200), the Bank
has beenprovidingsupport for LAPCAand financinggrants to NGOs for HIV/AIDS
projects. The GFATMproposalbuilt uponthe designo fthe Bankprojectcomponent and is
similarto the designofmany MAPs inthe region. As partofprojectpreparation,the Bank
team hasbroughtregionalexamples and experience to the table andassistedthe government
inclarifyingimplementationarrangements andresponsibilitiesunderthe GFATMprogram.
The type ofsupport whichwould be providedboththoughthe proposedproject,andthrough
Bank supervisionrespondsto a criticalgap inimplementationcapacity.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes
The projectdirectlysupports the GovernmentofLesotho's prioritiesas set out inthe 2001
Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper,the Vision2020 andthe MDGs. The last Lesotho Country
Assistance Strategy(CAS) for Lesothowas discussedbythe ExecutiveDirectorsin 1998,anddid
notanticipate the proposedproject. Giventhe GlobalFundaward, additionalfinancingfromIDA
was notoriginallyconsidered. However, the Bank's recognitionofthe devastating impact of
HIV/AIDSinLesotho, combinedwith implementationconstraints faced inutilizingthe Global
Fundaward, resultedina decisioninNovember2003 to rapidlypreparethe proposedprojectin
order to avertthe riskthat the GlobalFundcouldsuspend its support.




                                             7

The Bank's CAS for 2004-2006-currently being developed-hastwo overarchingobjectives; to
achieve sustainablepoverty reduction andto improvethe country's competitivenessinorder to
support employmentcreation. A basic principle behindthe design ofthe Bank's strategy is that
there are sufficient resourcesthat would be made availableto Lesothoby donor partnersand
through direct investmentsifsoundpolicies and with improved management are inplace. The
achievemento fthe CAS objectives is dependent on success o fmulti-sector efforts to prevent
and respondto the HIV/AIDSepidemic. The proposedproject fits well with the underlying
principle o fthe CAS inthat it will focus on buildingcapacity, and will contribute to more
effective mobilization o fresources for a multi-sector responseto the epidemic.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument
Theproposed lendinginstrument is atechnical assistancegrant with a medium-termfocus (4
years) to finance services, training, and goods in support o f implementation o fHIV/AIDS
interventions usingGFATMfinancial resources. The focus will be on institutional capacity
development and technical support for implementation. Implementation capacity inthe
context o fthis project is definedto encompassbroader institutionalcapacity interms o f
havingadequate systems andprocedures, as well as sufficient competent and committed
human and physical resourcesto implementproposed activities.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjective and key indicators
Thistechnical assistanceproiect aims to increasethe capacity o f government andnon-
governmental institutions responsible for the national responseto HIV and AIDS to utilize
and assessthe impact o f funds received for HIV/AIDS.

LAPCA (or its successor-as it is expected that LAPCA will be replaced by -or transformed
into -the new Secretariatfor the National AIDS Commission)will be enabled to coordinate,
monitor and evaluate the national responseto HIV/AIDSand fulfill its role as sub-recipient
o f GFATMresourcesfor public sector and civil society implementation. The MOHSW will
be better able to provide access to quality care andtreatment to those infected by HIV and
AIDS and hlfillits role as sub-recipient ofthe GFATMresources. Other government
agenciesand civil society institutions will be more effectively engaged inpreventing the
transmission o fHIV, caring for individuals and families affected by HIV and AIDS, and
mitigating the impact o fAIDS on the country.

Key Indicators o f success will be:
1, Percento fthe GFATMgrant disbursedby the end ofthe Project.
2. Percent o f the GFATMgrant disbursed through civil society organizations.
3. Percent o fHIV and AIDS sub-projects have been implemented ina satisfactory manner.
4. That Annual Reports on all key HIV and AIDS program indicators are produced and
    disseminated.

3. Projectcomponents
The objective o fthe national HIV/AIDSprogram inLesotho is to control the spreadof
HIV/AIDSand mitigate its impact on vulnerable groups, individuals, families, communities
and the nation as whole. The GFATMsupport to Lesotho i s aimed at supporting the scaling
up o finterventions for prevention, care, treatment and impact mitigation, includingthe
expansion o ftraining and education, provision o fbasic care to those infected and affected by


                                                8

the epidemic, home basedcare, community mobilization, andpromotingcivil society and
public-private partnerships inthe fight against HIV/AIDS. The first two years o fGFATM
support would provide US$12 million grantsto the principal recipients and sub-recipients for
implementation. Disbursementso fthe grant will be basedon satisfactory performance in
implementation. The proposedproject will provide targeted supportto enablethe recipient
and implementing agenciesto effectively receive, manage and assess the impact these funds.

ComponentI:Supportto the Ministry of FinanceandDevelopmentPlanning(MFDP).
This component will supportthe MFDP to dischargeits fiduciary andprogram management
responsibilities as principalrecipient o fthe HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis grants from the
GFATM. Theproject will finance technical assistanceto strengthenthe capacity ofthe
Coordination Office inthe Ministry so that itperforms its oversight role under the GFATM
grant agreement. The Ministry will be supported to fulfill its accountability function with
regardsto the money disbursed to the sub-recipients. Specifically, longterm technical
assistance will be contracted bythe project to coordinate between the principal recipient and
its sub-recipients and ensure timely submissions o fannual work programs, approval o fthose
work programs by the Country Coordinating Mechanism, facilitate disbursement o ffunds to
the sub-recipients' account, ensure adequacyofthe financial controls and audits and to
ensure timely reporting on the agreed monitoring and evaluation indicators to the GFATM.

Component11:Supportto the Ministry of Health and SocialWelfare (MOHSW). The
projectwill support MOHSWto fulfill its role as a sub-recipient o fthe GFATMresources for
implementation o fHIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis interventions inthe health sector. The
proposed project's support will involve two sub-components:

    a. Assistance to the central MOHSW to enable itto deliver on its responsibilities
         through: (i)technical assistanceto establish the new HIV/AIDS Directorate, (ii)
        provision o fequipment andtraining to the MonitoringandEvaluationUnit, (iii)
        technical assistanceto the Procurement Unit, (iv) strengtheningo fthe Project
        Accounting Unit (PAU) with the provision o fadditional accounting staff and
         computers, and (v) support for leadership training to enhancethe management
         capacity withinthe Ministryat all levels.

    b. Enablingthe NationalDrugs and SuppliesOrganization (NDSO) to fulfill its role for
        procuringand distributing health sector goods. The project would support: (a)
        mediumterm technical assistanceto enableNDSO to conduct procurements using
         international competitive bidding, (b) support to strengthen drug inventory
         managementand security, (c) expansion o fwarehousing capability o fNDSO, and (d)
         support the creation o fa strong logistics system for laboratory services.

Component111: Supportto Secretariatof the NationalAIDS Program. The projectwill
finance the following: (a) engagement o f a firm to generate and manageproposals submitted
for funding through LAPCA, strengthen the District AIDS Coordinators and the District
AIDS Task Forces through regular training activities, monitor implementation bythe civil
society, private and public sector grant-recipients and ensure that appropriate fiduciary
safeguardsand procedures are inplace without constraining implementation; (b) provide
assistanceto develop community basedmonitoring and evaluation capacity for implementers
at the district and sub-district levels; and (c) provide assistanceto public sector line ministries



                                                  9

to develop fundable proposals for mainstreamingHIV/AIDSand support their
implementation.

ComponentIV: Supportfor civilsociety and privatesector capacitydevelopment. This
component will support capacity buildingto enable civil society and faith based
organizations, traditional institutions and communities to develop viable proposals,
implementsuch proposalsand fulfill the reportingrequirementsfor disbursements under the
GFATM agreement. The formal and informalprivate sector would also be supportedto
increase their capacity to implementHIV/AIDSactivities with resourcesprovidedthrough
the national program. Specific activities for financing under this component will include: (a)
assistanceto enable improved coordination o fcivil society activities at the national level
through dedicated NGO and private sector focal persons located inLAPCA and (b)
contracting a civil society consortium that has substantial grass-roots involvement to work
with mediumand small NGOs and CBOs indeveloping proposals and inimplementation.

4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe projectdesign
The project buildsuponBankexperience supportingHIV/AIDS in Lesotho. Underthe
existing Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP), approved inJune 2000, the Bank has worked
with the MOHSW and LAPCA to make grants available to NGOsto undertakeHIV/AIDS
projects. The Bank, more than any other partner, is aware o fthe additional capacities
requiredto enableLAPCA to better performthis function (as is envisioned under the
GFATM program), and to coordinate informationat the national level. The project has
identifiedneeds within civil society for additional skills inHIV/AIDS project design,
proposal writing, performance monitoring and accounting. The HSRPhas also supported an
assessment o fpharmaceutical management, the results o fwhich have informedthe proposed
project .
Implementationexperience from nationalAIDS programsinAfrica has shown that in
those countries which have not madeprogress inreversingthe spreado fthe HIV/AIDS
epidemic the main reasons included: (i)   the nationalprograms were inadequately financed;
(ii) wasinadequategovernmentcommitmentandleadership;(iii)
   there                                                                  support from
governments and the international community was too slow, especially for scaling up
effective programs, often developed byNGOs; (iv) insufficient resources reached
communities; and (v) programs were too narrowly focused on the health sector. With these
lessons at hand, the project adopted the following approach:
    The project is steppinginto strengthenimplementation o fthe national program and
    thereby improve outcomes by ensuringthat the GFATMresources are effectively used
    and appropriately accounted for.
    The project hasnurtureda broad basedpartnership across several donor agencies and
    with civil society organizations and has contributed to the development o fconsensuson
    the way forward for Lesotho, which is to focus on implementation.
    The adoption of a flexible approach to financing NGOsand communities by the GFATM
    i s complemented by this project's effort to strengthen the implementation capacities o f
    the NGOs.
    While the health sector has a normative responsibility and a leadership role to play in
    scaling up access to care and treatment, the national program inLesotho was built onthe
    foundations o fmulti-sectorality and the project i s providing support to the health sector
    as well to all other sectors.



                                                10

Focuson comparativestrengths ofvariouspartnerswithin the nationalprogram. The
Bank is acknowledged to havecomparative strengthininstitutionaldevelopment and
improvingcapacitiesfor fiduciary functions, suchas dealingwith procurementand financial
management. Inaddition,the BankhasbeeninvolvedinHIV/AIDS inLesotho for almost
two decadesand, as such, it has institutionalmemorythat may notbe availableamongother
partners.

Projectsinvolvingmultipleimplementingagencies needimplementationarrangementsthat
ensure effectivecoordinationofthese agencies. Inthis regard, the projectmanagementand
coordinationarrangementshavealreadybeendiscussedand agreedto ensurebetter
understandingof issuesto be addressedbythe projectand ofthe Bank's policiesand
procedures. The early agreement onprojectcomponents andcoordinationmechanismswill
ensure that once the projectis approved, start-upactivitiescan be implementedwithout
delay.

4. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection
MAP Project: Inmorethan 24 African countriesand several others inthe Caribbeanand
EuropeandCentralAsia, the Bankhas financedimplementationofHIV/AIDS programs. In
the Africa regioninparticular,allthe countriessupportedbythe MAPSemploya similar
model:mostlygrant financingfor directimplementationofmulti-sectorresponse. Inthe
Lesothocontext, additionalfunds for implementationare notthe priority, ratherwhat is
requiredis implementationsupportto facilitatethe use ofthe GFATMresources. If
additionalgaps remain, the BankcouldprovidetraditionalMAPfunding.

Learning and Innovation Loan: Learningand InnovationLoans are meantto test innovative
approaches from which lessonscan be drawn. Inthe case ofthe LesothoNationalAIDS
Program, the issue isnotthat ofnotknowingwhat to do, butratherthat ofsupportinga
processof learningby doingusingthe GFATMresources. Inaddition, a LILwould not
necessarily providethe flexibility to financethe TA requiredfor implementation.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements
As the projectis intendedto support the implementationofGFATM, projectpreparationand
projectimplementationhave beenclosely coordinatedwith the PortfolioManager ofthe
GFATM, members ofthe CountryCoordinatingMechanism(CCM) andthe Local Fund
Agent (LFA), PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC). The Bank's supervisionofthe TA Project
will support supervisionofthe GFATMprograminLesotho. As the GFATMhas no
capacityto superviseor provideimplementationsupport, the GlobalFundandthe Bankhave
beenexploringways to collaborate;the TA Projectis viewedas a potentialmodelfor this
partnership.

Inaddition, there is extensivecollaborationacross the various externalpartnersproviding
supportto HIV/AIDS inLesotho. The pre-appraisalmissionwas ajoint missionundertaken
together with UNDP, WHO, UNICEF,GFATM, the DevelopmentCooperationIreland
(DCI), andthe UK Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment(DffD). This missiondefined
the projectscope and content, andpartnerscontinuedto support preparation-through
contributingto the draft Terms ofReference. DffDhas supportedthe institutionalcapacity
assessment ofLAPCA, andDCI-together with WHO-will support the institutional


                                               11

capacityassessment ofthe HIV/AIDSunit ofthe MOHSW. These analyseswill informthe
terms o freference ofthe technicalassistanceto beprovidedunder the project.

The projectteam hasalsoworkedwiththe USEmbassyandthe US-financedPolicyProject
(which supports localNGOsworking on HIV/AIDS), as well as the manyNGOsrepresented
throughthe UNAIDSExpendedTheme Groupandthe CCM. The activitiesto be financed
complement other inputsbythe US, DCIandthe AfricanDevelopmentBank(AfDB), which
i s financing a Procurement Managerwho will also support procurement under this project
andunderthe GFATMitself. Their support to developingthe capacityofthe Social Welfare
arm o fthe MOHSW is also complementary. DCIwill finance the pendingDHS
(DemographicandHealthSurvey) which will includean HIV/AIDSmodule.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements
The proposedTA projectis intendedto facilitate and supportthe managementand
implementationrequirementsofthe GFATM. Therefore, it is importantto explicitly
recognizethe institutionaland implementationarrangements for the GFATMitself(as
described inAnnex 4). The project-specificmanagementand implementationrequirements
for the proposedTA projectshould add limitedadditionaldemands andwill employ existing
structures and capacities withinthe PrincipleRecipientandtwo sub-recipients.

The implementingagency for the TA projectwill bethe GFATMCoordinationOfficewithin
the MFDPDebtManagement Office. Itwill be responsiblefor overseeingproject
implementationandmonitoring. However,as with the implementationofthe GFATM, the
ProjectAccountingUnit(PAU) -which was established withinthe MOHSWto manage
funds o fmultipleexternalfinanciersunder the Health Sector ReformProgram-will manage
disbursementsoffunds against expenditures, account for, and submitFinancialManagement
Reports(FMRs) to draw downagainst the IDA Grant; andthe procurementofcontractual
services and goods underthe proposedTA Projectwill be managedby the ProcurementUnit
o fthe MOHSW.

As described above, recipientsofthe technicalassistance will be (i)
                                                                  the MFDPGFATM
CoordinationOffice, (ii)LAPCAand its local arm, the DistrictAIDS Task Forces(DATFs);
(iii)theMOHSWHIV/AIDSDirectorate,theM&EUnit,ProjectAccountingUnitandthe
Procurement Unit,as well as the NDSOandNationalPublicHealthLaboratory; (iv) other
government ministriesandagencies; and (v) NGOs, CBOs andprivatesector entities
throughoutthe country. Technicalassistance will be contractedto firms and individuals,
except inthe caseofcivil society, where proposalswill be sought from a consortiumoflarge
experienced NGOs andumbrellaorganizationsto facilitate supportto implementingagencies
within civil society.

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomes/results
IDA and GFATMbothplacehighpriority on monitoringand evaluation(M&E). M&E
requirementsfor assessingthe outcomeand resultsofthe proposedTA projectitselfwill be
limited, butas the projectwill providetechnicalassistance to develop and strengthen systems
to generate early andregularinformationonthe nationalHIV/AIDSprogram's outputsand
impact, as well as epidemictrends, measuresofsuccess will relate to howwell the
government is able to assess the impactofthe nationalprogram. Comprehensive monitoring
andevaluationsystems shouldincludesurveillance, epidemiologicresearch, financial
management, andprojectmanagement components. The proposedprojectwill further


                                             12

develop national indicators, support improvement inthe quality assuranceo fdata collection
and the design o fappropriate survey tools, as well as strengthenstaff skills with respectto
M&Esystems overall, their management,anduse inenabling continual improvements in
programs. A Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)with an HIV/AIDSmodule is under
preparation (with financial support from DCI). Itwill produce data on knowledge and
behavior, as well as sero-prevalence for 2004, providing important baseline data for the
GFATMprogram.

4. Sustainability
The project focuses on buildingthe capacity o fgovernment institutions, as well as the
capacity o fcivil society. Key project inputsfocus on definingthe terms o freference for and
establishing both the NationalAIDS Commission Secretariat, the Directorate for HIV/AIDS
withinthe MOHSW andthe GFATMUnitwithinthe MFDP. These new structureswithin
the public sector for respondingto HIV/AIDSwill be enabledto better absorb and manage
significant external resources, as well as to demonstrateresults. Inturn, this will enable
Lesotho to better attract additional external resources after project completion. Also, within
the public sector, project inputswill strengthen core functions related to the procurement o f
goods and services, and the specialized procurement, storage, distributionand management
o fpharmaceuticals and medical supplies-an important contribution to the health sector as a
whole. Evenwhere the project will finance contractors to implement activities on behalf o f
the GOL, it is expectedto buildexperienceinout-sourcing, and help define away ofdoing
business that will extend well beyond the life o fthe project.

The GOL recognizes that an expanded andmore effective -engagement o fcivil society
                                         --
organizations (NGOs, industry, small businesses, churches, community-based organizations),
i s requiredto bringto scale efforts to prevent the transmission o fHIV, to provide care for
families living with HIV/AIDS, and to mitigate the impact o fthe diseaseon households,
communities, society and the economy. The GFATMprogram will, to a great extent, be
implementedby civil society. The project will contribute to developing the ability o fthese
many actors to make a contribution -defining their comparative advantage, ensuring they
employ tested interventions, buildingtheir capacity to design, implement, monitor and
evaluate effective projects, as well as to manageand account for funds received. These
inputswill contribute towards sustainedcollaboration betweenthe public andprivate sector
which will have a wider impact beyond HIV/AIDS.

5. Critical risks and possiblecontroversial aspects
There are no anticipated controversial aspectsto the project.
r               Risks            I             RiskMitigationMeasures

  o project developmentobjective
    ernal politics undermine     IPreparationhas                                      I
                                                  engagedwide range of stakeholders Nodest
decisionsonhowthe GFATMwill andthe approachutilizes existing institutions.
be managed. Potentialconflict
among partners.
The areas targeted for capacity   The projectcovers procurement, financial            Modest
support are not sufficientto      management, M&E, logisticsmanagementandthe
support GFATMimplementation. engagementofcivil society. The projectbuildsupon
                                  experience underthe existingHealthSector Reform



                                                13

SFATM implementation.              draftedprior to Negotiations. AfDB has financeda
                                   ProcurementManager for unit.
Qualified firms do notrespondto Work hasbeenbundledinto largecontracts, so as to      Modest
the RFPs.                          attractexperiencedfirms. Consultancieswill be
                                   advertisedinDevelopmentBusiness as well as
                                   throughsector-specificavenues.
Overall RiskRating                                                                    Modest



6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Condition o fEffectiveness
0  Appoint a Head (Le., the ChiefExecutive) for LAPCA

Legal Covenants
    0    Remain eligible for disbursementsfrom the GFATM.
    0    Maintainthe Head o fLAPCA (or its replacement as Secretariatto the NAC).
    0    Ensurethat LAPCA, the Global FundCoordination Team, the HIV/AIDS
         Directorate, the PAU, and the MOHSW Procurement Unit are (i)         assignedfunctions
         and responsibilities, and (ii)staffed at a level requiredto implement the project.
    0    Maintainpolicies and procedures adequateto enable it to monitor and evaluate the
         key indicators.

FinancialCovenants
    0    The Government will cause the project to have its records, accountsand financial
         statementsaudited each year for boththe Special Account and Statements o f
         Expenditures,commencing with the accounts for the year ending March2005.
    0    The PAUwill submitquarterly FinancialManagement Reports notlaterthan45 days
         after the end of eachquarter.




                                                 14

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses
The proposed project will provide technical assistanceandbuildthe institutional capacity
requiredfor successfulimplementation ofHIV/AIDSprograms inLesotho. The nature ofthe
anticipated financing should have no fiscal impact andwill not increaseoperating
expenditures. The project should improve the efficiency o fpublic expenditure by
strengthening implementation capacity, by improvingprocurement procedures inorder to
obtain better value for money, and by outsourcing implementation to civil society. The
project is expectedto enable Lesotho to mobilize additional financing for HIV/AIDS.
GFATMfinancing isnot subject to economic and financial analysis. The engagementofthe
Bank through the proposedproject should facilitate a more robust consideration o fthe
existingGFATMand other potential financing. Particular concernsrate to sustainability o f
financing for treatment. The proposedproject is intendedto helpensure sustainedfinancing
(through improved utilization o fresources), and TA financed under the project will help
ensure that the national program employs cost-effective standards.

2. Technical
Lesotho ranks among the countries with the highestHIV/AIDS prevalence globally. It is also
a poor country compared to its immediate neighbors: South Africa, Botswana, Swaziland and
Namibia. Not only doesthe country face enormous economic challenges, it also is affected
bythe ease with which human capital originating from within its borders can easily migrate
to the neighboring countries. As a result, many highlyqualified Basotho depart public sector
institutions. The Bank's experience in supporting health sector reforms has shown that
institutional capacity, definedas adequacy o f systems, procedures and individual capabilities,
i s a significant constraint to implementation. Effectively responding to HIV/AIDSin
Lesotho will require improved institutional capacity, not only financial resources.

By far the largest source offinancing to the Lesotho AIDS program isthe GFATM, which
approved $34 million to Lesotho for HIV/AIDS (US$29million) andtuberculosis (US$5
million) over five years from 2002. So far, despite the initial disbursement o fthe funds from
the GFATM, very little has been accomplished interms o f implementation. Increasingly, it
i s becoming obvious that Lesotho stands the risk o f losing part, ifnot all, o fthe approved
funds unless implementation picks up. What is crucial withthe GFATMis for there to be
proper systems to ensure that funds disbursed are usedfor intended activities and that results
are monitored and reported as agreed.

The rationale for this project is to provide implementation support for HIV/AIDS,
complementary to other partners that are supporting the Lesotho national response. It is clear
that additional financial resourcesfor implementation is not the answer, that implementation
capacity for HIV/AIDSis a cross-cutting limiting factor within the public sector, and that
additional efforts are required to mobilize latent capacity in civil society within Lesotho and
from other areas inthe region. Such an approach i s inconformity with international
standardso fcomplementary partnership for development and is appropriate to the immediate
needs o fthe Government o f Lesotho.

3. Fiduciary
Both the MFDP and MOHSW will have accounting responsibility for the components falling
under their respective ministries. However, as the Project Accounting Unit(PAU) resides


                                                15

  withinthe MOHSW, itwill have responsibility for consolidating the performance ofall
  components for purposes o f giving an overall project picture, when required. At the
  MOHSW, the project will make use o fthe existingPAU, which is the accounting unit for the
  ongoing Health Sector ReformProject (HSRP) and has carried out that responsibility
  satisfactorily to date. The PAUFinance Manager will therefore have overall financial
  managementresponsibility for the project. One Special Account will be opened andwill be
  managedby the PAU.

  The GFATMallows executing agenciesto utilizetheir existingsystems inmanaging any
  funds provided, therefore the use ofthe PAUwill not contravenethe financier's terms and
  conditions. The PAUwill however requireadditional accounting staffto enable it to cope
  with the increasedwork load emanating from taking on the addedresponsibility for the
  GFATM. Inthis regard, a `no objection' for the terms o freference ofaproposed "Global
 Fund' accountant at the PAUhas alreadybeen issued bythe Bank. The PAUhas also
  decided to strengthenits financial management systems, including seekingto upgrade its
  present Microsoft Access basedaccounting system, probably replacing it with a more
  conventional accounting software. This would better equip the unitto meet the challenges
  that lie ahead, such as the compulsory production o fFinancial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
  for the TA project.

  Lesotho government regulations requires the Auditor General (AG) o f Lesotho to bethe
I auditor o fall government revenuesand expenditure. Thus the AG will be the statutory
  auditor o fthe project, although the regulations permit her (the AG) to sub-contract some o f
  the work where in it is deemedprudentto do so. Inthat event, the terms and conditions for
 the hiringofthe `other' auditor haveto be satisfactory to the Bank.

  Procurement will be performed bythe Procurement Unit o fthe MOHSW. Currently, this
  unit is responsible for IDA,DCIandAfDB-financed procurement under the existing Health
  Sector Reform Program. It has two Procurement Officers, who have benefited from long-
  term technical assistance and short-term training inIDA procurement procedures. It is
  headedby a Procurement Manager, who has recently joined the unit from an AfDB-financed
  agriculture project. Ithas the minimum systems and procedures requiredto implementthe
  proposed project, although it will require additional capacity to respond to increaseddemands
  underthe GFATM.

  4. Social
  The project is expectedto have a significant, positive social impact through (i) building
  capacity both within the Government and civil society to better target and serve vulnerable
  groups; (ii)strengthening capacity withinthe Government to collaborate with civil society;
  and (iii)buildingcapacity within civil society and the private sector to prepare and
  implement proposals and otherwise participate inthe scaling-up o fthe national responseto
  HIV/AIDS.

  The project will build capacity to better serve and target vulnerable groups inmultipleways.
  Itwill provide support to MOHSW's Department ofSocial Welfare to implement
  interventions targeted towards orphans and vulnerable children, consistent with the Social
  Welfare Policy. The Department will also be supported to strengthen its capacity to
  collaborate with NGOs and optimally implement interventions including the Social Welfare
  Policy for orphans and vulnerable children. Finally, through the participationo fcivil society


                                                 16

  described below, it will enhancethese organizations' capacity to better serve vulnerable
  populations.

  The Civil Society andPrivate Sector Capacity Development component ofthe project will
  support capacity for facilitating civil society and faith-based organization -including
  umbrella organizations -and communities to develop and implementproposals to contribute
  to the scaling up o fthe national response. This component will support the formal and
  informalprivate sectorto increasetheir capacity to implementHIV/AIDSactivities with
  resourcesprovidedthrough the national program. This capacity will be immediately applied
  as GFATMsupport through LAPCA is to be channeledto civil society, as well as private and
  public sector entities. Support to LAPCA will include strengtheningthe District AIDS Task
  Forcesto perform their appraisal and coordination hnction for community proposals, and the
  strengthenedcapacity inmonitoring & evaluation will ensurethat feedback from civil
  society, as well as other stakeholders, continues to be reflected inthe priorities o fthe national
  program.

  5. Environment
  The project is a capacity andtechnical assistanceoperation and hasbeencategorized as
  Category C with regardsenvironmental impact. There will be no drugs, chemicals, reagents
  or similar commodities procured underthe project. The only works envisagedwill expand an
  existing warehouse on the grounds o fthe National Drug Supply Organization.

  6. Safeguard policies

Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                                  Yes                     N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                                    [I                      [XI
Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                                 [I                     [XI
PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                     11                     [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                        [I                      [XI
InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                          [I                      [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                         [I                      [XI
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                         [I                      [XI
Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                  [I                      [XI
Projects inDisputed Areas (OPBP/GP 7.60)'                                                    [I                      [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                          [I                      [XI

  There are no Bank safeguardpolicies triggered bythe project.

  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

  No policy exceptions are sought.

  Draft Terms o fReference have beenreviewed duringthe Appraisal mission. A Procurement
  Plan has also been reviewed and approved. The key Technical Assistance will be advertised
  and the recruitment process is scheduledto begin inadvance o fEffectiveness, withthe
  remaining primary recruitments taking place over the subsequent six months.

  * By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties'claims on
  the disputed areas



                                                             17

Disbursementsmadeafter April 30, 2004 for consultantswill beeligible for retroactive
financing.



                   Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
    LESOTHO: HIV and AIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistance Project

Lesotho is among the countries worst affected by the HIV/AIDSepidemic. HIV/AIDSis the
leading cause o fmorbidity and mortality inthe country. With an estimated national
population o f2.2 million and 330,000 of its adults estimated to be infected with HIV, the
country is a facing an unprecedentednational disaster. Compared to neighboring countries
like South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland who all have similarly high HIV/AIDS
prevalence, Lesotho has limited national financial and human resourcesto effectively tackle
the epidemic, which threatensto further undermineits development.

The first AIDS case was reported inLesotho in 1986. SincethenHIVprevalence rose
dramatically from an initial adult prevalence o f4 percent in 1993 to 9.8 percent in 1998 and
31percent by 2002. Ina generalized epidemic such as that o fLesotho, urban-rural
differentials inthe prevalence rates are diminished. Inaddition, traditional at-risk groups,
such as commercial sex workers and their clients, truckers and migrant workers are no longer
the only riskgroups. The epidemic hasbecomefirmly established inall segmentsofsociety,
and the majority o fthose infected have no easily identifiable risk behavior.

There are many reasons for the rapid spreado fHIV infection inthe country. Unprotected
sex with multiplepartners is the most important contributor, especially among the young, but
the underlyingreasonsare multi-faceted, includingsocio-cultural, behavioral, economic and
possibly biological. Despite the highprevalence o fHIV/AIDS, there still exist stigma
associatedwith the disease, and a large proportion o fthose infected are still indenial. With a
long period from infectionto appearance o f symptomatic disease, those who are infected can
transmit the infection to several others. Voluntary counseling and testing is still inadequate,
and even where it exists, stigma may preventpeople from seekingthe tests. Social
vulnerability o fyoung people and women, migrant workers returningfrom South African
mines, andthe continued culture ofsilence, which does not speakagainst stigma and
discrimination, continues the propagation o fthe epidemic. An estimated 27,000 children
aged 0-14 years were infected with the HIV virus by 2002, the vast majority o fwhom
contracted the virus through parent to child transmission. Inadequate attention to prevention
o fmother to child transmission is responsible for these largely preventable child HIV
infections.

The impact ofthe epidemic hasbeensevereand may continue to worsen as those who are
currently infected become illor die. Heavy burdenis placed bythe epidemic on families and
communities who have to cope with caring for infected persons as well as shouldering their
other responsibilities. The numbero f single and dual orphans inLesotho has risen to its
highest level ever at around 90,000 children ages 0-15 years and will likely remainhighor
increase inthe short term, to a large extent due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. As more adults
andparents die o fthe disease, increasing numbers o fchildren will become single or dual



                                               18

 orphans. The cohesive and communaltradition o fthe Basuto is beingeroded as families
 disintegrate and unbearableburden is placed on communities by the premature deathso f
 infected individuals. Negative effects attributable to the epidemic include decreased
 workforce productivity, increasedabsenteeism from work and school and spiraling poverty.
 Economic development is being hamperedas a result.

 With the help o f its multi-lateral and bi-lateral partners, the Government o fLesotho is now
 fully engaged inefforts to strengthen its national responseto the HIV/AIDS epidemic. In
 2000, the Government ofLesotho adopted aNationalHIV/AIDSStrategic Plan andthe
 National AIDS Policy Framework, which were basedon multi-sector approachto the fight
 against HIV/AIDSand embracedengagementwith civil society and communities inthe fight
 against the epidemic. The Lesotho AIDS Program Coordinating Authority (LAPCA) was
 established in2001with a mandateto coordinate and monitor and evaluate implementation
 o fthe national response. Unfortunately LAPCA's ability to fulfill its mandatewas limitedby
 a multitudeo f factors, includingabsence o f a full complement o f staff, impromptu dismissal
 o f its Executive Directorthat made it almost leaderless for more than a year and an unclear
 legal status.

 InJuly 2003, Lesotho hostedanextraordinary meeting of SADC on HIV/AIDS, andrecent
 approval by the Cabinet o f an UNDP-led document titled "Scaling up the fight against the
 HIV/AIDSepidemic inLesotho" reflects increasedhigh-levelattention needs to be followed
 upby concrete action. The Cabinet's approval ofthe document was accompaniedby a
 decision to create aNational AIDS Commission that will overseethe national responseto
 HIV/AIDS inLesotho. The Commission i s envisioned to comprise appointed Commissioner
 and four other Commissioners electedby their constituents (Youth, Women, Church Groups
 and People Livingwith HIV/AIDS) and with an improvedLAPCA functioning as Secretariat
 to the Commission. Despite the decision bythe Government to createthe Commission, it
 appears that the process may be prolonged as the consultations that precededthe
 Government's decision are now appearingto be less than adequate.

 With the approval o fthe GFATMresources and first disbursements to Lesotho, the challenge
 now has shifted from advocacy and resourcemobilization to one o f implementation and
 delivery on the ground. The Principal Recipient o fthe GFATMresourcesis the Ministry of
 Finance, and the two sub-recipients are LAPCA andthe Ministryo fHealth and Social
 Welfare (MOHSW). It is clear that effective implementation would require substantial
capacity mobilization and development o f innovative ways to appropriately channel the
 funds, carry out interventions and monitor the outputs, outcomes and impacts to ensure
continued flow o f funds from the GFATM.

Despite two decades o f experience within the health sector inaddressing HIV/AIDS and the
essentialrole that it must play in settingquality standards and delivering services, becauseo f
dissatisfaction with the MOHSW's contribution, it has been more recently sidelinedinthe
national responseto HIV/AIDS. Implementation o fthe GFATMresourceswill dependupon
the finalization and dissemination ofnational guidelines and standardsrelatedto prevention,
care and treatment, and informed projections o fpharmaceutical requirementsand functioning
logistics system (Le., the selection, budgeting, procurement and distribution o fdrugs,
laboratory and medical supplies). Strengthening health sector is fundamental to an expanded
responseto HIV/AIDS and would have effects on the performance o fthe broader health
.system. Improvements infinancial managementandprocurement as well as strengtheningof


                                                  19

health workers capabilities to deliver health services, especially inthe rural areas, would have
immense benefit for the health system overall.

The current HIV/AIDS Unit ofthe M O H S W resides under the Division of Disease Control,
which is under the Directorate o f Primary Health Care, which reports to the Director General
ofHealth Services, who reports to the Principal Secretary. Implications are that (i)   the
hierarchy inhibits the agile response required of an AIDS unit ina highprevalence country;
and (ii)no one on the Senior Management Team of the M O H S W is directly accountable for
HIV/AIDS.




                                               20

      Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
    LESOTHO: HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistance Project


                                                                                LatestSupervision
                                                     Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                            (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                           Implementation  Development
Bank-financed:Sector Issue                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
dealth, Nutrition & Population- built    Health Sector Reform Program            S              U
irocurement &financial management        3-Phase APL
wpport, assessedpharmaceutical           (Approved June 2000, PhaseI
ogistics management capacity, built      closes).
M&E capacity.
vlultisectoral HIVIAIDS - initiated      Component within above project.
:ontractingto civil society to implement
WYAIDSprojects,focused on role of
LAPCA.
3ducation -addressesHW/AIDS in           Education Sector Development            S        u      S
TducationSector.                         APL Phase I1(Effective
                                         9/15/2003).
SocialProtection-piloted approachesto Community Development                      U
?ommunityParticipation.                  Support Project (Closed
                                         913Of20031.
Other developmentagencies
3FATM to FightAIDS, TB andMalaria. HIVIAIDS and TB Project.
Ievelopment CooperationIreland-will
rupport DHS,supjorts MOHSW
YIV/AIDSunit.
4frican Development Bank -supports       HealthVI.
$ocial Weyarecapacity of theMOHSW,
mdprocurement capacity within
MOHSW.
3uropeanUnion-$name TA on M&E            TA Project.
md on decentralization in the MOHSW.
JSAID -supportsdevelopmentof NGOs The Policy Project.
uorking on health andAIDS.
JSAID -social marketinq ofcondoms.       PoDulation Service International.




                                               21

                       Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
     LESOTHO:HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistance Project

                                   ResultsFramework

            PDO                      utcomeIn

To increasethe capacity o f   Percentagedisbursement o f     The pace o f disbursement
government and non-           GFATM resources                will indicate whether
governmental institutions     (monitored each quarter and    lbsorptive capacity has
responsiblefor the national   cumulatively).                 increased. IfGFATM
responseto HIV/AIDSto                                        jisbursementsdo not
utilize and assessthe impact  Percentageand amount o f       increase, thenthe project
a f funds received for        financing disbursed through    design will needto be
HIV/AIDS.                     civil society (CBOs, NGOs,     assessed. The share o f
                              FBOs and the private sector    disbursementsto civil society
                              for HIV/AIDS).                 will measurethe levelo f
                                                             engagement and increased
                                                             capacity o fcivil society.


                              Percentageo fprojects          Implementation o fthe
                              financed under the GFATM       projects receiving support
                              which arejudged to be          underthe Lesotho GFATM
                               implementedsatisfactorily.    will be monitored by
                                                             LAPCA (with TA procured
                                                             under the project). The
                                                             percent that are being
                                                             implementedsatisfactorily
                                                             should increaseifthis TA
                                                             project is successful at
                                                             improving capacity.

                               Annual reports on all key     The ability to assessthe
                               HIV/AIDSprogram               impact o f fund though
                               indicators are produced and   monitoring program
                               disseminated (and usedto      indicators will be critical to
                               inform allocation decisions). accessingadditional
                                                             resourcesand to ensuring
                                                             that strategies have the
                                                             desiredeffect on behavior,
                                                              incidence, diagnosis and
                                                             care.




                                              22

                                   ResultsIndicators        Use of ResultsMonitoring

ComponentOne:                Timely submission of          Reportproductionwill be
Support to Ministry of       quarterlyreportsto the CCM    criticalto obtaining
Finance andDevelopment:      andGFATM.                     additionalfunds andwill
Strengthenedcapacityto                                     monitorthe impactofTA on
fulfill itsprogramoversight                                M&E.
and fiduciary responsibility
inthe managementof           The percent o festablished    Ifthepostsinthe new
GFATMresources.              postsfilled inthe MOHSW       HIV/AIDSdirectorateare
                             HIV/AIDSDirectorate.          not filled, then it is unlikely
ComponentTwo:                                              that the MOHSW can fulfill
MOHSFK Increasedcapacity                                   itsrolewithin the GFATM.
to implementanexpanded
responseto HIV/AIDS inthe The percentageo ffacilities      Ifthe newMOHSW
healthand social welfare     which are familiar withthe    Directorateis properly
sectors.                     nationalguidelinesonVCT,      functioning, guidelinesand
                             ARVs, Care & Treatment,       protocolsshouldbe
ComponentThree:              andOrphans.                   completed, and service
StrengthenedSeeretariat of                                 delivery sites shouldbe
the National AIDS Program                                  familiar with them. Ifthis is
(LAPCA): Increased                                         notthe case, thenadditional
capacityto coordinatethe                                   TA maybe requiredfor the

HIV/AIDS.
nationalresponseto                                         HIV/AIDSUnit and/or
                                                           disseminationwork should
                                                           be outsourced.
Component Four: Civil
Society & Private Sector:    NumberofVCT sites with        Ifthe impactofinputsinto
Increasedcapacityto          requiredtest kits, counselors improvinglogisticsand
develop grant proposals,     and following national        procurementdo notresult in
implementsub-projects, and   protocols.                    improvedavailabilityof
to providetimely and                                       supplies (such as at VCT
accurate activity reports.   Institutionalizationof        sites) or adoptionofICB
                             InternationalCompetitive      thenthe TA for NDSO&
                             Bidding(ICB) for large        labswill needto
                             procurementofmedical          reconsidered.
                             goods by the public health
                             sector.

                             The percentage ofestablished Will indicatecommitmentby
                             posts filled inLAPCA (or its  GOLto strengthencapacity
                             successor Secretariat).       of LAPCA.




                                            23

                      rs


The qualityofBehavior      The qualityo fthe BCC
Change Communication       initiativeswill informthe
strategies within the      BCC TA approaches and
MOHSW, LAPCAand            duration.
NGOs, as assessed
independently.

Percentageofproposals      The qualityofproposals
submittedto LAPCA for      submittedto LAPCA will
financingeachquarter which indicatethe impactofefforts
are successful.            to buildNGOcapacity.




              24

  3   !
  4     a


  aE    E   6
        4   Y
            cl




            x     h
           d      4
                  3

                  3
                  (d
                  1




a2
a
f
.I
m   sm      0
    d

I

    3
    *       3
            m
    0
    z       5:
    E       3   0
                c
                        Y




x                 x
                  2
e
d                MCI
cd                cd
dc
5




     3CI    v)    0     IA
      cd    m     IA    b

g
E:



      3
      cd    W     E:


0     0     0     0


                                Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
        LESOTHO: HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistance Project

Thisproject is designedto complement the use ofGFATMapproved resourcesinLesotho through
provision o ftechnical assistanceand capacity buildingactivities. The project is supporting the
implementation o fthe national AIDS program to control the spreado fHIV/AIDS and mitigate its
impact on vulnerable groups, individuals, families, communities and the nation as whole. The
GFATMsupport to Lesotho is aimed at supporting the scaling up o fspecific interventions for
preventions, care, treatment and impact mitigation, including the expansion o ftraining and
education, provision o fbasic care to those infected and affected by the epidemic, home basedcare,
community mobilization, and promotingcivil society and public-private partnerships inthe fight
against HIV/AIDS. Infurtherance o fits objective, the project will have the following components:

Component I:Support to the Ministryo f Finance and Development Planning;(MFDP)

MFDP is the principal recipient o fthe GFATMresources on behalf o fthe Government o fLesotho,
According to the GFATM assessment, MFDP needs its capacity to be strengthened interms o fstaff,
equipment and ability to provide support and overall leadership, oversight and program management
responsibility for all sub-recipients and participating stakeholders. The MFDP is not positioned to
provide leadership responsibility for implementation and has delegatedsuch responsibilities to the
sub-recipients (see below).

Component Io fthe project will focus on supporting the MFDPto discharge it's fiduciary and
program managementresponsibilities. The project will specifically finance technical assistanceto
strengthen the capacity o fthe Coordination Ofice inthe MFDP so that it performs its oversight role
underthe GFATMgrant agreement. The MFDPwillbe supportedto fulfill its accountability
function with regardsto the money disbursedto the sub-recipients through the same technical
assistanceand byproviding it with computers and equipment. The technical assistancewill assist the
MFDP incoordinating with the subArecipientsand ensuring annual work programs are submitted on
time and approved bythe Country Coordinating Mechanism, facilitating disbursementoffundsto the
sub-recipients' accounts, and ensuring adequacy o fthe financial controls and audits andto ensure
timely reporting onthe agreedmonitoring and evaluation indicators to the GFATM.

Component 11: Support to the Ministryo fHealth and Social Welfare (MOHSW)

MOHSW is a sub-recipient o fthe GFATM resources for both HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis. In
addition, the Ministryhas a normative role inhealth sector service delivery in general and a technical
leadership role to play with regardsto HIV/AIDS.Recent efforts within the Ministryhave rekindled
hope that it would play its part inscaling up the HIV/AIDSresponse.

Component I1o fthe project will provide support to the MOHSWthrough two sub-components:

Sub-component A will finance: (i)   technical assistanceto the new HIV/AIDSDirectorate, (ii)
provision o fequipment and training to the Monitoringand Evaluation Unit, (iii)technical assistance
to the Procurement Unit, (iv) strengthening o fthe Project Accounting Unit (PAU) with the provision
o fadditional accounting staff and computers, and (v) support for leadership training to enhancethe
managementcapacity within the Ministryat all levels.


                                                    28

Sub-component B will focus on enabling the NationalDrugsand Supplies Organization (NDSO) to
fulfill its role for procuringand distributing health sector goods. The project will finance: (i)
expansion o f existing warehousing capability o fNDSO, (ii)support to strengthen drug inventory
managementsystem and security at all hospitals, (iii)mediumterm technical assistanceto enable
NDSO to conduct health sectorprocurements usinginternational competitive bidding, and (iv)
support for the creation o fa strong logistics system for laboratory services.

Component 111: Support to the Secretariato fthe NationalHIV/AIDSProgram    -


Lesotho AIDS Program Coordinating Authority (LAPCA) is a sub-recipient o fthe GFATM for              ,
HIV/AIDSactivities on behalfofpublic sector andcivil society institutions. Additionally, LAPCA's
mandate for coordinating, monitoring and evaluatingthe implementation o fthe National HIV/AIDS
Program is crucial to the successful implementation o factivities usingGFATMand other resources.
The project's support to LAPCA will include strengtheningthe District AIDS Task Forcesto
perform their appraisal and coordination function for community proposals as LAPCA's
representative institutions.

Theproject will specifically finance the following: (i)engagementofa firm to generate andmanage
proposals submitted for funding through LAPCA, strengthenthe District AIDS Coordinators and the
District AIDS Task Forces through regular training activities, monitor implementation by the.civil
society, private and public sector grant-recipients and ensurethat appropriate fiduciary safeguards
and procedures are inplace without constraining implementation, (ii)    provide assistanceto develop
community basedmonitoring and evaluation capacity for implementersat the district and sub-district
levels, and (iii)provide assistanceto public sector line ministriesto develop fundable proposals for
mainstreaming HIV/AIDS and support their implementation.

Component IV: Support for Civil Societv and Private Sector Capacity Development for HIV/AIDS:

Lesotho has latent capacity outside the public sector which should be mobilized, further developed
and harnessedinthe fight against HIV/AIDS.NGOs, FBOs, CBOs and private sector are potential
implementers o factivities financed bythe GFATM. Consultations heldwith the civil society and
private sector duringprojectpreparation has revealed specific areas o fassistancethat this project can
complement other partners, including the GFATM.

The project will support institutionalcapacity for facilitating umbrellacivil society and faith based
organizations, traditional institutions and communities to develop proposals, implement such
proposals and fulfill the reporting requirements for disbursementsunder the GFATMagreement.
Formaland informal private sector would also be supported to increasetheir capacity to implement
HIV/AIDSactivities with resourcesprovidedthrough the national program. Specific activities for
financing under this component will include: (a) assistanceto enable improvedcoordination o fcivil
society activities at the national levelthrough dedicated NGO and Private Sector focal persons
located in LAPCA and (b) contracting a civil society consortium that has substantial grass-roots
involvement to work with mediumand small community basedNGOs indeveloping proposals and in
implementation.




                                                    29

                                     Annex 5: ProjectCosts
       LESOTHO: HJY and AIDS Capacity Buildingand TechnicalAssistance Project



ProjectCost By Componentand/or Activity                Local       Foreign      Total
                                                     US $million U S $million US $million.


MinistryofFinance& DevelopmentPlanning                   0.01        0.36        0.37
Ministry ofHealth and SocialWelfare                      0.46        1.68        2.14
LesothoAIDS Preventionand Control Authority              0.44        0.94        1.38
Civil Society and Private Sector Capacity                0.79        0.38        1.16
Development
Total Baseline Cost
                                 Total ProjectCosts'     1.70        3.35        5.05




                                              30

                                Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
         LESOTHO: HJY and AIDS CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistance Project

As the project will mainly finance technical assistance, the implementation arrangementsare not
complex. Descriptions o fhow the GFATMfinancing will be managedand implementedappear
under the project description annex. The project will be managedbythe GFATMCoordination
Team to be establishedwithin the Ministryo fFinance and Development Planning (MFDP), Debt
Management Office. The team will be establishedprior to project initiation. Retroactive financing is
intendedto support the hiringofconsultants to complement the MFDP staff, This office will receive
support underthe project but will also be responsible for ensuringthe success o fproject
implementation and for liaisingwith and reporting to the World Bank, as well as other partners. This
office i s closely affiliated with the Country Coordinating Mechanism (the CCM) which represents
the key stakeholdersand implementingagencies under the GFATM.

Financialmanagement, disbursementand accounting will be the responsibility o fthe Project
Accounting Unit (PAU) withinthe Department o fHealthPlanning and Statistics (HPSU) inthe
Ministry o fHealth and Social Welfare (MOHSW). Procurement o f goods, services and works will
be managedbythe Procurement Unitwithin the same Department. A special account will be
establishedto be managedby the PAU, under authority o fthe MFDP. Under the project, both o f
these units will receive technical assistance and institutional capacity to enablethem to also provide
financial management, disbursement andprocurement servicesto the GFATM.

Terms o fReference for the consultant servicesto be procured will be finalized and approved by
various offices: MFDPfor support to its coordination office; MOHSW inthe case o fTA to its
HIV/AIDSSecretariat, the support to the NationalDrug SupplyOrganization (NDSO), the support to
the National Laboratory, support to its own M&EUnit, as well as TA to the PAUand the
Procurement Unit.LAPCA and the MOHSWwill approve TORSfor the Behavior Change
Communications (BCC) consultancy, M&Esupport to LAPCA, the contracted grant management,
support to lineministriesandthe TOR for the NGO focal point. The CCM will approve the final
TOR for the consultancy to strengthenthe engagement o fcivil society.

The establishment o fthe MOHSWHIV/AIDSDirectorate and commitment to builduponthe
existingcapacity o f LAPCA as the emerging Secretariat for the National AIDS Commission will be
essential to effective project implementation. These offices are intendedto benefit from much o fthe
technical assistance, and inthe case o fLAPCA/the NAC Secretariat, will be required to manage,
oversee and support the implementation o ftechnical assistanceon M&Eand on grant management.
Underthe HSRP, LAPCA received support for grant managementfrom Crown Agents, RSA. A
similar arrangementwill apply underthe proposedproject. However, lessons learned suggest that
the consultantsmust residewithin LAPCA inorder to operate efficiently andto transfer skills.

Support on M&Eprovided to the MOHSW will benefitand be managedby the M&E Team under the
HPSU. The consultancy on behavior change communication will reside under the new HIV/AIDS
Directorate withinthe MOHSW, although it will also work with LAPCA/the N A C Secretariat. The
long-term technical assistanceto the NDSO will reside within NDSO and liaise with the MOHSW
PharmaceuticalsDepartment, the National Laboratory and the newHIV/AIDS Secretariat.




                                                   31

Project supervision will be critical to ensuring that the aims of the project - Le., facilitating the
successful implementation o fthe GFATM-are achieved. Thus, although this is a small Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL), supervision will be substantial, as it effectively serves as supervision o f
implementation o fthe GFATM itself.




                                                    32

                Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
         LESOTHO: HIV and AIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistance Project

 Financialmanapement

 CountryFinancialIssues
A Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) for Lesotho hasnot yet beencarried out
 (projected for FY05). Basedon country experience, however, it is known that the country is
handicapped by a serious lack o fcapacity inthe areao f financial management. While there is a
 small but growing number o fqualifiedBasotho accountants, these have tendedto be attracted by
richer rewards inneighboring South Africa, thereby perpetuatingthe problem. Bank assistedprojects
 have therefore traditionally relied on outside advisors (finance, procurement, and technical) to assist
the projects intheir implementation efforts.

Lesotho has also been inthe news recently, with cases o f foreign companies convicted o f fraud and
corruption involving donor funds. The corruption situation is nowhere near rampant, but the high
profile fraud and corruption trial that has recently been concluded involved a large Bank-assisted
project inthe country. The area identifiedas most susceptible to corruption was procurement, but it
does involve finances at the end o fthe day. To mitigate this, it is recommendedthat internal controls
at the project be enhanced, and a regular procurement audit be made a formal requirement.

Summary RiskAssessment



Inherent Risk

Country                              M                        Low financial management
                                                              capacity in general. Mitigated by
                                                              use o f advisors.
ImplementingEntity                   N                        Experienced inproject
                                                              management.
 Overall Inherent Risk               N t o M

 ControlRisk

ImplementingEntity                   N                        Internalcontrol framework for the
                                                              PAUwell established. Adequately
                                                              supported by up to date procedures
I                                                             manuals.
                                                              Banking system that has worked
Funds                              I N                        for existing Bank supported
                                                              projects inplace.
Staffing                             N                        Enoughqualified staffhandling
                                                              project financial matters at PAU.
                                                              May need additional training on
                                                              Bank procedures   .


                                                    33

  Accounting Policies and          IN                      Upto datemanuals atthe PAU,
  Procedures                       I                       already customized for the Global
                                                           Fundactivities.
  InternalAudit                      Nto M                 Newly establishedIA department
                                                            intheAccountant General's office
                                                            covering all ministries. Have
                                                            startedworking on donor unit o f
                                                            MOHSW. Ministryconsidering
                                                            establishment o fown in-house
                                                            unit.
  External Audit                     N                      Current audit outsourced to Ernst
                                                            and Young on terms satisfactory to
                                                            the Bank.
  Financial Reporting and            N                      Adequate quarterly and annual
  Monitoring                                                financial and other management
                                                            reports produced bythe PAU.
                                                            FMRsalready designedbutstill to
                                                            be reviewed and finalized.
  Information Systems              I M                      Present systems earmarked for
 ~




                                                            replacement.
  Overall Control Risk             IN
1 Overall  RiskAssessment: Low                                                                 I
  1Key: H=High
           S = Substantial
           M=Moderate
           N=Negligible or low
           NIA =Not Applicable

  Assessment of the FinancialManagementSystem

  Staffing of theAccounting Function
  The finance function at the PAUinthe MOHSW has 3 Accountants, under a qualified Finance
  Manager. All three accountantshave hadtraining on Bankprocedures, and an additional accountant
  will behiredto handle directly the issuesrelatingto the GFATM. Additional training on Bank
  procedureswill obviously be requiredto enhanceproficiency in accounting for the grant funds, for
  boththe existingstaff and the newperson to be recruited

  Internal Controlsincludingpoliciesand procedures
  The PAUhas an establishedaccounting proceduresmanual which hasbeencustomized to include the
  operations o fthe new project. This means that the project hastaken the necessary steps to ensure
  that it complies with the relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02). The requirements include the needto
  establish internal controls and proper accounting procedures, which are documented inan
  Operational Manual. The Manual should include general administrative procedures, financial
  managementprocedures, staffing requirements, identificationo faccounting and auditing standardsto
  be adheredto by the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures
  for banking, and procedures for the management o fcash.


                                                    34

The basis ofaccountingisthe cashbasis, per GovernmentofLesotho regulations.

RecordKeeping
The currentrecordkeepindfilingsystem was found to be satisfactory. Particularattentionwill
howeverneedto betaken inthe maintenanceandtimely updatingofthe FixedAssets Register.

ContractsManagement is currentlybasedon a spreadsheet recorddetailingall contractsawarded,
amountso fthe contracts, and existingunfulfilledcommitments. Controlswill be requiredover the
awardingof contracts, as well asto ensurethat paymentsare madeonly for certifiedwork. Some
form ofContractStatus Reportwill bepreparedquarterlyas partofthe FMRs.

InternalAudit
The AccountantGeneralhas establishedan internalaudit department which hasresponsibilityfor the
internalaudit ofall government ministries.Ithasalready started workingon the donor accounting
sectionofthe Ministryof Health. The unit is headedby a retiredmember ofthe Accountant
General's staff, andhas sometrainedauditors.Its effectivenesswill however be measuredwithtime.

The MOHSW is itselfintendingto create an in-house Internal Audit unit. This is however still on the
drawingtable, andmaynot materializeduringthe life o fthe project.

The internalaudit function, ifavailable, would complimentphysicalprojectmonitoringefforts.

FinancialReportingand Monitoring

Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
The PAUwill be responsiblefor designingthe appropriateFinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs) and
producingthem on a quarterly basis. Formats of these were agreed at negotiations, and the FMRs
include:
0  The SpecialAccount Activity Statement
0  Summary SA Exp for Contractsrequiringprior review
0  Summary SA Exp for Contractsnotrequiringpriorreview
0  Sources andUses ofFundsby Category
0  Sources andUses ofFundsbyProjectComponent
0  Projectprogressreporting
0  Procurement reports

Budgetingand Planning

BudgetingSystem
The MOHSWis already onthe MTEFdrivenbudgetingprocess. The new funds will be includedin
this processonce available.

ComputerizedAccounting Systems
The PAUis currentlyon a credibleMicrosoft Access drivensystem. This is however not an
accountingsystem by definitionandhas several inherentweaknesses. Theprojecthas already started
effortsto identifya modernreplacement system that will allow safe multipleaccess from botha wide
or local area network.


                                                 35

External Audit Arrangements
MOHSW is subjectto audit bythe Auditor General (AG) ofLesotho. Lesotho law, however, allows
the AG to subcontract some ofher work where, inher opinion, it is prudentto do so. The current
audit hastherefore beenoutsourcedto ErnstandYoung. Any modificationsto the existingaudit
terms ofreference to incorporatethe new projectwill needto be onterms that are acceptable to the
Bank.

Auditedfinancial statements for the projectwill needto be submittedto the Bankwithin six months
ofthe end o fthe financial year, accompaniedby a detailedaudit comments(management) letter.

Conclusion
The proposed financialmanagementarrangementsfor the projectmeetthe Bank'sminimum
requirementsfor financialmanagement.

FinancialManapementActionPlan
    ..
While not conditionsof effectiveness, the followingtime boundactions needto be completedinthe
timefkames indicatedfor smoother projectimplementation:
        Completethe hiringofthe additionalAccountant for the GFATM(at thetime ofthe second
        GlobalFundDisbursements).
        Demonstrateability to produce the agreedFMRs(at the time ofthe initialadvance).
        Acquirehnstallnewaccountingsoftware(six months after effectiveness).

FinancialCovenantsand SuDervisionPlan
The followingcovenantsrelateto financialmatters and form part ofthe DGA:
    0   The Government will cause MOHSW (PAU) to have itsrecords, accounts and financial
        statementsauditedeachyear, commencingwith the accounts for the year endingMarch
        2005.
    0   PAUwill submit separate quarterlyFMRs, startingwith the first quarterafter effectiveness.

SupervisionPlan
The reportso fthe progress ofproject implementationwill bemonitoredindetailduringsupervision
missions. FMRswill be reviewedona quarterlybasis bythe field-basedFMSandthe resultsor
issues followedupduringthe supervisionmissions. The project's audit reportswill be reviewedand
issues identifiedwill be followedup. The field basedFMSwill monitorthe agreedactionplanto
ensure appropriateactions have beenimplementedbythe project.

DisbursementandFlow of Funds

Flow of Funds
The project is expectedto operate one U S Dollar SpecialAccount for allprojectcomponents,
includingthose implementedbythe MFDP.

The Special Accountwill beheldat the CentralBankof Lesotho,which is acceptableto the Bank,
andmanagedbythe PAU, with some MFDP signatories. The PAUwill have a local currency
(maloti) projectaccount for processingpayments inlocalcurrency.




                                                 36

Disbursement
Disbursements from the loanwill bemade initiallybasedontraditionaldisbursement methods (i.e.,
from the SpecialAccountwith reimbursementsmadebasedon Statements o fExpenditures- SOEs),
with documentationretainedat the PAU, as well as direct payments from the LoanAccount where
appropriate, and Special Commitments, ifrequired.FMRsproducedwill essentiallybe a reporting
tool untilsuchtimethat the qualityofreportingis deemedsuficiently highto supportreport-based
disbursements.

RetroactiveFinancing
Disbursementsmadeafter April 30,2004 for consultantservices are eligible for retroactivefinancing
upto US$150,000.

Direct Payments
This methodwill be usedwhenthere is needto pay a thirdpartyfor goods and services supplied, but
the amountto bepaidis higherthan canbe reasonably sustainedbythe Special Account. There
shouldgenerallynotbetoo many ofthese `direct' payments, butwhen they do occur, the following
details needto be suppliedto the Disbursement Office:
    -
    ---- Nameandaddress ofthethirdpartyto whom payment will be made.
         Briefdescriptionofthe goodshervicessupplied.
         Category o fexpenditure.
         Eligibility Percentage.
         Supplier'sbankingdetails.

Special Commitments
This methodrefers to a situationwhere, insteadofwithdrawingfinds from the LoanAccount, the
borrowercanrequest, andbymutualagreement, the Bankcan enter into a SpecialCommitment in
writing, to pay for certainexpenditures to be financedout ofthe loan. SpecialCommitmentsare
usuallyissuedto cover lettersofcredit, andto haveaccessto this methodofdisbursement, the
recipienthasto makea formal requestthereofduringnegotiations.

SOEReplenishment Method
Thismethodwill be usedwhere paymentsto thirdpartieshavebeenmadeout ofthe Special
Account, andthe replenishmentsare usedto restorethe Special Account advance to itsoriginal level.

                                TableC: Allocation ofGrantProceeds

        ExpenditureCategory          Amount inUS$ million               FinancingPercentage
Civil Works                                        0.50           90% of local expenditures
                                                                  100%offoreign expenditures
Consultants'services, including                    3.90           90% of local expenditures and
audit andtraining                                                 100% of foreign expenditures for
                                                                  consultantsincludingaudit, and
                                                                  100%oftraining
Goods                                              0.30           90% of local expenditures
                                                                  100%o fforeign expenditures
Operatingcosts                                     0.10           90%
Unallocated                                        0.20
              TotalProjectCosts                    5.00


                                                  37

                               Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
        LESOTHO:HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistance Project


General
The CountryProcurement Assessment Report(CPAR) for Lesothowas carriedout in 1997. Apart
from increasingthe CentralTender Board(CTB) prior reviewthresholdfrom M10,OOO (about US$
1,500) to M30,000 (about US$ 5,000), there is no implementationprogressonthe above
recommendations. This meansthat the status ofpublicprocurementsystem isthe same as in 1997
when the CPAR was carriedout. The CPAR recommendedseveralactions to betaken bythe
Governmentto makethe nationalprocurement systems moreeconomic, efficient, transparent, and
accountable. Key recommendationsas a resultof 1997CPAR included, inter alia;
    the Government ofLesotho(GOL) to prepare a comprehensiveprocurementlawbasedonthe
    UnitedNationsCommissionandInternationalTrade andLaw(UNICETRAL) modeland
    Regulations;
0   to raise substantiallythe CTBprior reviewthresholds;
    to restructure,realignand strengthenthe CTB to support the work of lineministries;
0   the GOLto carryout a study on a costbenefitanalysis ofprocurementdecentralization;and
0   the GOLto restructurethe Government Stores, the Government Printers,andPlanned, Vehicle
    PoolServices that seem to be Government monopoliesas sole supplier or buyingagents.

Use of Bank Guidelines
Civilworks and goods for the proposedprojectwill beprocuredinaccordancewith the "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRDLoans andIDA Credits" datedMay 2004; andthe provisionsstipulatedin
the DevelopmentGrantAgreement. Allprocuremento fconsultantserviceswill be done in
accordancewith "Guidelines: SelectionandEmployment of Consultantsby the WorldBank
Recipients" datedMay 2004 andthe provisionsstipulatedinthe DevelopmentGrantAgreement.
Bank's StandardRequestfor Proposalsand evaluationformswill be usedwhere applicable. The
general descriptiono fvarious itemsunder different expenditurecategory are described below. For
each contractto be financedbythe Grant, the differentprocurementmethods or consultantselection
methods, the needfor pre-qualification,estimated costs, prior reviewrequirements, andtime frame
are agreedbetweenthe Recipientandthe Bankprojectteam inthe Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Planwill beupdatedat least annuallyor as requiredto reflectthe actualproject
implementationneeds and improvementsinstitutionalcapacity.

ProcurementManual
Procurementproceduresare detailedinthe Procurementthat was preparedunder the HealthSector
ReformProject(HSRP). The Government hasrevisedthis Manualby incorporatingBank's
commentsof2003 and will be used for procurementofworks, goods, and consultantsunderthis
project.




                                                38

ProcurementMethods

Procurementof Works: Works procuredunder this project would include construction o fNDSO
Warehouse, offices and associatedworks. The procurement will be done usingthe Bank's Standard
BiddingDocuments (SBDs)and StandardBidEvaluation Forms for works and goods for all ICB.
Since the Government does not have national StandardBidding Documents for procurement o f
works, the Government may use the same Bank's SBDs for procurement o fworks underNational
Competitive Bidding(NCB).

Procurementof Goods: The agreedprocurement plancoversthe first 18 msnthsofthe project.
Goods procured under this project would include computers, printers, scanners, accounting software,
motor vehicles, office furniture, and office equipment. The procurement will be done using Bank's
StandardBidding Documents (SBDs) and StandardBidEvaluation Forms for works and goods for
all ICB. Since the Government does not have national StandardBiddingDocuments for procurement
o f goods, the Government may use the same Bank's SBDs for procurement o fgoods under National
Competitive Bidding(NCB). Contracts for these goods and other small quantities o foffice supplies
and consumable materials, which are available locally at economical prices would be procured
through national shopping proceduresbasedon price quotations obtained from at leastthree reliable
suppliers. Subsequentto the period covered by the current procurement plan, Limited International
Biddingmay be usedifagreedas an appropriate method inIDA's review o ffuture procurement
plans.

Selectionof Consultants: The consultancy servicesrequiredwould cover Technical Assistance to
MFDP, monitoringand evaluation TA, procurement specialists, an informationeducation and
communication expert, design and supervision o f construction o fNDSOwarehouse and offices,
NGOs, etc. All consulting servicescontracts costing morethan US$ 100,000 equivalent for firms
will be awardedthrough Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Short lists o f
consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o fnational consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe
Consultant Guidelines. Consulting services contracts estimated to cost lessthan US$ 100,000 for
firms may be awardedthrough Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) method. Consulting services
contracts for appointment o fconsulting firms to conduct leadership training will be awarded through
Quality Based Selection (QBS) method. Selection o fNGOs will be carried out inaccordancewith
the provisions ofparagraph 3.16 ofthe Guidelines. All servicesofindividualconsultants will be
procured under individual contracts inaccordance with provisions o fparagraphs 5.1 to 5.3 o fthe
Guidelines. Subsequentto the period covered bythe current procurement plan, Selection Under a
FixedBudget, Least Cost Selection and/or Single Source Selection mightbe used ifagreedas an
appropriate method in IDA's review o f future procurement plans.

OperatingCosts:Operating costs, which would be financed under the project would beprocured
usingthe Government's procurement systems acceptableto the Bank.

ImplementationArranpements
MOHSWwill bethe ImplementingAgency o fthis Technical Assistance project. Thisproposed
project will provide US$5 million equivalent o fIDA grant financing to support the implementation
o factivities financed by the Global Fundfor HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM).
Beneficiaries to this project include: Ministry o f Finance and Development Planning(MFDP);
MOHSW; NationalDrugsand SuppliesOrganization (NDSO); Lesotho AIDS Prevention and
Control Authority (LAPCA); and civil society. -TheProcurement Unit (PU) o fthe MOHSW which is


                                                    39

also responsible for day to day procurement o fthe ongoing Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP)
will be responsible for procurement ofthisproject. Besides, the PUwill be responsible for
procurement o fnon-medical goods for GFATM(estimated value o fGFATMaward is US$34
million). The PUis under the Director ofHealth Planning and Statistics Unit-the overall
coordinator o fthe HSRP.

ProcurementCaDacitv Assessment
Procurement Unit (PU): The MOHSW has a procurement unit under the Director o fthe Health
Planning and Statistics Unit that is responsible for day to day procurement o fongoing HSRP, which
is funded by IDA, ADB, EU, and Development Corporation Ireland. Currently this unit i s not
responsible for procurement o fcontracts financed by the Government's own budget. The Stores
Department o fthe MOHSW is responsible for procurement o fgoods financed by Government's
budget, The heado fthe PUis the Procurement Manager (PM), who came on board March 15,2004.
The P Mreports directly to the Director o fthe Health Planning and Statistics Unit and is assistedby 2
Procurement Officers (POs). The PMis a qualified Quantity Surveyor and has adequateprocurement
experience. H e has beendoing procurement since 1995. He has worked as a procurement expertto
several IDA-fundedprojects. He has also attendedIDA procurement courses including one inTurin.
The 2 POs are also consideredto have adequateprocurement experience. One PO has an advanced
Diploma inBusinessManagement and has beenwith the project since 2001. She has attended
procurement courses organized by ESAMI. She will be on a year's study leave beginning January
2005. Another PO is a licensed Accountant and has beendoing procurement since 1996. She
worked as a procurement officer with the Ministry o fEducation for 4 years. Shejoined the project 2
years ago.

The MOHSW has a civil works technical departmentthat provides technical support to the PUwith
regardto civil works contracts. It also supervises the execution o f civilworks contracts. The
department was involved inimplementation o fthe HealthIV project that was supported by ADB and
mainly covered civil works activities -construction and rehabilitation o frural clinics. Underthe
Technical Assistance Project, the civil works technical department will continue supporting and
providingtechnical back stopping to PUfor the implementation o fcivil works activities. The
department is staffed with following qualifiedpeople: 2 Civil Engineers; 2 Architects; 2 Quantity
Surveyors; 1ElectricalEngineer; and 2 Clerks o f Work.

 CTB and ProcurementLevels: Accordingto the existingprocurement Regulations, CTB is the
 authority for awarding a contract o fvalue M30,OOO (about US$5,000 equivalent). This threshold
 was revised inNovember 2003 from the previous threshold o fM10,000 (about US$ 1,500
 equivalent). The CTB does not review draft biddingdocuments or RFPs regardless o fthe value o f
the contract. Apart from handling procurement o fthe central government, the CTB also handlesthe
procurements done bythe districts -Lesotho has 10 districts. The current CTB secretariat is staffed
 by 3 people. Two o fthem are procurement proficient. The Board is constituted by 6 members from:
 MinistryofEducation (1); Ministryo fWorks and Transport (2); MinistryofAgriculture (1);
 MinistryofTrade, IndustryandMarketing(1); andLesotho RevenueAuthority (1). The Chairman
 o fthe Board i s from the Ministryo fFinance and Development Planning. Despite revisiono fthe
 prior review thresholds upwards, almost every contract beingprocessedbythe MOHSW seems to
 passthrough CTB because o fthe low thresholds. The current public procurement system does not
 specify formation o f a MinistryTender Board. Dueto highly centralized procurement system and
 inadequatecapacity o fCTB, award o fcontracts is considered to be a source o fprocurement delays.
 According to MOHSW's experience, an International Competitive Bidding(ICB) contract may take



                                                    40

about 6 -9 months from preparationofbiddingdocumentsupto awardedstage. There is a needfor
the GOLto implementthe 1997CPARrecommendationsinorder to mitigatesuchproblems.

Record-keepingSystem: The Bankhas notconducteda ProcurementPostReview(PPR) for the
HSRP, which might havebeena good source ofcomments regardingfiling andrecordkeeping
system ofthe MOHSW. The PUkeepsthe procurement files includingcopies ofthe contracts but
seems to have difficulty inretrievinginformation. The originalcontracts are kept bythe Project
Accounts Unit (PAU) ofthe HSRP. The PAUalso is under the Directorofthe HealthPlanningand

necessary that the MOHSWhirea short term consultant-about 6 monthsduration- to reviewthe
StatisticsUnit. Inorder to improvefiling andrecordkeepingsystem ofthe PU, it was considered

system andinstalla system-manualor electronic-which wouldenable easy retrievalofthe
information.

Proposedintegrationofprocurementfunctionofthe MOHSW: As indicatedabove, currently,
the PUis responsiblefor procurementsofHSRP, which are donor-fundedcontracts. The unit does
notdo procurements of contracts financedby Government'sownbudget. This function is being
done bythe Stores department ofthe MOHSWunderthe FinancialController. Ithasbeenagreed
within the MOHSWthat the PUhandlesentireprocurementofthe MOHSW             - includingcontracts
funded by donors andthose financedbythe Government's ownbudget. This will entailadditional
work loadto the PU. Inthis respect, there will be a needto restructurethe PUto handleprocurement
functioneffectivelyandefficiently.

ProcurementPlan
The Recipient,at appraisal, developeda ProcurementPlanfor projectimplementationwhich
providesthe basis for the procurementmethods. The planhas beenagreedbetweenthe Recipient
andthe ProjectTeam onMay 7,2004 and is availableat the MOHSW. Itwill also be availableinthe
Project's database inthe Bank's externalwebsite. The ProcurementPlanwill be updatedin
agreement with the ProjectTeam annuallyor as requiredto reflectthe actualprojectimplementation
needsand improvementsinthe institutionalcapacity.




                                                41

                            Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$millionequivalent)

                                                       ProcurementMethod'
  ExpenditureCategory                 ICB               NCB               Othe?             N.B.F.           Total Cost
1. Works                            525,000               0.00               0.00             0.00             525,000
                                  (500,000)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)          (500,000)
2. Goods                            151,000           110,000              59,000             0.00             320,000
                                  (141,000)         (100,000)             (59,000)           (0.00)           (300,000)
3. Services                              0.00             0.00         3,900,000              0.00           3,900,000
                                        (0.00)          (0.00)        (3,900,000)            (0.00)         (3,900,000)
4. OperatingExpenses                     0.00             0.00            100,000             0.00             100,000
                                        (0.00)          (0.00)          (100,000)            (0.00)           (100,000)
5. Unallocated                           0.00             0.00            200,000             0.00             200,000

                       Total        676,000            110,000          4,259,000             0.00            5,045,000
                                  (641,000)           (100,000)        (4,259,000)           (0.00)          (5,000,000)

'Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the {Loan/Credit/Trust Fund}. All costs include contingencies.
*Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f contracted staff
o fthe project management office, training, technical assistanceservices, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii)
                             re-lending project funds to local government units.

                      Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods andPrior Review'

                                              Contract Value             n                       ContractsSubject to
       ExpenditureCategory                      Threshold                rrocurement                 Prior Review
                                                   (US$)                    Method                  (US$ millions)
1. Works                                    200,000 and above                    ICB                       All
                                           Less than 200,000                    NCB                 None (E-Post)
2. Goods                                    150,000 andabove                     ICB                       All
                                           Less than 150,000                    NCB                None (Ex-Post)
                                           Upto 30,000                    Shopping                 None (Ex-Post)
3. Consultants(firms)                       100,000 and above                 QCBS                          All
                                           Less than 100,000                      CQ               None (Ex-Post)
4. Consultants(individual)                   50,000 and above                      IC                      All
                                           Less than 50,000                        IC              None (Ex-Post)
5. Training                                 100,000 and above                   QBS                         All
                                           Less than 100,000                    QBS                None (Ex-Post)
                               Total Value of ContractsSubjectto Prior Review:

                                  Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment: High

Frequency of Procurement Supervision
Inadditionto the prior review supervisionto be carriedout from Bank offices, the capacity
assessmentofthe ImplementingAgency has recommendedonce every 6 months (includes special




                                                             42

procurementsupervisionfor post-review/audits)supervisionmissionsto visit the fieldto carry out
post reviewo fthe procurement action.

Action Planfor Mitigatingthe HighProcurementRisk
                           Action
Submit draft final ProcurementPlanfor Bank's review.
SubmitrevisedProcurementManualtakingintoaccount
                                        -
Bank's comments ofJuly 23,2003.
Submitthe GeneralProcurementNotice(GPN) for Bank's          I
                                                            ByNegotiations MOHSWPU
review.
Hire a consultantto review,design, and establishadequate    ByEffectiveness MOHSW/PU
filing andrecordkeepingsystems andcarryout trainingin
contractadministrationand contractdisputes handling.-
Initially recruit one morePOto enhancecapacity ofthe PU.     ByEffectiveness MOHSWPU
Assign a secretary to the PUto off loadsome ofsecretarial    ByEffectiveness MOHSW/
duties from the POsandPM.                                                        HPSU
Restructurethe PUto do procurementsofbothdonor fbnded       DuringProject        MOHSW/
contractsandthose financedbyGovernment own budget.           implementation      HPSU
Train PUstaffto updatetheir skills.                          DuringProject       MOHSW/IDA
                                                             implantation-
                                                             On going
                                                             activitv




                                               43

                                Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
          LESOTHO:HJY andAIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistance Project


The economic impactofHIV AIDS hasbeenwidely recognizedinbothlow-incomeandmiddle-
income countries. The estimates ofthe macroeconomic costs ofAIDS inAfricancountrieswhere the
epidemichas beensevererange between0.3 and 1.5 percent ofGDPannually. While specific
analysis ofthe macro-economicimpactofHIV and AIDS inLesothohas notbeenconducted, the
impacto fthe epidemic, inview o fthe highprevalenceofthe disease, increasedvulnerabilityofthe
migrantminersreturningfrom SouthAfrica, andrelativelysmallpoolofhumancapital, is likelyto
be high.

HIV/AIDSaffectsthe mostproductivesectors ofthe population;youngadultswho are beginningto
contributeto the economy. Highadultmortalityas a resultofthe epidemicwouldmakehouseholds
more vulnerable, stretchfamily and communitycopingmechanismsand leadto deterioratingliving
standards andperpetualpoverty. The disease alsoweakensthe mechanismthroughwhich
knowledgeandabilitiesare transmittedfrom one generation to the nextby killingparents and leaving
the childreno fitsvictims without one or bothparentsto love, raise andeducate them. HIV/AIDS
increasesthe risk and spread of other communicable diseases such as Tuberculosis inthe larger
populationthus expressinga negativeexternality. A recentstud? usingan overlappinggenerations
modelappliedto SouthAfrica foundthat inthe absence ofAIDS, economic growthis likelyto be
modest with universalandcomplete educationattainedwithinthree generations. Without addressing
the spreadofAIDS, however, the study foundthe "a completeeconomic collapse" will occur within
three generations.

FightingHIV/AIDSbypromotingbehaviorchangeto reducetransmissionand improvingaccess to
care and support for those infectedandaffectedis centralto any efforttowards povertyreductionina
countrywith highHIVprevalence, suchas Lesotho. Thisprojectwill provideassistancetowards
implementationofinterventionsfor HIV preventionand impactmitigationfocusingon vulnerable
groups and usingthe GFATMapprovedresources. As a result ofthe nature ofthe design ofthe
project, the netpresent value ofthe specific investmentcannot beadequately representedin financial
terms. Severalbenefitswill accrueto the nation from controllingthe HIV/AIDSepidemic and
mitigatingits impact. Economicproductivitywill be enhanced ifthe populationis healthier and free
ofHIV/AIDS. Householdswill bemore likely to generate andpreservewealthwhen the scourge of
HIV/AIDS is eliminatedor mitigated.

The proposedprojectwill only finance technicalassistance, limitedgoods to supportinstitutionsand
the expansion ofthe warehouse at the NationalDrugand Supplyorganization. The inputsbeing
financedare time-limitedand shouldnot generate additionalrecurrentcosts. The total financing is
limitedto US$ Smillion.

The projectshouldimprovethe efficiencyo fpublic expenditureby strengtheningimplementation
capacity, by improvingprocurementprocedures inorder to obtainbettervalue for money, andby
outsourcingimplementationto civil society. The projectis expectedto enableLesothoto mobilize


  The Long-runEconomicCosts o f AIDS: Theory and an Applicationto South Africa, by CliveBell, ShantayananDevarajanandHans
Gersbach, June 2003.


                                                          44

additional financing for HIV/AIDS.GFATMfinancing is not subject to economic and financial
analysis. The engagement o fthe Bank through the proposedproject should facilitate a more robust
consideration o fthe existing GFATMand other potential financing. Particular concernsrelate to
sustainability o f financing for treatment. The proposedproject is intendedto help ensure sustained
financing (through improvedutilization o fresources), and TA financed under the project will help
ensure that the national program employs cost-effective standards.




                                                   45

                                   Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
       LESOTHO: HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistanceProject

EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP 4.01): The project hasbeenclassified as Category C with
regardsto Bank's environmental and social safeguardspolicies. Being a technical assistanceand
capacity project, its activities are almost entirely innocuous and would not trigger any safeguards
assessment.




                                                      46

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
         LESOTHO: HIV and AIDS CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                   Planned                     Actual
PCNreview                                          1I19l2004                 1/30/2004
InitialPIDto PIC                                   1/22/2004                 1/26/2004
Initial ISDSto PIC                                 1/22/2004                 1/30/2004
Appraisal                                         5/04/2004                  5/04/2004
Negotiations                                      511ol2004                  5/10/2004
BoardIRVP approval                                611712004                  611712004
Planneddate ofeffectiveness                       713ol2004
Planneddate ofmid-term review                     613012006
Plannedclosingdate                                12/31/2008

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationofthe project: Public Debt ManagementOffice ofthe
Ministry ofFinance and DevelopmentPlanning, Ministry ofHealth and Social Welfare and Lesotho
HIV/AIDS ProgramCoordinatingAuthority (LAPCA).



Bankstaffandconsultantswho worked onthe project included:

Name                                        Title                             Unit
Julie McLaughlin           Sr. Health Specialist                             AFHTl
MuhammadPate               Health Specialist                                 AFHTl
SheilaDutta                Sr. Health Specialist                            AFRHV
Andrew Follmer             OperationsOfficer                                 AFTHl
EdmundMotseki              OperationsOfficer                                 AFCOl
JonathanNyamukapa          Financial ManagementSpecialist                    AFTFM
PascalTegwa                Sr. Procurement Specialist                        AFTPC
T. Mpoy Kamulayi           LeadCounsel                                       LEGAF
Helen Tadesse              Team Assistant                                    AFTHl


Bank funds expended to date onproject preparation:
    1. Bankresources: $70,868
    2. Trust funds:O
    3. Total: $70,868

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval: $16,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: $150,000




                                                 47

                          Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
       LESOTHO: HIV and AIDS CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistance Project

StrengtheningPreventionand Control of HIV/AIDS in Lesotho,ProposalSubmittedto the Global
Fundto FightAIDS, TuberculosisandMalaria, September 2002.

ProgramGrantAgreementbetweenthe GlobalFundto FightAIDS, TB andMalariaandthe MFDP
of the Governmentofthe Kingdomo fLesotho, LSO-202-G01-H-00,November 1,2003.

OperationsManualfor the GlobalFund, November 2003.

Turninga Crisis into an Opportunity: Strategiesfor Scaling up the National Response to the
HIV/AIDSPandemic in Lesotho,2003, Partnership o fthe Governmento fthe Kingdomo fLesotho
andthe ExpandedTheme Group on HIV/AIDS.

Reportofthe PreliminaryVisit for the GFATMProcurement and SupplyManagementAssessment
of Lesotho,LocalFundAgent PricewaterhouseCoopers,June 2003.

IDA HIV/AIDSTA ProjectProcurementPlan, May2004.

Backto OfficeReportandAide Memoire:Pre-AppraisalMission,February 18,2004.

Backto OfficeReportandAide Memoire:AppraisalMission, May 7,2004.

MinutesofDecisionMeeting, April 27, 2004.




                                                48

                                              Annex 13: StatementofLoansand Credits
                  LESOTHO: HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                                                                                               Differencebetween
                                                                                                                               expectedand actual
                                                                     OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                                disbursements
ProjectID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO81269     2004   ESDPI1(Phase 2)                                  0.00     21.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     21.81      1.81        0.00
PO52367     2002   MALOTI-DRAKENSBERG CONSERV. &                    0.00     0.00      0.00      7.32      0.00      7.90      2.32        0.00
                   DEVELOP.
PO70673     2001   Utilities Sector ReformProject                   0.00     28.60     0.00      0.00      0.00     19.49      8.39        0.00
PO53200     2000   HealthSector Reform                              0.00     6.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.06      2.37         0.46
PO01409     1998   HILAND WATERIB                                  45.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      9.00     15.64      19.98        1.14
                                                         Total:    45.00     56.10     0.00      7.32      9.00     67.90      34.87        7.60




                                                                    LESOTHO
                                                            STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                            InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                                     Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                                   IFC                                         IFC
        FY Approval    Company                         Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.  Loan         Equity      Quasi      Partic




                                     Total portfolio:  0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00




                                                                                   ApprovalsPending Commitment
                        FY Approval       Company                            Loan        Equity       Quasi        Partic.




                                                 Total pendingcommitment:     0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00




                                                                          49

                                                  Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
            LESOTHO:HIV andAIDS CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistanceProject
                                                                Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan    Low-
                                                     Lesotho   Africa  income        Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                             2.1    688     2,495                  Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                          480     450      430
GNI(At/as mefhod, US$ billions)                                                                        T
                                                          tW      306     1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                              15      2.4       1.9
Laborforce (%)                                             18      2.5      2.3                                       Gross
                                                                                                                     primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                             capita
Poverty (%of populationbelownattonalpoveftyline)
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                      29      33        30
Lifeexpectancyat birth(pars)                               43      46        59                        I
Infantmortality (per lO00livebrfths)                       92      a5        81
Childmainutntion (%ofchiIdrenunder5)                       18                             Access to improvedwatersource
Access to animprovedwater source (%ofpopulation)           78      58        78
Illiteracy(%ofpopulation age 69                            18      37        37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of schooI-agepopulation)         115     86        95            -Lesotho
   Male                                                    19      92       a 3             . -Lowincomegroup
   Female                                                  18      80        87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1982     1992    2001    zoo2
                                                                                      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               0.40     082     0.76     0.78
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                    43.5     46.8    40 2     37.2
Emortsof goods and serviceslGDP                  158      8.1     436      60.8                      Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                      -635     -55.2   -M.6      -9.1
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                        483      9 9     24 3     25.2
Currentaccount balancelGDP                        5.5      4.5    -15.0   - a 7
Interestpayments/GDP                                       18      2.7      2.7
Total debt/GDP                                            80.5    98.1     818
Totaldebt servicelexports                           ....   4.6     tt6      91)                         i
Present value of debtlGDP                                         53.2
Present value of debtlexports                                     74.2                             Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02      2001   2002 2002-08
(average annualgronth)
GDP                                       5.6     3.3      3.2     4.0      4.3             -Lesotho

GDP percapita                             3.4     1.4      18      2.7      2.9             ...___ Lowincome g m u ~

                                       ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                    I
                                                1982     1992    2001               1 Growth of  investment and GDP ( W )
(%of GDP)                                                                                                                   I
Agriculture                                      23.5     V.7      18.5     8.3       'O

Industry                                         272      40.0    415      42.4
  Manufacturing                                   7.7      7.6     0.0       0.0
Services                                         49.3     42.3    39.9     39.4      -10

Privateconsumption                              137.6    97.9     82.5     78.5     .20 1
Generalgovemmentconsumption                      25.9     27.3     32.1    1a.o
                                                                           33.6
Imports of goods andsewices                     P2.8      ao.1    98.4                         -GDI           -GDP


                                             1982-92 1992-02     2001    2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and imports (K)

Agriculture                                       2.9      3.4     2.7
Industry                                          9.0      4.0     4.5       5'7
  Manufacturing                                   0.4      5.3     7.5       8.9     40

Services                                          4.3      3.4      18       2.7     2o

Privateconsumption                                a.1     -10      3.2      -0.5
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      5.2      5.9    -6.5       7.6  -20
Gross domestic investment                       38.5      -0.2    -3.7
Imports of goods and services                    0.5       14      xl.5     -4.6
                                                                            15a              -Exports        -Imports




                                                                     50

                                                                                                        Lesotho
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                        n~
                                         1982   1992   2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                       Inflation (Oh)

(%change)
Consumer prices                            l2.1  17.2    7.1    6.7
Implicit GDP deflator                      11.5  15.4    6.3    9.5
Government finance
(%of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                  36.8   418    39.6             e7     98   90     00    0,       hl
Current budget balance                            6.6    6.4    3.3
Overallsurpius/deficit                           -8.6   -2.5    -6.1           -GDPdeflator       -CPi


TRADE
                                         I982   1992   2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                        Export and Import levels (US$ mlll.)

Totalexports (fob)                                87    286    393          T
 Clothing and othergoods                                  23    141   1,250

 Machineryandtransport equipment                           6     60
 Manufactures                                              6     51
Total imports (cif)                              896    675     718
 Food                                                            73
 Fueland energy                                                 1x)
                                                                     I                                            I
 Capital goods                                                  0 4
Egortpriceindex(S95=7JO)                                                      06   97    98   99   00

Import priceindex(Q95=?J0)                                                         .Exports       mimports
Terms of trade(SSS=WO)                                                                                   O'     O2


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992   2001   2002
(US%millions)                                                         Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services               a4    146    318    464
Imports of goods and services             494    967    722     678
Resource balance                          -430   -822   -406   -394

Net income                                 346    381    174    175
Net currenttransfers                      -242    0 3     118   P O
Current account balance                   -326   -307    -115   -99
Financingitems (net)                       334    256     101   105
Changes innet reserves                      -8     51      14    -6
M e m o :
Reserves includinggold (US$ mfllions)       48    160    407    407
Conversion rate(DEC, /ocaVUS$)              11    2.9    8.6     9.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                         Composltlon of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              495    734    638
  IBRD                                              5     58     37                       G 7
  IDA                                             $27    2 0    218                F:63      A:37

Total debt service                                 29     63     64
  IBRD                                              0      10    27
  IDA                                               2      5       5
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                  46      31    31
  Official creditors                               84      21      2
  Private creditors                                -5      -2    -3
  Foreigndirectinvestment
  Portfolio equity

World Bank program
  Commitments                                      10     29       0   A                              E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                                    15     22     26    B IDA
                                                                         -- IBRD  D other MIIiIatwd   F- Private
                                                                                      ~

  Principalrepayments                               1       9    28    C-IMF                          G-Sbrt-term




                                                            51


MAP SECTION


