Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB618 
Project Name 
HIV/AIDS Capacity Building and Technical 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (55%);Other social services (45%) 
Project ID 
P087843 
Borrower(s) 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 29, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 17, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Lesotho is among the countries worst affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic.  With an estimated 
national population of 2.1 million and adult HIV sero-prevalence of 31 percent, the country is a 
facing an unprecedented national disaster.  The key drivers of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the 
country include issues such as social vulnerability of young people and women, migrant workers 
returning from South African mines, and a continued culture of silence which does not speak 
against stigma and discrimination thus allowing for continued propagation of the epidemic.  
 
The impact of the epidemic has been severe and may continue to worsen as those who are 
currently infected become ill or die.  The burden placed on families and communities  
affected by the epidemic is heavy.  The number of orphans in Lesotho has risen to its  
highest level ever and will likely remain high or increase in the short term.  The cohesive and 
communal tradition of the Basotho is being eroded as families disintegrate and unbearable 
burden is placed on communities by the premature deaths of infected individuals.  Negative 
effects attributable to the epidemic include decreased workforce  
productivity, increased absenteeism from work and school and spiraling poverty. 
 
The response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic so far has been a tale of limited successes and huge 
missed opportunities.  The fact that the epidemic continued to rise to its current level reflects on 
a large but missed opportunity to control the spread earlier.  The tide has now begun to change as 
the national political leadership has started coming to grips with the huge challenge posed by the 
epidemic.  The Bank has supported work in HIV/AIDS since the PHNII project (which closed in 
1998).  With the help of its multi-lateral and bi-lateral partners, the Government of Lesotho has 
since become more engaged in efforts to strengthen the national response to the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic.  In 2000, the Lesotho AIDS Programme Coordinating Authority (LAPCA) was 
established and a Strategic Plan was developed and approved.  Unfortunately, LAPCA was never 
given the support required to enable it to effectively lead a response.  It has never been fully 
staffed and it has now lacked a director for 9 months. 
Page  2
 
 
 
However, in July 2003, Lesotho hosted an extraordinary meeting of SADC on HIV/AIDS, and 
recent approval by the Cabinet of a document titled “ Scaling up the fight against the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in Lesotho” reflects increased high-level attention needs to be followed up by concrete 
action.  The Cabinet’s approval of the document was accompanied by a decision to create a 
National AIDS Commission that will oversee the national response to HIV/AIDS in Lesotho.  
The Commission is envisioned to comprise appointed Commissioner and four other 
Commissioners elected by their constituents (Youth, Women, Church Groups and People Living 
with HIV/AIDS). 
 
There are several challenges to be dealt with in getting the NAC operational.  Capacity 
constraints are among the most important challenges that would limit the take off and 
effectiveness of the commission or its secretariat.  Previous institutions established to fight 
HIV/AIDS in Lesotho were crippled by inadequate capacity, unclear roles and mandates and 
difficult political environments. 
 
The central strategic question addressed by the proposed project is : how can the Bank play a 
complementary role to other partners that are supporting the Lesotho national response to 
HIV/AIDS ?  It clear that additional financial resources for implementation is not the answer and 
that implementation capacity is a cross-cutting limiting factor in Lesotho.  The project will 
complement GF and other funds by financing capacity building activities for HIV/AIDS 
interventions and providing technical assistance to manage the Global Funds implementation.  
The two alternatives considered are either to design a traditional MAP project which provides 
additional financial resources to implementers for HIV/AIDS interventions or to add a 
HIV/AIDS component in the Bank’s second phase APL support to the health sector reforms.  Of 
the two alternative options, the option of continued Bank support for HIV/AIDS through a health 
sector operation is considered too limited and would represent continuation of the current 
business as usual approach.  The option of a traditional MAP project may likely result in 
competition rather than complementarities with the other sources of funds in the short term.  In 
the longer term, the option of a traditional MAP project should always be available if resource 
constraints are demonstrated.  Ultimately, the option that was chosen by the team to complement 
implementation of HIV/AIDS activities using the available funds from GFATM and others 
brings the other areas of Bank’s comparative advantage to play – institutional experience in 
implementing MAPs and sharing of operational knowledge and expertise with partners in multi-
sector HIV/AIDS operations.  In addition the chosen option would more clearly build on the 
Bank’s experience of working through LAPCA and using a contracted firm to finance 
HIV/AIDS interventions by NGOs and public sector in Lesotho.  The project will help in the 
mitigation of the risk of failure of the Global Funds approved resources due to lack of 
implementation capacity. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The development objectives of the proposed project are to (i) increase the capacity of the 
existing executing agency for the Lesotho national HIV/AIDS program, or its replacement as 
secretariat of the proposed National HIV/AIDS Commission, to coordinate and monitor and 
evaluate the national response to HIV/AIDS; (ii) increase the capacity of public sector line 
ministries, private sector organizations, civil society and faith based organizations to mobilize 
Page  3
 
 
funds, design intervention programs and implement activities for prevention, care and impact 
mitigation. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed project will focus on capacity building and technical assistance for 
implementation.  Four project components and their indicative costs are proposed as follows :  
 
Component 1:  Increased capacity for coordination and short term technical assistance ($1.0 
million) :  This component will focus on strengthening the capacity of the Lesotho AIDS 
Prevention and Control Authority as the institution currently mandated to coordinate and monitor 
and evaluate the national response to HIV/AIDS.  The capacity built should be transferable to its 
replacement as secretariat to the National AIDS Commission once the commission becomes 
operational.  The project will build upon on an institutional assessment of LAPCA to be financed 
by DFID and will finance training, workshops, equipments and materials to enable the authority 
or its replacement perform coordinating and M&E function for the national program.  The 
capacity of the district AIDS task forces will also be strengthened to improve coordination at the 
district and sub-district levels.  This component of the project will also support the engagement 
of an experienced firm to assist the principal recipients of the Global Funds to prepare 
implementation plans, build the capacity of the implementing agencies, and provide overall 
project administration and reporting for the GF resources. 
 
Component 2 :  Increased capacity for monitoring and evaluation ($0.50 million) :  This 
component will support the development of community based, participatory monitoring and 
evaluation capacity and the development of an overall M&E system for the national program.  
The component will enable implementers at all levels to properly monitor and report on their 
activities as well as to promote learning by doing among all implementing agencies. 
 
Component 3 :  Increased public sector capacity for implementation ($1.5 million) :  This 
component will support the strengthening of implementation capacity among all public sector 
line ministries and agencies to design effective intervention programs, establish adequate 
fiduciary mechanisms and implement the activities financed by partners such as the Global 
Funds and others. 
 
Component 4 :  Increased civil society and private sector capacity for implementation ($2.0 
million) :  This component will support capacity building for facilitating and umbrella civil 
society and faith based organizations, traditional institutions at the community levels and the 
associations of people living with HIV/AIDS.  Formal and informal private sector will also be 
supported to increase their capacity to implement HIV/AIDS activities with resources provided 
through the national program. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
The project’s preparation will not involve an environmental or other safeguard assessments.  
There are no controversial aspects to the project and project risks are considered minimal. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  4
 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT .5 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
5 
 Total 
5.5 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Muhammad Ali Pate 
Title: Public Health Spec., HQ 
Tel: (202) 473-4463 
Fax:  
Email: mpate@worldbank.org
 
