                                     Document of

                                    The World Bank



                                                        Report No: ICR00001131




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-H1130)




                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
                            (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                               KINGDOM OF LESOTHO

                                        FOR A

   HIV AND AIDS CAPACITY BUILDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                     June 30, 2009




Human Development 1
Southern Africa Country Department 1
Africa Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                     Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2009
                       Currency Unit = Lesotho Maloti
                               1.00 = US$ 1.557
                            US$ 1.00 = 7.9553 LSL


                                FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1- March30


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community Based Organization
CCM      Country Coordinating Mechanism
CSO      Civil Society Organizations
GFATM    Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GFCU     Global Fund Coordination Unit
HCTA     HIV and AIDS Capacity Building and Technical Assistance Project
LAPCA    Lesotho AIDS Program Coordinating Authority
LYFe     Lesotho Youth Federation
LIRAC    Lesotho Inter-Religious AIDS Consortium
MAP      Africa Multi-Country AIDS Program
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MOFDP    Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MOHSW    Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
NAC      National AIDS Commission
NDSO     National Drugs and Supplies Organization
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAU      Project Accounting Unit
PU       Procurement Unit
TB       Tuberculosis
LCN      Lesotho Council of Non-Governmental Organizations
LENEPWHA Lesotho Network of People Living with HIV and AIDS
TRP      Technical Review Panel
                         Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                       Country Director: Ruth Kagia
                        Sector Manager: Christopher J. Thomas
                   Project Team Leader: Feng Zhao
                      ICR Team Leader: Feng Zhao
                       Principal Author: Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu

                                      KINGDOM OF LESOTHO

            HIV AND AIDS Capacity Building and Technical Assistance Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 2
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 24
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 24
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 26
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 29
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 30
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 34
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 36
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 38
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 39
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 40
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 57
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 59
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    HIV and AIDS
                                                                    Capacity Building and
Country:                Lesotho               Project Name:
                                                                    Technical Assistance
                                                                    Project
Project ID:             P087843               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H1130
ICR Date:               06/29/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:
                                                                    LESOTHO
Original Total
                        XDR 3.5M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/30/2004    Effectiveness:                          01/31/2005
Appraisal:             05/04/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/06/2004    Mid-term Review:     06/30/2006         09/25/2006
                                     Closing:             12/31/2008         12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                7                5
Health                                                         60                58
Other social services                                          23                34
Sub-national government administration                         10                 3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                 13              13
HIV/AIDS                                                         25              25
Health system performance                                        24              25
Other accountability/anti-corruption                             13              13
Participation and civic engagement                               25              24


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ruth Kagia                       Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Feng Zhao                        Julie McLaughlin
ICR Team Leader:          Feng Zhao
ICR Primary Author:       Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective is to increase the capacity of government and non-
governmental institutions responsible for the national response to HIV and AIDS to
utilize and assess the impact of funds received for HIV/AIDS.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target      Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Eighty (80) percent of the Global Fund grant has been disbursed by the end of the
                Project.

Value                                                                       87 percent

quantitative or 45 percent                 80 percent                       (US$32.25M of

Qualitative)                                                                US$34.31M Round
                                                                            -2 grant)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                   12/31/2008                       12/31/2008

Comments        The percentage of GFATM round 2 disbursements increased by 93 percent

(incl. %        between 2003 and 2008 as a result the overall rating by the GFATM improved

achievement)    from Unsatisfactory to Satisfactory making Lesotho the only country in Southern
                Africa with this rating.

Indicator 2 :   Thirty (30) percent of the Global Fund grant has been disbursed through Civil
                Society Organizations.
Value
quantitative or none                       30 percent                       47 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                   12/31/2008                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The project achieved more than 150 percent above the set target.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval        Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)    Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percent of established posts filled in the MOHSW Directorate of HIV/AIDS.
Value
(quantitative   none                       100 percent       56 percent
or Qualitative)



                                                 iii

Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2008         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was not met this was mainly due to high staf turnover and most

achievement)   positions in the BCC Unit in MOHSW were not filled.

Indicator 2 :  Percentage of posts filled in LAPCA (or its successor as Secretariat to the
               National AIDS Commission).
Value
(quantitative  none                       75 percent                        92 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator was achieved by more than 120 percent above the set target.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Fifty (50) percent of HIV/AIDS sub-projects financed through the Global Fund
               grant, have been implemented in a satisfactory manner.
Value
(quantitative  none                        50 percent                       99 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator was achieved by more than 190percent above the set target.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Annual reports on all key HIV/AIDS program indicators are produced and
               disseminated.
Value
(quantitative  none                        5                                5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was achieved fully (100) and information was used to inform

achievement)   policy and strategy development as well as for programming.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     11/29/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00

  2     05/12/2005           Moderately                Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                       0.00

  3     10/19/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.25
  4     05/08/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.42
  5     10/26/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.05
  6     05/03/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     1.73
  7     12/28/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.82
  8     05/30/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       3.58
  9     12/22/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       4.22



                                               iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

                1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal


1.      In 2003, Lesotho with a population of 2.2 million1 was one of the worst-affected
countries by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. HIV prevalence was unacceptably high at 31 percent2 of
the adult population - the third highest HIV adult prevalence rate globally after Swaziland and
Botswana. The epidemic was generalized with 330,000 adults and 27,000 children aged 0-14
years infected with HIV by 2002, the majority of the children having contracted the virus through
mother to child transmission. HIV/AIDS was the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the
country, resulting in about 90,000 orphaned children aged between 0-15 years. Traditionally at-
risk groups, such as commercial sex workers and their clients, truckers and migrant workers were
no longer the only vulnerable groups. The majority of those infected had no easily identifiable
risky behavior. The risk factors for the rapid spread of HIV infection included unprotected sex
with multiple concurrent partners, especially among young adults, but the underlying reasons
were multi-faceted, encompassing socio-cultural, behavioral, economic and biological factors.
The key drivers of the epidemic included the social vulnerability of young people (mainly as a
result of intergenerational sex and peer pressure) and women, migrant workers returning from
South African mines and a continued culture of silence which did not speak out against stigma
and discrimination. Stigma associated with the disease was high and a large proportion of those
infected were still in denial.

2.      The epidemic was firmly established in all segments of society leading to an
unprecedented national disaster. The cohesive and communal tradition of the Basotho was being
eroded as families disintegrated and unbearable burden was placed on communities due to
premature deaths. The negative effects on economic development were already being felt as a
result of decreased workforce productivity, increased absenteeism from work and school and
spiraling poverty. Compared to neighboring countries like South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and
Swaziland which all had similarly high HIV prevalence rates, Lesotho had limited national
financial and human resources to effectively tackle the epidemic, which threatened to further
undermine national development. The human resource constraint in Lesotho is a major source of
concern. Lesotho has the worst health worker to population ratio in Sub-Saharan Africa with less
than one health professional per 1,000 people.

3.      In 2000, the Government adopted a National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and National
AIDS Policy Framework. The Government embraced a broad partnership to the national response.
However, there was minimal response at the time from the Government and private sector. Very
few CSOs were engaged in HIV/AIDS, majority of whom were international NGOs, with the
exception of the Lesotho Red Cross. In 2001, the Lesotho AIDS Program Coordinating Authority
(LAPCA) was established with a mandate to coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation of
the national response. Unfortunately, LAPCA's ability to fulfill its mandate was limited by many
factors, including a lack of autonomy, its inability to recruit a full complement of staff, and the
dismissal of its Executive Director which left the institution leaderless for more than a year and
the unclear legal status of LAPCA. Similarly, the HIV/AIDS Unit under the Division of Disease




1The population of Lesotho is now 1.7 million based on the 2006 Census.
2UNAIDS 2002


                                                   2

Control in the MOHSW did not have the status required to assume the level of responsibility to
effectively lead the sector's response, despite its engagement in the fight against HIV/AIDS since
the late 1980s.

4.       In 2002, the Lesotho's proposal was successfully approved under Round 2 of the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) for a US $34 million grant ($29 million
for HIV/AIDS and $5 million for tuberculosis) to scale up its fight against HIV/AIDS and TB
over the next five years. The amount of the grant was more than the government overall annual
spending in HIV and AIDS at that time. The Principal Recipient of the GFATM resources was
the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning (MOFDP) with two sub-recipients as the
main implementing agencies: LAPCA and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW).
LAPCA and MOHSW which were the main implementing agencies under the GFATM Round 2
grant as well as responsible to channel resources to other implementing agencies such as the CSO
and the public sector.

5.       By July 2003, the country's political leadership started giving greater attention to the
HIV/AIDS crisis, and a strategy for "Scaling up the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
Lesotho" was approved, followed by a decision to create a National AIDS Commission (NAC)
that would oversee the national response to HIV/AIDS in Lesotho to replace the ineffective
LAPCA.

6.       Although the GFATM Round 2 grant was signed in October 2003, implementation was
delayed due to problems in setting up implementation arrangements. Specifically, the
restructuring of LAPCA and delay in recruitment of the Chief Executive as well as poor
understanding of procurement procedures by the user departments postponed the effectiveness of
the grant. The Lesotho's capacity to meet fiduciary requirements under the GFATM was not
given a satisfactory rating by the Local Fund Agent (LFA). In addition, the institutional capacity
of both the recipients and implementing agencies for the GFATM (within and outside
government) needed targeted support and development in order to receive, manage, disburse and
account for funds, implement effective interventions, and monitor the implementation and results
of the GFATM. It was clear that effective implementation would need substantial capacity
building and development of innovative ways to manage the grant.

Rationale for Bank Assistance:

7.       The support from the GFATM focused mainly on financing HIV/AIDS activities since
GFATM is a financier and did not provide the kind of supervision or implementation support
typically provided by the Bank or a bilateral donor. The challenges facing the Government of
Lesotho at the time was how to effectively implement the large GFATM Round-2 grant given
limited experience and capacity of the national institutions, which were still being defined at that
time. There were only a few development partners in Lesotho, and many of them were not
supporting HIV/AIDS. The Bank was seen as the only option to assist the implementation of the
GFATM Round-2 grant. This project was a result of the Bank's response to the request of the
Government and partners to provide technical and implementation support to ensure effective
implementation of the GFATM grant.

8.       It was clear that additional financial resources from the World Bank to directly support
HIV interventions were not what was most needed, but that what was necessary was targeted
support that could facilitate the effective utilization of the GFATM resources as well as leverage
additional external financing. The most compelling justification for Bank involvement was its
vast experience with project implementation and project oversight, something that is noticeably


                                                   3

absent in GFATM support. Therefore, the support to be provided both through the proposed
project and Bank supervision was designed to respond to a critical gap in implementation
capacity.

9.      The project directly supported the Government of Lesotho's priorities as set out in the
2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the Vision 2020 and the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). The main objectives of the Vision 2020 include (i) the establishment of a long term
vision for Lesotho beyond short-term plans and adjustment programs; (ii) exploring options for
economic, political and human development to the year 2020; (iii) identifying alternative
development strategies suitable for Lesotho; and, (iv) promoting open dialogue and consultation
with socio-economic groups country-wide to create an environment in which the Basotho will
actively participate in achieving the Vision. At the time of the HCTA project preparation, the
1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was 5 years old and didn't recognize the HIV/AIDS
issue. However, there was acknowledgement in the subsequent dialogue of the devastating impact
of HIV/AIDS in Lesotho and the implementation constraints faced in utilizing the Global Fund
grant. Project preparation carried out in November 2003 was therefore responsive to the country
context while still being detailed and technically robust.

10.     The Bank's 2004-06 CAS had two overarching objectives: to achieve sustainable poverty
reduction and to improve the country's competitiveness in order to support employment creation.
A basic principle behind the design of the Bank's strategy was the sufficient resources that would
be made available to Lesotho by donor partners and through direct investments if sound policies
and improved management systems were in place. Achievement of the CAS objectives was
dependent on the success of Lesotho's efforts to prevent and respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The HCTA project fit in very well with the underlying principle of the CAS in that it focused on
building capacity and would contribute to more effective mobilization of resources in Lesotho's
national response to the epidemic.

National HIV/AIDS Response:

11.     The objective of the national HIV/AIDS program in Lesotho was to control the spread of
HIV/AIDS and mitigate its impact on vulnerable groups, individuals, families, communities and
the nation as whole. GFATM support to Lesotho was aimed at supporting the scaling up of
interventions for prevention, care, treatment and impact mitigation, including the expansion of
training and education, provision of basic care to those infected and affected by the epidemic,
home based care, community mobilization and promoting civil society and public-private
partnerships in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Disbursements of the GFATM grant were based on
satisfactory performance in implementation. The HCTA project provided targeted support to
enable the recipient and implementing agencies to effectively receive, manage and assess the
impact of these funds.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

12.     The project development objective is to increase the capacity of government and non-
governmental institutions responsible for the national response to HIV/AIDS to utilize and assess
the impact of funds received for HIV/AIDS.

13.     The key project outcome indicators included: (a) Eighty (80) percent of the Global Fund




                                                 4

grant has been disbursed by the end of the Project, (b) Thirty (30) percent of the Global Fund
grant has been disbursed through civil society organizations, (c) Fifty (50) percent of HIV/AIDS
sub-projects financed through the Global Fund grant, have been implemented in a satisfactory3
manner, (d) Annual reports on all key HIV and AIDS program indicators are produced and
disseminated.

14.     Since this is a technical assistance project with a focus on supporting the implementation
of the GFATM Round 2 grant, the key performance indicators (KPIs) were output oriented and
designed to focus on the implementation status of the GFATM grant, which proved to be practical
and easy to monitor. Specifically, Indicator (a) and (b) focuses on the quantity of disbursement,
while (d) focus on reports produced rather than on the quality or impact of the disbursements or
the use of data or information from the reports for policy or program design and implementation.
KPI (c) focuses on quality.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

15.     There was no revision to the PDO and Key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.     As the project is a TA project, the beneficiaries included: (a) The Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning as the PR, (b) Secretariat for the National AIDS Commission, (c) The
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, (d) Other government agencies, (e) Civil Society
Organizations, and (f) Private sector. The ultimate beneficiaries are the people at risk of HIV or
those affected by HIV/AIDS.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1- Part A of the project: Strengthening the Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning (MOFDP) Capacity for Overall Management of External Grant Funding for HIV/AIDS
Programs.

17.     The component supported the MOFDP to discharge its fiduciary and program
management responsibilities as PR of the HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis grants from the GFATM.
The project would finance technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Coordination
Office in MOFDP to perform its oversight role under the GFATM grant agreement. In addition,
MOFDP was supported to fulfill its accountability function with regards to the money disbursed
to the sub-recipients, i.e. contracting long term technical assistance to strengthen coordination
between the PR and its sub-recipients and ensuring timely submissions of annual work programs,
approval of those work programs by the Country Coordinating Mechanism (CCM), facilitating
disbursement of funds to the sub-recipient's account, ensuring adequacy of the financial controls
and audits and timely reporting on the agreed M&E indicators to the GFATM. Specifically the
project supported:
    (a) Enhancement of MOFDP's capacity to enable it to discharge adequately fiduciary
        responsibilities vested in MOFDP regarding the use of external resources granted to the
        Recipient to support implementation of HIV and AIDS programs within Lesotho;
    (b) Carrying out training activities, including workshops and seminars aimed at enhancing
        technical expertise within MOFDP for management of external financial resources



3B1 to A grant rating: optimal performance noted up to grant performance exceeding expectations.


                                                  5

        granted by the GFATM to support the implementation of HIV and AIDS programs; and
    (c) Technical advisory services, equipment, acquisition of computers and related software,
        materials and supplies for the carrying out of the activities referred to in paragraphs 1 and
        2 above.

Component 2 - Part B of the project: Strengthening Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
(MOHSW) Capacity for Adequate Implementation of HIV/AIDS Programs.

18.     The component supported MOHSW to fulfill its role as a sub-recipient of the GFATM
resources for implementation of HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis interventions in the health sector.
Specifically, the project would support:
    (a) Acquisition of technical advisory services to be deployed within the following
        MOHSW's units to enable it to deliver on its responsibilities through: (i) technical
        assistance to establish the new HIV/AIDS Directorate, (ii) provision of equipment and
        training to the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, (iii) technical assistance to the
        Procurement Unit, (iv) strengthening of the Project Accounting Unit (PAU) with the
        provision of additional accounting staff and computers, and (v) support for leadership
        training to enhance the management capacity within the Ministry at all levels.
    (b) Enabling the National Drugs and Supplies Organization (NDSO) to fulfill its role for
        procuring and distributing health sector goods through: (i) medium term technical
        assistance to enable NDSO to conduct procurements using international competitive
        bidding, (ii) support to strengthen drug inventory management and security, (iii)
        expansion of warehousing capability of NDSO; and
    (c) Support the creation of a strong logistics system for laboratory services.

Component 3 - Part C of the project: Strengthening LAPCA's Capacity for Adequate
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of National HIV/AIDS Programs.

19.     Under this component the project was to finance engagement of a firm to provide
technical advisory services to:
    (a) Strengthen LAPCA's capacity to evaluate HIV /AIDS programs submitted through
        LAPCA for financial support to be provided by the Recipient;
    (b) Strengthen capacity for District AIDS Task Forces to monitor implementation of
        HIV/AIDS activities supported with external funding and being implemented by Civil
        Society Organizations;
    (c) Increase capacity to: (i) monitor and evaluate HIV and AIDS activities being
        implemented at the district and sub-district levels and at the community level; and (ii)
        design and implement effective strategies aimed at changing behavior related to
        HIV/AIDS; and
    (d) Support technical ministries and other relevant public sector agencies to develop and
        implement activities aimed at combating the spread of HIV/AIDS within the Recipient's
        territory.

Component 4 - Part D of the project: Strengthening Involvement of Civil Society and Private
Sector Entities in Combating the Spread of HIV/AIDS.

20.     This component was expected to support capacity building to enable civil society and
faith based organizations, traditional institutions and communities to develop viable proposals
implement such proposals and fulfill the reporting requirements for disbursements under the
GFATM agreement. The formal and informal private sector would also be supported to increase
their capacity to implement HIV/AIDS activities with resources provided through the national


                                                 6

program. Specific activities included:
    a) Formulation and implementation of programs designed to spur the involvement of civil
        society organizations and private sector entities established within the Recipient's
        territory in the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS in an adequate and sustainable
        manner; and
    b) Establishment of an adequate coordination mechanism to monitor implementation of the
        programs referred to in paragraph 1 above.

1.6 Revised Components

21.     There was no revision of the project components.

1.7 Other significant changes

22.     A number on institutional changes occurred during the life of the project. These changes
included: (a) the disbanding of LAPCA and establishment of the National AIDS Commission
(NAC) to oversee the national response to HIV/AIDS by a 2005 Act of Parliament as well as
establishment of the National AIDS Secretariat of NAC; (b) the upgrading of the HIV/AIDS Unit
under the MOHSW Disease Control Division to a fully fledged directorate that will guide the
technical aspects of the national response; (c) establishment of positions for HIV/AIDS, TB,
Data Management and Information Officers at district level; and (d) increased participation of
development partners and implementing partners in the HIV/AIDS response.

23.     Lesotho received more resources for the national response for HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis
and Health Systems Strengthening from the GFATM with seven grants totaling
US$133.71million 4 and further financial support from the US Government and CDC. The
additional available resources further accentuated the importance of the project since
implementation capacity, not money, was increasingly the binding constraint to the HIV/AIDS
response.

24.     A reallocation of funds was done in November 12, 2007 from the unallocated category to
civil works. The reallocation was justified to take into account the increase in construction costs
for the NDSO Warehouse and procurement of consultancies which were initially funded. As a
result of currency fluctuation, implementation of planned activities under the project proved to be
a challenge since most of the planning was done during the preparation stage. Most activities,
especially consultancies were not adequately budgeted for. In addition, fluctuations in the
exchange rates led to gross under-budgeting of activities especially activities requiring
implementation through consulting services as well as capital expenditures such as rehabilitation
of NDSO. This negatively affected implementation, however flexibility in reprogramming under
the project helped to move resources where they were needed.

25.     Most of these changes impacted positively on program implementation except for the
currency fluctuation. By strengthening the capacity of various institutions, a number of programs
were scaled up significantly. For example, there was rapid expansion and scaling up of
implementation of major HIV/AIDS interventions such as the number of orphans registered in
primary schools, Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMTCT), number of people
testing for HIV and receiving ART, number of people receiving Home Based Care (HBC),



4Total amounts include approved funding as at 23 June 2009.


                                                  7

workplace programs, life skill programs in schools and condom distribution (see table 1).



               2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation:
26.      During project preparation, the project team conducted a sound analysis of the financial
support to the national response and technical capacities existing in government, civil society as
well as the technical assistance needed from the development partners to the Lesotho national
HIV/AIDS response. While Lesotho was to receive substantial support from the GFATM, it did
not have sufficient implementation capacity. The extensive collaboration between various
external partners providing HIV/AIDS support during the pre-appraisal mission allowed
participation of partners based on their comparative advantages at the time. The joint mission
defined the project scope and content, and partners continued to support preparation through
contributing to the draft Terms of Reference for technical assistance consultancies. Development
Cooperation Ireland (DCI) and the UK Department for International Development (DFID)
supported institutional capacity assessments of LAPCA while WHO supported institutional
capacity assessment of the MOHSW HIV/AIDS Unit. These assessments informed the TORs for
the technical assistance provided under the project.

Design:
27.      The project design was innovative, simple and practical. The design (a TA project to
complement GFATM funding to a country) preceded the dialogue between GFATM and the
Bank to find complementary ways to work at country level -- a similar design to that under the
HCTA project is being considered. The HCTA project design is uniquely different from all other
World Bank HIV/AIDS projects. It exclusively focused on using the Bank's comparative
advantage to complement the GFATM grants. The innovative design reflected a new partnership
model which was never done before in the Bank and has been considered as an exemplary model
both inside and outside the Bank. The project team was strategic in that they adapted the project
design to the country situation.

28.     The HCTA was a technical assistance grant with a medium-term focus to finance services,
training, and goods in support of implementation of HIV/AIDS interventions to facilitate use of
financial resources from the GFATM as well as to respond to Lesotho's peculiar human resource
challenge. As a result, the project was designed to strengthen institutional capacity, address
critical gaps in implementing capacity in government and civil society and provide technical
support for implementation of external financial support to the country. However, the project
design did not take into consideration the human resource attrition as a result of poor conditions
of service and hence did not assess the human resource challenges in relation to retention of staff
although this was beyond the scope of the project.

29.      The development of the HCTA project took into consideration lessons learnt and
experiences from Bank-supported projects in Lesotho such as the Second Population, Health and
Nutrition Project that supported the establishment of the MOHSW HIV/AIDS Unit, and the
Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP) Phase I- a health, nutrition and population project
approved in June 2000. The HSRP phase 1 identified the needs within civil society for additional
skills in HIV/AIDS project design, proposal writing, and performance monitoring and accounting,
as well as supporting an assessment of pharmaceutical management. The results of these


                                                 8

assessments informed the HCTA project design. The project team also included examples and
experiences from the region that assisted the government in clarifying implementation
arrangements and responsibilities under the GFATM program.

30.      However, the preparation and design of the HCTA project did not do a critical analysis of
the TB program despite the fact that the financial support from the GFATM under Round 2 had a
TB component including the recognized synergies between TB and HIV/AIDS, and that TB at the
time was a major public health problem in Lesotho. In spite of this omission, the project team
provided support and monitored implementation progress of the TB program during supervision
missions. Subsequently, the TB program benefitted from technical assistance from the USAID-
funded University Research Company (URC) Quality Assurance Project (QAP) and the Centers
for Disease Control (CDC).

Organization:
31.      The implementing arrangements of the HCTA project were practical, which was aligned
with the implementation arrangements of the GFATM grant. The project used and built capacity
of existing structures and capacities within the Principle Recipient, the GFCU, in the MOFDP and
the two sub-recipients, NAC and MOHSW. For example, GFCU was the implementing agency
for the project. The GFCU was also responsible for overseeing both HCTA project and GFATM
implementation and monitoring. The Project Accounting Unit (PAU) and Procurement Unit (PU)
within the MOHSW, responsible for managing the funds of multiple, external financiers under
the Health Sector Reform Program, also managed the IDA Grant while the procurement of
contractual services and goods under the project was managed by the Procurement Unit of the
MOHSW. The PAU and PU also provided financial management, disbursement and procurement
services to the GFATM.

32.      The implementation of the project and the GFATM grants experienced coordination
problems between the different agencies during the initial stages. This contributed to the delay in
procurements and disbursements under the project. Despite these challenges, the simplicity of the
institutional arrangements, were appropriate and worked very well once capacities in the various
components were built and the roles of the key agencies (i.e., the MOHSW, NDSO and NAC)
were clarified. The improved coordination contributed to the acceleration of project
implementation and improved rating of the overall project implementation.

Government ownership, stakeholder involvement and a participatory process
33.      The Project team consulted with key stakeholders and development partners. This
facilitated Government ownership of the HCTA project and participation of key national
stakeholders. The pre-appraisal mission was a joint mission undertaken together with UNDP,
WHO, UNICEF, GFATM, DCI and DFID. The joint collaboration enabled participation from
partners and subsequently, acceptance of the HCTA project by all partners.

34.      The project team also worked with the United States Government (USG) and the Policy
Project financed by USG that was supporting local NGOs working on HIV/AIDS, as well as other
NGOs represented in the UNAIDS Expanded Theme Group and the CCM. The activities to be
financed under the project complemented those supported by USG, DCI and the African
Development Bank (AfDB).

Risk and mitigation measures
35.      There were no anticipated controversial aspects to the project. However, the overall risk
rating was modest. The main risks identified at preparation and rated substantial related to the
ongoing debates over the role of LAPCA, the NAC and the Secretariat's delay in appointments of


                                                  9

staff who would both manage and benefit from the technical assistance as well as the delay in
procurement of consultant services that would address GFATM implementation challenges.
These were important given the capacity gaps that were identified in the implementing agencies.
The identified mitigating measures were appropriate. However, the risk of staff attrition after
capacity development was not adequately assessed and has proven to be a challenge during
project implementation.

36.      Quality at Entry: There was no Quality at Entry assessment by the Quality Assurance
Group of the World Bank (QAG).


2.2 Implementation

37.      Although the first Implementation Status and Results Report was rated Satisfactory in
November 2004, the project was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in May 2005. Implementation
of the project was delayed mainly as a result of delays in setting up implementation
arrangements. The restructuring under LAPCA was delayed. The project effectiveness was not
met by the initial deadline November 3, 2004 and was only attained by January 31, 2005 because
of the delay in recruitment of the Chief Executive of the NAC. In addition, there was poor
understanding of procurement procedures by the user departments. By May 2005 there had been
no disbursements under the project resulting in the Moderately Unsatisfactory5 rating. However,
the pace of implementation had picked up since then and the project ratings improved
significantly subsequently. The mid-term review (MTR) was however conducted on schedule in
September/October, 2006 and concluded that the HCTA had significantly contributed to the
country's efforts in fighting HIV/AIDS and that the institutional arrangements were appropriate
and had started to work well. There were no major adjustments and restructuring was not needed.
The project development objective (PDO) was found to be relevant, appropriate, and practical.
Further, it was clear that the project had begun strengthening the critical capacity gaps in the
implementing agencies. Further, the fact that the PAU, PU and GFCU jointly managed HCTA
and GF grants was instrumental in ensuring successful implementation of the project.

Positive factors and events which influenced the project's achievements

38.      A capable Project Coordination Team (GFCU): The long-term Technical Advisor to the
GFCU helped to strengthen capacity of the GFCU to perform its oversight role and strengthen
coordination capacity. GFCU is now able to engage constructively with sub-recipients such as
the NAC and the MOHSW.

39.      Effectiveness of long term Technical Assistance: The technical assistance was well
integrated in the hosting agencies and helped to strengthen capacity of the agencies in
coordination, program implementation, fiduciary issues as well as M&E. Consequently, the
GFCU and the procurement and financial management units in MOHSW were more coordinated
in their work than before although they fall under different ministries. The approving procedure
and communication lines are clearer and more effective. The improved coordination contributed
to acceleration of project implementation and disbursements under the GFATM and the HCTA
project.




5Implementation Status Results Report (ISR) May 12, 2005


                                                10

40.      Successful model coordination between the CCM and the Bank: The GFATM parallel
design of the GFATM and the HCTA helped to align the project to the GFATM support. In
addition, there was good effective coordination between the CCM and World Bank task teams.
The Bank team was kept informed on all issues that were discussed in the CCM and this helped
the Bank to address project related issues in good time. In addition, the Government as well as
development partners especially GFATM appreciated the Bank's flexibility in reallocation of
resources between activities and tasks.

41.      Use of Existing Implementation Fiduciary arrangements through the Sector Wide
Approach (SWAp): The project used a SWAp arrangement. In particular, the fiduciary
arrangements through the Project Accounting Unit (PAU) and Procurement Unit (PU) are jointly
supported by the SWAp partners and implement procurement and financial management for all
SWAp partners. Overall, the benefits of using these SWAp arrangements exceeded the
opportunity cost for the GFCU to establish a separate PU and PAU. The two units played such
unique roles when there were no implementation arrangements in place. However, creating
separate systems within GFCU was not the answer particularly at that time.

Negative factors and events which influenced the project's achievements

42.      Poor coordination among the various components: The HCTA as well as Global Fund
implementation experienced coordination problems during the early phase of the project, which
contributed to the delay in procurements and disbursements under the project. The problems were
mainly due to (a) the overall organizational changes in Lesotho which required adjustment and
role-defining among the project agencies; (b) lack of staff and weak capacity as well as lack of
clarity in roles. Even after their establishment, there were challenges of coordination because of
the lack of clarity on roles among others; and (c) lack of experience in dealing with World Bank
procedures. For example, GFCU was responsible for overall coordination but responsibility for
financial management and procurement were in MOHSW. Time was lost trying to make a
decision on who should take up leadership until the Operations Manager in MOHSW was
appointed to coordinate the project activities and a Steering Committee with representation from
the components was established (although it was later dissolved after fulfilling its mandate).
Staffing challenges remain a pressing matter for Lesotho. The HIV/AIDS Directorate in the
MOHSW has been unable to fill the behavior change communication (BCC) positions. In
addition, the rate of staff turnover for the position of Director was very high. There were also
challenges in coordination of capacity building in grant management for through the consultant. It
was not clear whether Consultant was to provide TA to both NAC and MOFDP. Subsequently,
MOFDP took a parallel capacity building approach.

43.      Delay in Recruitment of the Chief Executive for the Secretariat of the National AIDS
Commission. The only effectiveness condition was not fulfilled by the initial deadline of
November 3, 2004; the deadline was subsequently extended to February 1, 2005 and the
condition was met on January 31, 2005. The project however, lost three to four months of
implementation6.

44.      Weak capacity in Planning: Initially, lack of capacity in planning and budgeting
including fluctuations in exchange rates led to gross under-budgeting of activities especially those
which required consultancy services. In addition, resources allocated to capital expenditures such




6HCTA Aide memoires


                                                 11

as rehabilitation of NDSO were not adequate.

45.      Inadequate capacity in Procurement: There were delays in procurements of Technical
Assistance due to the lack of capacity in user departments to generate TORs acceptable to all
stakeholders, reviewing Expressions of Interest (EOI) and Request for Proposals (RFPs), and the
absence of clear institutional mechanisms to link and coordinate the various implementing
agencies. This affected all tenders under the project leading to the Government losing the benefit
of technical assistance for the first year of the project.

46.      Staff shortage and high turn-over: This is a major problem for Lesotho that goes beyond
the project and implementing agencies. The Government efforts have however paid off in
maintaining the availability of key skills including: (i) replacement of international TAs with
local TAs in the PAU and PU; and (ii) ensuring that the key staff remained unchanged during the
implementation period.

47.      The delay in creating implementation arrangements The HIV/AIDS Directorate in
MOHSW, NAC Secretariat and GFCU were not in existence at project effectiveness. The delay
in establishing these institutions greatly affected project implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

48.      Design - The first M&E plans to monitor Lesotho's national response were developed
with support from GFATM mainly to monitor Global Fund support. Release of funds under the
GFATM was performance-based. Although, the M&E system had a narrow focus, it worked well.
The indicators that were needed to monitor the progress of the HCTA project were also available.
The KPIs of the HCTA were deemed practical and appropriate.

49.      Subsequently, with support from partners, a National HIV/AIDS Monitoring and
Evaluation Plan was developed in 2004 and later the National HIV/AIDS Monitoring and
Evaluation Plan 2006-2011 was developed with support from the project, Global AIDS
Monitoring and Evaluation Team (GAMET) and other development partners. Capacity to
implement the plans was built through: (a) establishment of the M&E Unit in NAC with key staff.
International technical advisors supported through the GFATM and USAID helped to greatly
enhance capacity in NAC while technical support through GAMET helped the Government to
collect reliable data; (b) establishment of an M&E Unit under the HIV/AIDS Directorate in the
MOHSW; (c) development of an electronic database system to improve management of the M&E
system as well as strengthened M&E capacity at district level by training and recruiting a data
officer for each district under NAC and an HIV/AIDS officer position in each district to
coordinate HIV/AIDS activities and help with data collection under the HIV/AIDS directorate in
MOHSW. In addition, ten information officers were recruited under the M&E Unit in MOHSW.
Initially, coordination proved to be a challenge as several M&E systems were created without
proper plans for coordination and integration of the existing M&E systems under NAC, GFCU,
AIDS Directorate (MOHSW) and M&E Unit under MOHSW. Similarly, the support to M&E
from development partners was uncoordinated and various vertical programs had their own
systems that were not well integrated with the overall M&E system.

Implementation:
50.      Understanding among the partners to support one M&E plan prevailed. This strengthened
the M&E component primarily within MOHSW. The M&E division under the MOHSW now
comprises four units: Statistics, Epidemiology and Research, M&E, and Information,
Communication and Technology (ICT). The division now has qualified staff. There is a coherent


                                                   12

team that works together and there has been an improvement in the quality of data from
unacceptable to high quality data that can inform policy and program implementation. However,
challenges of capacities in M&E still exist, with inadequate numbers of skilled people in the
country.

Utilization:
51.       M&E guidelines and instruments for data collection that were developed are used
effectively for data collection. The strengthened capacity has enabled the NAC together with
MOHSW to fulfill their reporting tasks regularly on all key HIV/AIDS indicators including
producing the Quarterly Progress Reports as well as Annual Joint Review Reports7. The capacity
to assess impact has increased. For example, information and data from these reports has been
used to inform development of key policy and strategy documents to guide the national response
such as the National HIV/AIDS Policy, the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2006-2011) and
the National HIV/AIDS Coordination Framework.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards:
52.       The project was classified as Category C with regards to environmental impact because it
was a capacity and technical assistance operation. There were no Bank safeguard policies
triggered by the project. The project was not expected to generate substantial adverse
environmental effects. The only work envisaged was to expand an existing warehouse on the
grounds of the NDSO and the civil works that were done was in compliance with the safeguard
requirements.

Financial Management:
53.       The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Lesotho had not yet been
done at the time of appraisal. Although the overall financial risk assessment was low, based on
country experience, Lesotho was handicapped at the time by a serious lack of capacity in
financial management. Support under the project to strengthen the PAU in the MOHSW was of
the utmost importance. An accountant was recruited and on-the-job training in World Bank
Procedures was conducted for project accounting staff to enhance their proficiency in accounting
for the project funds. A computerized accounting system was put in place and quarterly financial
monitoring reports were produced. Although, there were delays in finalizing the financial
statements, no internal audits were produced during the life of the project. It is, however,
encouraging to note that the annual external audit reports under the project were unqualified
especially in the last four years and Management was committed to implement the
recommendations from the external audit aimed at the improving the internal controls. Despite
good progress in financial management, there are still problems especially in raising invoices and
booking expenditures as well as errors in reporting especially among sub-recipients. The
absorptive capacity is still low with high balances of unspent resources under the GFATM. This
is still a challenge that requires optimal capacity building with constant follow up.

Procurement:
54.       The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Lesotho was carried out in
1997. However there was no progress in implementing the CPAR recommendations apart from




7The Author had an opportunity to review some of the annual progress reports and was satisfied with the
quality of the reports.


                                                  13

increasing the Central Tender Board (CTB) prior review threshold.                The CPAR had
recommended several actions to be taken by the Government to make the national procurement
systems more economic, efficient, transparent, and accountable. The procurement function was
the responsibility of the Procurement Unit housed in the MOHSW which benefited from the
existing systems and procedures supported by IDA, DCI and the AfDB. The capacity built in
procurement through on-the-job training had a positive effect. The staff complement in
procurement was increased, the procurement manual was revised to include operations of the
HCTA project, and the hardware and software necessary for procurement processes was put in
place. The tender panel meets regularly, good quality contracts are produced, the storage space in
NDSO was increased and distribution of drugs changed from a push to pull system with timely
deliveries, although forecasting still remains an issue. The contribution of the procurement
technical assistance resulted in major improvements in management of procurement and the pace
of implementation highlighting the value added by the TA. There have been no major issues on
procurement picked up by the audit. Most procurement issues are easily resolved now. Capacity
building for procurement has been highly successful.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

55.     The design of the HCTA project was sound. At the time of the ICR, the Government of
Lesotho and the Bank were developing a new HIV and AIDS Capacity Building Project which
continues to focus on capacity building for both national and local level institutions. The project
will have three components; capacity support to the national response, capacity support for the
health sector, and capacity support for the decentralized response. The new project will also
support a more intensive HIV/TB control and HIV/Sexual reproductive health (SRH) policies and
programs to maximize impact. The approach that has been taken to broaden the focus and open
up to wider capacity building to include more actors and other thematic areas is justified, and
takes into consideration existing capacity gaps, lessons learnt under the HCTA project and best
practices from other countries within the region.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives:
55.     The relevance of objectives is rated high. The objective of the project was highly relevant
when the project was approved and is still highly relevant today for the following reasons:

56.     (a) There is an increase in resources to the Government of Lesotho from the GFATM and
other development partners and human resource challenges still remain a major area of concern.
This calls for improvements in coordination and planning of the national response as well as an
urgent need to improve efficiency of HIV/AIDS expenditures through the use of harmonization of
donor support and joint systems and continuous skills improvement.

57.     (b) Lesotho remains a hyper endemic country and continues to face a mature, severe and
generalized HIV/AIDS epidemic with high casefatality ratio. HIV population prevalence in
adults has stabilized at 23.2 percent8. Lesotho currently has the fifth highest tuberculosis
incidence in the world with 635 cases per 100,000 people. Eighty percent of HIV positive patients



8Lesotho UNGASS Country Report (2008)


                                                14

are co-infected with tuberculosis, making it the leading cause of death for those with HIV9. An
estimated 62 new infections and 50 deaths due to AIDS occur each day. The HIV prevalence
level is still unacceptably high although on the positive side, the adult prevalence rate has not
continued to increase even after the roll-out of the treatment program. More promisingly, the HIV
incidence rate has shown sign of declining. The consequences of HIV/AIDS continue to be felt in
all sectors and HIV/AIDS remains a major threat to national development. Productivity has
declined affecting the national economy with high demands on the health care system. Mother-to-
child transmission is high resulting in increasing numbers of OVCs. Life expectancy has
decreased to almost 37 years10. The HIV/AIDS impacts are still felt, with 270,000 people
estimated to be living with HIV, of whom 12,000 are children11 and about 110,000 orphaned
children in 2007. This is very high for a total population of about 1.8 million12. The drivers of the
epidemic include13: (i) a high frequency (24%) of adults with partners having concurrent multiple
partners. Twenty (23) percent of new infections arise from sex with single marital or cohabiting
partners while casual sex contributes to 65 percent of all new infections in adults; (ii) unprotected
sex, especially among long term partners; and (iii) low male circumcision estimated at 15 percent.

58.      (c) Sustaining the capacity built remains a major challenge. The staff turnover is very
high. Almost every national is looking for greener pastures and to move on once they are
capacitated. This has been compounded by the ease of movement between Lesotho and South
Africa. Many of the staff that have been empowered with skills have either gone outside the
country or have joined International Agencies and NGOs.

Design:
59.      The relevance of the design is rated high. The supporting pillars that included Grant
Management, Procurement, Financial Management and M&E are still relevant today but need to
be broadened beyond the GFATM to account for the fact that there are more development
partners. The design was innovative in that it was directly in response to capacity constraints (as
opposed to financial constraints) which many other AIDS project sought to address. Given this,
the design was a departure from the usual MAP design but was fully appropriate for the country
context. In comparison to other MAP projects the project was relatively simple although not
without challenges. The project design remains relevant to meet the unique human resource
challenges in Lesotho through providing the technical assistance required to implement the
national HIV/AIDS program supported by the GFATM program as well as other development
partners. However, the design did not take into consideration synergies between HIV/AIDS and
TB to inform integrated implementation arrangements for HIV/AIDS/TB programs. Further,
although staff retention was beyond the scope of the project, the project design could have
incorporated an assessment on staff retention issues to provide guidance to Government on
human retention strategies. Despite these weaknesses the relevance of design is rated "high".

Implementation:
60.      The MTR was done according to schedule and no changes to the project implementation
institutional arrangements were made. The project closed on December 31, 2008. Cumulative
expenditures by the closing date amounted to US$ 4.88 million of the original grant of US$5.0



9Ibid.
10National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-2011
11UNAIDS, Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic, 2008
12Census 2006
13Gender and multiple and concurrent sexual partnerships in Lesotho, Preliminary report and findings,
November 2008


                                                 15

million representing a disbursement rate of 98%. Most contracts have been fully executed and
completed and achieved their intended purpose although there were significant delays in initial
implementation. The HIV/AIDS context in Lesotho as stated above has evolved rapidly bringing
new capacity building requirements and there is need to go beyond national level institutions and
include local councils and district level CSOs and private sector organizations, which were not
covered previously. Implementation of the project was faced with some challenges. These
included (i) delay meeting the effectiveness condition, (ii) and problems of parallel
implementation arrangements at district level, with NAC, Ministry of Local Government and
Chieftainship (MOLGC) and MOHSW recruiting M&E Officers which need to be addressed and
harmonized. The relevance of implementation is rated Substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

61.     The overall achievement of the PDO is rated Substantial. The project has met all of the
project development objective indicators. The capacity to implement and utilize resources under
the GFATM and assess the impact of resources for the national response substantially increased
for both Government and non-government institutions. The project support was complementary
to other partners that were supporting the Lesotho national response. The project helped to put in
place systems to ensure that funds disbursed were used for intended activities and that results
were monitored, reported agreed as well as used for policy and program management.

Capacity for utilization of funds:
62.     The GFATM Round 2 HIV/AIDS grant aims to support the scaling up of interventions
for prevention, care and mitigation in support of and in addition to the existing ongoing
interventions being implemented as part of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic plan. The goal of
the grant is to contribute to the reduction of HIV incidence among the Basotho particularly the
youth and improve the care and support of the People Living with HIV/AIDS and those affected
by the epidemic.

63.     The grant aimed to reduce HIV prevalence by 15% in the population aged 15-49 in
Lesotho from 31% to 25% by 2007. To achieve the objective, the grant included interventions
that focused on three thematic areas (prevention, care and impact mitigation) as well as
strengthening the coordination and administration of the various programs being supported
Specifically, the following interventions were being scaled up:
 Prevention activities among youth through peer education
 Capacity of communities to respond to HIV  training of community health assistants,
    establishment of Voluntary Counseling and Testing sites in all 10 districts, comprehensive
    program for orphaned children
 Access to full spectrum of HIV care -- home care, psychosocial support, and provision of
    antiretroviral drugs (to 50% of those who need them by year 5 of implementation)
 Expansion of Prevention to Mother to Child Transmission activities to 18 health service areas
 Mitigating the impact of infection on people living with HIV by training programs on HIV
    and human rights, supporting networks of PLWAs
 Support to national and local government structures  coordination units set up at each
    Ministry and each district

64.     The GFATM program experienced implementation problems. There was little activity
before 2005 and GFATM Secretariat was going to issue a "No Go" recommendation for Round 2
grants. There were major issues relating to grant performance including: (a) The GFCU had
demonstrated an inability to coordinate implementation efforts and failed to adequately absorb the



                                                16

   funds; (b) the Youth Education results were poor despite their importance to the goals of the
   program; (c) Implementation of the M&E plan was delayed for 2 years, the results were not
   properly verified and were therefore unreliable, and there was no Data Manager or M&E
   Specialist in place; and (d) there was no clearly defined procurement strategy, and procurement
   capacity was still weak.

   65.      Against this background, the HCTA project helped to build capacity by: (a) establishing
   and strengthening umbrella organizations to strengthen coordination among the CSOs and
   increase participation of the civil society in HIV/AIDS, (b) strengthening the NAC and the
   HIV/AIDS Directorate in the MOHSW through capacity building at district level and ensuring
   the appointment of the NAC Secretariat Chief Executive in 2005, (c) refurbishment of the NDSO
   warehouse       to increase the storage capacity, (d) strengthening financial management,
   procurement and logistics management for drugs and other medical supplies in MOHSW, NAC
   and NDSO, (e) strengthened M&E systems in MOHSW and NAC at district and sub-district
   levels, (f) established the Grant Management Unit in NAC that helped to accelerate the
   disbursement of GFATM funds to CSOs. These capacity building activities resulted in increased
   capacity of the various implementing partners to utilize the GFATM resources and led to
   tremendous improvement in the implementation and scale up of the HIV interventions discussed
   above (see paragraph 63) and an increase in the coverage of key programmatic indicators (see
   Table 1).

   Table 1: Progress on Key Programmatic Indicators under GFATM Round 2 by December 2007
1.        Key Programmatic Indicator                   Baseline*            Target            Progress    % of the
                                                                                           December 2007 target met
2.  Total # of young people out of school
    taught life skills education                         2,164             242,439             482,648     199%

3.  # of condoms distributed to youth corners
    and general population                             100, 000          14,000,000          22,174,675    158%

4.  # of babies put on PMTCT treatment
    course                                                  0                90%                71%         79%

5.  HIV infected pregnant women receiving a
    complete      course     of    antiretroviral         n.a.              8,260               8,054       98%
    prophylaxis to reduce the risk of MTCT
6.  #   of   pregnant    women      visiting  an
    Antenatal PMTCT site counseled & tested               n.a.              32,308             53,127      164%
    for HIV
7.  # of PLWHA with access to community
    home-based care and support                          16,500             65,000             109,748     169%

8.  Establishment of ARV program and # of
    people receiving ARV treatment                        n.a.              20,000             22,728      114%

9.  # of sites with functional VCT centers                  3                  55                102       185%
10. # of people counseled and tested for HIV              n.a.             350,000             323,101      92%
11. # of registered OVC receiving basic
    package of care and support                           n.a.              73,500             70,198       96%

12. Total # of orphan and vulnerable children
    provided with financial support to attend             n.a.              1,000               1,873      150%
    high school
   Source: GFATM Grant Performance Report August, 2008
   * Baseline data provided is from 2002, except for indicators 3, 11, and 12, which are from 2003.




                                                       17

66.      As a result, the project contributed to a sharp turnaround in the Global Fund portfolio
from poor performance to very good performance. The Government nearly lost funding from the
GFATM due to the noted delays in implementation during the initial phase of the GFATM
support. It took two months for Government to re-negotiate the two grants under GFATM Round
2. The overall Grant by December 2007 had an "A" performance rating for programmatic
achievements. More specifically, GFCU was required to report on 13 targets. Out of these, only 2
indicators achieved less than 80% of the targets. The average results achievement was excellent,
reaching 115% based on the GFATM assessment. Although these achievements were seen during
the latter part of project implementation, it was clear from the interviews that the HCTA project
was appreciated by the country and all stakeholders.

67.      The capacity to mobilize resources for the national program also increased as
exemplified by the seven GFATM approved grants totaling US$ 133.71 million in support of
Lesotho's HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Health Systems Strengthening programs14 in addition to
resources from the USG/PRPFAR totaling US$55 million. Ninety-four (94) percent of Round 2
GFATM Grants was disbursed by end of the project and 35 percent (US$46.94 million) of the
total (US$133.71) approved GFATM funding to Lesotho was disbursed. The partnership brought
in expertise that has greatly contributed to expanding and scaling up of the national response
leading to the marginal improvements in some national outcome indicators.

68.      There has also been noticeable movement of some national indicators in the positive
direction. In 2004, the HIV prevalence rate in the 15-49 age group was 31 percent, compared to
the 2008 population-based prevalence rate of around 23.2 percent15 -- stabilized at a high rate.
However, the data cannot be directly compared since the 2004 data was from the antenatal
sentinel surveillance while the 2008 data is from the demographic and health survey (DHS).
There has been some modest achievements in other national indicators such as the decline in the
annual HIV incidence in adults from 3.6 percent in 1995 to 1.7 in 200716 (a 53% change), the
decrease in incidence in children by half in the last 8 years to 0.17 percent as well as the decrease
in HIV prevalence among youth aged 15-24 years from 11% in 2005 to 8.9% in 200717. However,
the female youth continue to be more susceptible to infection at 14.9% compared to male youth at
5.9%. These successes are due to the efforts of the Government of Lesotho with support from the
development partners supporting the National response in Lesotho.

Capacity to assess impact:
69.      The project helped to build national capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and
monitor and evaluated the status and trends in the epidemic in Lesotho. The main achievements
included: (a) strengthening the national monitoring and evaluation systems by building capacity
in MOHSW and the NAC as well as strengthening the community based M&E systems at district
and sub-district levels; (b) Developing an integrated national HIV/AIDS Monitoring and
Evaluation Plan (2006-2011) with a complement of qualified M&E staff. Annual reports with key
indicators are now regularly produced; (c) improved capacity to conduct research studies and



14US$ 34.3 million under Round 2 (US$ 29 million for HIV/AIDS and US$ 5 million for Tuberculosis);
US$ 39.8 million under Round 5 for HIV/ AIDS including health systems; US$ 3.8 million under Round 6
for Tuberculosis; and US$10.6 million under round 7 for HIV/AIDS and orphans and vulnerable children;
and two grants totaling US$45.2million under Round 8 for HIV/AIDS including Health Systems
Strengthening ($35.6 million) and Tuberculosis ($9.6 million)
15Lesotho UNGASS Country Report (2008)
16Analysis of HIV Prevention, Response and Modes of HIV Transmission (2007).
172005 and 2007 Antenatal surveillance survey


                                                   18

surveys such as the HIV/AIDS workplace and drug stock surveys, the antenatal epidemiological
sentinel surveillance, survey on gender and multiple concurrent partnerships and the HIV
prevention response, and the modes of HIV transmission study; (d) increased use of information
and data from the M&E reports as well as the analysis of research and survey information to
develop key policy and strategy documents; (e) development of guidelines on acute care and
participant training manual that supports acute care short courses on opportunistic infections,
provider-initiated testing and counseling, mental health and neurological problems, STI's and
other genitourinary problems; and (f) development of ARV Treatment guidelines and guidelines
on palliative care as well as symptom management and end-of-life care. The Principal Recipient
and Sub-recipients have also been able to collect data on key indicators and prepare quarterly and
annual including joint annual reviews reports.

Key performance indicators:

70.      Eighty (80) percent of the Global Fund grant has been disbursed by the end of the
Project: This PDO indicator was achieved. The project disbursed 94 percent (US$ 32.25 million)
of the Round 2 GFATM Grants18 by December 31, 2008, easily surpassing the 80 percent target
for this indicator. Of these, 98.50 percent (i.e., US$28.88 million of US$ 29.31 million) for
HIV/AIDS, and 67.4 percent (US$ 3.37 million of US$ 5 million) for TB was disbursed by the
end of the HCTA project. The overall performance of the GFATM Round 2 grants was rated
satisfactory by the GFATM Secretariat. The closing date for the Global Fund Round 2 Grants was
extended from December 31, 2008 to June 30, 2009 to acknowledge the fact that it took extra
time (eight months) to negotiate grant extensions following the threat by the Global Fund to
discontinue grants due to poor performance in the first two years of the grant implementation. By
June 22, 2009, US$ 46.94 million (35 percent) out of the overall total amount approved GFATM
to Lesotho of US$ 133.71 million was disbursed19.

71.      Thirty (30) percent of the Global Fund grant has been disbursed through Civil Society
Organizations (CBOs, NGOs, FBOs and the Private sector for HIV/AIDS): This was met on
target, 30 percent of the GFATM Round -2 grant disbursed to Civil Society Organizations.

72.      Fifty (50) percent of HIV/AIDS sub-projects financed through the Global Fund grant
have been implemented in a satisfactory20 manner: A total of fifteen (15) sub-projects were
financed by the GFATM Round 2 grants by December 31, 2008, twelve of which were
implemented by NGOs. Ninety-three (93) percent, i.e., 14 of the sub-projects were rated
satisfactory during implementation.

73.      Annual reports on all key HIV/AIDS program indicators are produced and
disseminated (and used to inform allocation decisions): NAC together with MOHSW produced
and disseminated annual and biannual reports as well as Joint annual review reports and M&E
quarterly reports for the year 2008-2009 on all key HIV/AIDS indicators. These reports have
been posted on the GFATM website and have been used to inform the development of key policy
and strategy documents to guide the national response such as the National HIV/AIDS Policy, the




18The GFATM Round 2 grants (totaling US$ 34.31 million) are the basis for the assessment of the HCTA
project performance.
19Total approved funding under all GFATM Rounds for Lesotho as of June 22, 2009.
20Satisfactory rating is B1 to A grant rating: Optimal performance noted up to grant performance
exceeding expectations.


                                               19

National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2006-2011), the National HIV/AIDS Coordination
Framework, and amending the labor code to take account of HIV/AIDS and the Legal Capacity of
the Married Persons Act to guide the national response based on the principle of the "Three
Ones".

74.     Other Key indicators:
(a) Percent of established posts filled in the MOHSW Directorate of HIV/AIDS. This KPI was not
    achieved. Only 56 percent of positions were filled against the set target of 100 percent. This
    is mainly because all three staff of the Behavior change communication (BCC) Unit moved to
    NAC at their own preference.

(b) Percentage of posts filled in LAPCA (or its successor as Secretariat to the National AIDS
    Commission). The target for this KPI was achieved. Ninety-two (92) percent of were filled
    against the 80 percent target.

Achievements by Component

Component I: Support to the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.

75.     The project helped to capacitate MOFDP to take up the role of Principle Recipient. The
long term technical advisor was very effective and helped to enhance the capacity of the Ministry.
The Ministry took charge of the GFCU which originally was temporarily housed by the NAC.
MOFDP through the GFCU is now able to perform its oversight role under the GFATM grant
agreement and to discharge its fiduciary role as the GFATM Principal Recipient. In addition, the
Ministry is able to engage constructively on a regular basis with the Sub Recipients, the MOHSW
and NAC.

Component 2: Support to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare.

76.     The project brought in positive changes to fulfill MOHSW's role as a sub-recipient of the
GFATM resources in the health sector. Implementation of procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, financial management as well as capacity building for NDSO was successful. The
project was instrumental in upgrading the AIDS control unit into the HIV/AIDS Directorate with
five units: Clinical Services, Behavior Change Communication, Disease and Program Monitoring,
Health Informatics, and Counseling and Home Based Care. The Directorate now has the
necessary staff, technical knowledge and inputs to lead and guide the health sector response as
well as provide technical guidance to the national response. Ten HIV/AIDS officer posts were
created at district level to coordinate HIV/AIDS activities and to help data collection. The
HIV/AIDS Directorate still lacks critical staff on M&E and behavior change communication. The
project provided equipment such as computers, transport as well recruitment of M&E staff and
training of information officers. The project was instrumental in strengthening the capacity of the
Procurement and Project Accounting Units. MOHSW is now able to provide periodic financial
reports to the partners who pool funds under the health SWAp. Strengthening of management
capacity worked well but could have performed better since most of the recommendations on
improving management capacity were not implemented.

77.     The capacity of the NDSO has been strengthened to fulfill its role for procuring and
distributing health sector goods. The Warehouse was expanded by 1000m2 for storage of ARVs
and is now fully functional with a total capacity of 3000m2 and the distribution of drugs changed
from a push to pull system with timely deliveries although forecasting still remains an issue. The
technical assistance has enabled NDSO to conduct procurements using international competitive


                                                 20

bidding. Specifically, NDSO has developed procurement manuals, has capacity in preparing
bidding documents, and the tender board meets regularly and produces good quality contracts.
The project helped to strengthen drug inventory management and security. Standard operating
procedures and the drug supplies manual for health facilities have been developed as well as bin
cards to monitor drug consumption patterns.

Component 3: Support to Secretariat of the National AIDS Program.

78.      The HCTA project helped to build capacity through the Grant Management Services
Technical Assistance that assisted NAC to establish the Grant Management Unit as well as
develop and coordinate the implementation of grant management services for HIV/AIDS.
Specifically, the consultancy provided expertise to establish and operationalize procurement,
disbursement and accounting aspects of the Grant Management Unit as well as building the
necessary capacity for NAC and National AIDS Secretariat staff in development of policies and
procedures for finance management, procurement and disbursement of funds to all stakeholders
including CSOs, the Private and Public sectors; development of the behavior change
communication strategy including training manuals and guidelines as well as building capacity of
implementing agencies to move the strategy forward; development of financial and program
monitoring tools including community-based M&E system; development of a procurement
manual as well as project operations manual that have been in use by NAC staff and
implementing agencies.

79.      Although the timeframe for the consultancy was reduced to two years, the contract was
successfully executed and completed as originally planned by August 2008. As a result of this TA,
civil society organizations and line ministries have now been able to develop fundable proposals.
The line ministries have mainstreamed HIV/AIDS implementation within the line ministries'
plans. NAC is fully staffed and has put in place the necessary organizational systems. NAC is
now able to evaluate proposals for funding, disburse resources to implementing agencies, monitor
and supervise implementation and account for funds made available to implementing
organizations. The sub- grant proposals tools and procedures have been institutionalized within
the NAC systems. The district AIDS committees' have been strengthened and are now able to
facilitate, coordinate as well as appraise proposals from the communities and line ministries.

Component 4: Support for Civil Society and Private Sector Capacity Development.

80.      This component supported provision of technical assistance to improve capacity of civil
society organizations to assist in the implementation of GFATM programs. Although at the start
of the project, there was evidence of civil society activity to improve the welfare of individuals,
families and communities and to collectively confront and address the range of development
challenges the country was facing, in many respects CSOs faced a lot of challenges including
fragile engagement in developmental activities, fragmented implementation coupled with low
capacity, unstable funding as well as a lack of an overall policy and legislation framework for
civil society partnership with Government.

81.      The civil society support consultancy was designed to improve the implementation of
Global Fund grants in Lesotho. The consultancy helped to expand the range of CSOs partners at
the district and local levels participating in GFATM programs and to improve the ability of these
partners not only to receive and manage GFATM grants, but also to play a stronger, and more
effective role in responding to the overwhelming burden of HIV/AIDS. Specific activities
included: (a) building the capacity of the Lesotho Council of Non-Governmental Organizations
(LCN) to undertake a Principal Recipient (PR) role under the GFATM Round 8 grant, (b)


                                                 21

providing support to the Lesotho Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS (LENEPWHA) to
implement the capacity-building program as outlined in the organizational capacity assessment
report, (c) providing support and advice to national umbrella bodies such as Lesotho Youth
Federation (LYFe), Lesotho Inter-Religious AIDS Consortium (LIRAC) and the Lesotho
Business and Labor Coalition on HIV/AIDS to assume leadership roles in implementation of
GFATM grants, (d) providing assistance to the CCM Secretariat and the GFCU with preparations
for the GFATM round 8 proposals and the new implementation arrangements required to support
multiple PRs under the dual-track financing arrangements, and (e) facilitating a number of
networking and exchange opportunities to solidify a common vision for civil society development
amongst all stakeholders.

82.       As result of this support, there is stronger recognition and support for civil society in the
national response to HIV/AIDS; participation of non-governmental representatives in CCM
deliberations significantly improved; and there was improved management and leadership
capacity in national umbrella bodies involved in HIV/AIDS. For example, there was substantial
involvement of NGOs and private sector entities in the development of the Global Fund Round 8
funding proposal. This was cited by the Global Fund Technical Review Panel (TRP) as a key
strength of the Lesotho proposal.

83.       To address the challenges of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Lesotho, strong partnerships
need to be built. The NGOs and private sector have shown the potential and have a very large
role to play to expand and improve on the Government's efforts. The full potential of these
partners will only be realized with continuous capacity development, maintaining the momentum
that has been built, and strengthening networking and collaboration amongst all stakeholders
towards a true multi-stakeholder response to HIV/AIDS.

3.3 Efficiency

84.       Efficiency of implementation: The project experienced implementation delays at the early
phase of implementation mainly due to: (a) the delay in restructuring LAPCA, (b) delay in
recruitment of the NAC Chief Executive which was a condition of project effectiveness, (c) poor
understanding of procurement procedures by the user departments, and (d) inadequate capacity to
develop TORs for TA due to differences in opinion on the roles and functions to be performed
under the TA contracts. However, the project helped to improve efficiency of public spending by
strengthening implementation capacity of existing fiduciary institutions such as PU and PAU and
outsourcing implementation to civil society organizations. Specifically, capacity was built in
financial management, procurement and M&E within the NAC and MOHSW as well as
strengthening individual capabilities for quality service delivery thereby obtaining better value for
money. The GFCU is now able to easily review technical and financial reports from the sub-
recipients and monitor their performance. Improved utilization of resources has helped to ensure
sustained financing and use of cost-effective standards by the national program. However, there
are still concerns on the adequacy of these resources to sustain people on ARV Treatment.

85.       Efficiency of the returns to the investment: Prior to the HCTA project, disbursement of
the funds under the GFATM Round 2 accomplished very little. In April 2005, when the World
Bank funds became accessible, the GFATM grants had only disbursed US$4.42 million. The
country was going to lose these GFATM approved grants unless implementation picked up. As
stated above, with an investment of US$5 million the project provided technical assistance to
build the capacity of key functions required for successful implementation of HIV/AIDS
programs. Proper systems to ensure that funds were disbursed and used for intended activities
including monitoring and reporting of results based on agreed plans were put in place. This


                                                   22

resulted in significant improvements in the utilization of funds as well as improving project
performance and ability to access additional funding from the Global Fund totaling US$133.71
million for HIV/AIDS, TB and health systems strengthening. Although the project provided
assistance towards implementation of interventions for HIV prevention and impact mitigation
focusing on vulnerable groups using the GFATM Round 2 grant, due to the nature of the project
design, the net present value of this specific investment aspect cannot be adequately represented
in financial terms. Several benefits would however accrue to the nation from controlling the
HIV/AIDS epidemic and mitigating its impact as demonstrated by the modest improvements in
some national outcome indicators stated earlier (see paragraph 68). The economic productivity
would be enhanced if the population was healthier and free of HIV/AIDS.

86.     It is very clear that the project, at modest cost, helped to accelerate implementation and
increase disbursements under the GFATM Round 2 grants. The overall efficiency is therefore
rated Substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

87.     The project achieved its objective. Capacities in key functional areas in MOFDP, NAC,
MOHWS and Civil Society organizations were considerably increased. The project focused on
the beneficiary groups identified at appraisal. In addition, implementation focus was on achieving
the development objectives and this has yielded demonstrable results. The capacity built has
enabled the government to submit successful fundable proposals and additional resources under
GFATM Rounds 5, 6, 7, and 8 have been mobilized. Lesotho now has seven approved grants with
implementation under Round 2 having moved from an Unsatisfactory rating to a Satisfactory
rating. The project outcome is rated Satisfactory based on High relevance, Substantial efficacy
and Substantial efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
88.     The HIV and TB epidemics have adversely impacted all aspects of national development.
The demographic structure of the country is changing as large numbers of people die in their
productive years creating a high dependency ratio. Economically, the epidemic disrupts capital
optimization by striking at a quarter of adult Basotho who are critical labor inputs. Critical skill
shortages were being felt in government services as well as business enterprises. One example is
the lack of skilled manpower at district level for implementation of the ART program. The large
burden of orphans and vulnerable children (OVCs) and other people living with HIV/AIDS has
strained the social networks. The inter-generational spillovers are immense, as the OVCs are
often deprived of access to education; and of good nutrition and health care that will equip them
to deal with challenges in the future. Due to the nature of the design and activities, the project
had no direct impact in these areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening.
89.     Institutional capacity strengthening contributed by the project was substantial through
several organizational changes. These developments improved coordination among project
agencies and had a positive impact on the implementation of the HIV/AIDS interventions.

90.     Although the project has helped to build institutional capacity which had demonstrated
effectiveness in key functions of procurement and financial management, M&E including
capacities built in the Department of Social Welfare of the MOHSW and civil society
organizations that has enabled these organizations to better serve vulnerable populations in line


                                                 23

with the Government's Social Welfare Policy, there are still institutional challenges that need to
be addressed as given in the explanations throughout the report.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
91.      Increased numbers of partners and resources for HIV/AIDS Control: During HCTA
implementation, the resources for HIV/AIDS increased significantly and the number of partners
in the HIV/AIDS fight increased. For example, GFATM resources to the national response
increased from US$34 million at project conception to US$133.71 million by the end of project
closing.

92.      The high turnover of staff for greener pastures within the country to international NGOs
or international agencies or outside the country after capacity building reflects the project's
success in building their individual capacity but may undermine the gains made in the national
HIV response capacity building.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

93.      Not Applicable. This is a core ICR

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

94.      The risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. Although, there are major overall
human resource challenges in Lesotho because of the high turnover of doctors and nurses
migrating outside the country, especially to neighboring South Africa, the rate of migration for
staff trained under the project has been very low at about 5 percent. Many staff empowered
through the project have moved within the country to international organizations, other
organizations within the public sectors or NGOs. For example, all the staff recruited under the
BCC Unit in MOHSW moved to NAC because the conditions of service were better. This has
weakened the capacity in MOHSW built under the project to support the fight against HIV/AIDS
and has created capacity constraints which have been a challenge. Not all positions in the BCC
Unit to date have been replaced. There is a need for commitment from the Government of
Lesotho to harmonize the conditions of service to curtail this movement of staff between
government institutions. Following an analysis on existing capacity gaps, the follow-on project
(HCTA-II) has broadened capacity building to include more actors and thematic areas.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
95.      The Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The project team prepared a well designed
project in collaboration with Government, Donors and other Stakeholders. The project design
addressed the need to strengthen the implementation of external funds. The Bank played a
catalytic role in supporting an innovation of institutional capacity development i.e., for adequacy
of systems, procedures as well as individual capabilities to improve service delivery. The team
did a good analysis of the technical, social, environmental, fiduciary, economic and financial
analyses as well as lessons learnt from other projects and countries with similar programs. The
project objectives were responsive to the Government's National HIV/AIDS strategic plan and
the institutional and implementation arrangements were aligned to the GFATM project. The
purpose was to build capacity both within the Government and civil society to better target and



                                                24

serve vulnerable groups. The team was inclusive in their consultations and collaborated very well
with other partners in deriving evidence to feed into project preparation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
96.      The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. The supervision missions were issues and
results oriented. The project team's collaboration efforts with the CCM helped to indentify and
proactively manage emerging implementation problems. The midterm review which was carried
out in September/October 2006 as scheduled was well prepared and highly participatory. The
review focused on clarifying the roles of the various components to improve coordination and
implementation among other things.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
97.      With an innovative project coupled with sound preparation and proactive supervision, the
overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
98.      Credit is given to the Government of Lesotho who demonstrated commitment and
provided an enabling environment for successful implementation of the HCTA project and
GFATM program. Although, initial implementation of the project was delayed, this picked up
once the roles were clarified and capacity built through the various components of the project.
The Government has been able to put in place policy documents and strategies to guide the
response as well as conduct surveys and analytical studies to generate evidence to inform the
response. Government, however, has been slow to respond to the high staff turnover as well to try
to curb the migration of skilled manpower although there are important developments and
attempts to address these challenges through training, recruitment and improved remuneration as
well as initiation of quality assurance mechanisms. The performance of Government is rated
Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
99.      GFCU: The project capacitated the GFCU to provide the oversight and coordination role
as Principle Recipient under the GFATM by ensuring that; (i) annual work programs are
submitted on time and approved by the Country Coordinating Mechanism (CCM), (ii)
disbursements of funds to the sub-recipients are facilitated, (iii) financial controls and audits are
adequate, and (iv) reporting on the agreed monitoring and evaluation indicators is timely. The
GFCU coordinated the implementation of both the GFATM grants and the HCTA project very
well and was dedicated to achieving the objectives. The staff performance was excellent. The
performance of GFCU is rated Satisfactory.

100.     MOHSW: The project with additional support from other development partners
successfully built capacity within the PAU, procurement Unit and M&E Unit and upgrading of
the HIV/AIDS Unit as well as strengthen fiduciary systems. This enabled MOHSW to provide
quality treatment and care to those infected by HIV/AIDS and to fulfill its role as a sub-recipient
of the GFATM resources for implementation of HIV/AIDS and TB interventions in the health
sector. The performance of MOHSW is rated Satisfactory:

101.     NAC: The consultancy successfully capacitated NAC through the establishment of the
NAC Grant Management Unit, which is now fully staffed and operational, development of
National Behavioral Change Communication Strategy, strengthened capacity in community M&E
at district and sub-district levels and mainstreaming HIV/AIDS in public sector ministries. NAC


                                                 25

has evolved into one of the leading stakeholder in the national response. The performance of NAC
is rated Satisfactory.

102.     CSO: Helped to improve coordination of civil society activities at the national level
through dedicated NGO and private sector focal persons located in LAPCA. The project helped to
build the capacity of the umbrella organizations such as LCN to take up the role of Principal
Recipient under the Global Fund Round 8 and the LIRAC executive committee to take on the role
of coordinating the Business and Labor Coalition on HIV and AIDS. The effectiveness in
disbursements and efficiency in implementation to the CSO was quite high as demonstrated by
the 30 percent of the GFATM Round -2 grant disbursed to Civil Society Organizations and the
number of sub-projects (14 out of 15 sub-projects funded) with satisfactory implementation based
on the GFATM rating as well as the expansion and increased coverage of key interventions (see
table 1). The performance of CSO is rated Satisfactory.

103.     The overall rating for implementing agencies is rated Satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

104.     Considering (a) and (b) above the overall performance of the Borrower is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

105.     Use of established country-led systems is a good recipe for success: The successful
strengthening of capacity in the project accounting and procurement units underscores the value
of building on and use of existing systems. Strengthening procurement and financial management
capacity had a positive impact and helped to accelerate project implementation. Moreover, it is
commendable that the project worked with other health SWAp partners to use common fiduciary
systems.

106.     Effective management of technical assistance is an important ingredient to ensure
achievement of sustained results in countries with human resource capacity constraints: The
HCTA project has demonstrated that with limited resources, capacity building and leveraging
resources from other development partners a lot can be achieved. However, caution should be
taken to ensure that countries do not become over dependent on TA. In making a decision
whether to import expertise or build capacity, the local context and ability of the country to
employ or transfer skills from TA to local staff should be taken into consideration.

107.     Streamlining institutional arrangements and roles of various components at design stage
is a necessity for avoiding implementation delays: The project experienced effectiveness and
implementation delays that resulted from poor understanding of procurement procedures by the
user departments as well as differences in opinion on actual functions to be performed under the
TA contracts. These can be addressed if capacity building needs are clarified before
commencement of implementation, and procurement plans are developed during project
preparation which clearly define the specific functions and expected results for proposed TA
contracts. Individual TA provision should be evaluated for effectiveness in terms of capacity
built in the process by the client entity (for example by MOFDP, NAC, NDSO, PAU, etc.). It is
important to clarify roles among the players at design stage and provide for a steering body that
would assist in addressing implementation challenges that may arise during project
implementation.

108.     Building successful partnerships at project preparation and appraisal stage is critical to



                                                  26

successful implementation of the project. Strong partnership between the Bank and other
development partners was a critical factor in the design and delivery of the project. For example,
the partnership between the CCM and the Bank facilitated problem solving during project
implementation.

109.    Sustainable Human Resources Retention requires long-term planning and ownership:
Like many other countries in the region, shortage of skilled manpower is one of the biggest
challenges facing the Government of Lesotho. Although, the project has helped to build capacity
in government and non-government institutions, staff that are critical to delivery of services, i.e.,
nurses and doctors, migrate freely to neighboring South Africa. In addition, staff under the project
that have been empowered have left those positions, moving internally to other institutions and
staff at the district level have also moved to the capital city. The question that needs to be
addressed for future support is how the Bank can support the Government to put in place
innovative and affordable manpower development and retention policies and strategies to address
the broader human resource challenges Lesotho is facing.

110.     Create an enabling environment for long-term civil society development. The World
Bank has tremendous influence and leverage in a country like Lesotho that is highly reliant on its
support for sustainable development. The World Bank has greatly assisted the private sector in
Lesotho by working for regulatory changes and other adjustments to create a more enabling
environment for business development and growth. In contrast, the civil society sector appears
neglected and its potential to contribute to economic growth in Lesotho is unacknowledged. This
is a particularly large gap when one considers the amount of donor funds flowing to Lesotho to
support the response to HIV and AIDS and the growing proportion of these funds that is now
supporting local, non-governmental organizations and other civil society entities. These funds
create employment opportunities and alternative futures for Lesotho's young people. Creating a
more enabling environment for civil society growth and development, by, for exampling,
reviewing and revising laws and policies governing such entities, would significantly improve the
ability of the sector to provide effective responses to Lesotho's development challenges and to
provide meaningful employment and professional development opportunities for Lesotho's future
generations.

111.    The HCTA project has clearly demonstrated that the technical assistance approach can
achieve a lot with very little financing and what the Bank can do in a country like Lesotho with
capacity challenges to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of donor financing. Under the
current environment with a number of global initiatives providing substantial resources for HNP
outcomes, this approach could be a valuable lesson that could be extended to other priority
development areas such as climate change.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

112.    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies: (a) Borrower/implementing agencies: The
Coordinator for the GFCU sent written comments on the draft ICR. It agreed with the assessment.
She indicated that the support that was provided was not sufficient especially for the Civil Society
to build capacity the community to assists the chronically ill as well as the OVCs. More efforts
should have been made to strengthen logistics for communities to carry out their work effectively.
While we agree with this assessment, this was beyond the scope of the HCTA project.

113.    (b) GFATM: The Global Fund Portfolio Manager for Lesotho sent her comments on the
project. She indicated that the GFATM was in agreement with the key findings expressed in the
report, including the way forward for the future capacity building support by the World Bank to


                                                27

Lesotho and that they endorse the ratings of the ICR, which are well deserved considering the
whole period of the HTCA project. She made the following suggestions to improve the report:
(a) To capture the extraordinarily huge challenges around the Round 2 grant implementation
during the first 18 months (2004-2005), partly co-relating to the delays/conditions precedent to
the commencement of HTCA as described (b) To provide more in-depth analysis of possible
underlying causes for the variance in the HTCA financial allocations where the civil society did
not manage to utilize the expected/planned funding by a significant margin. (c) The financial
component of the HTCA grant does not appropriately capture the MOFDP lead modification of
the grant support structure in Lesotho for the Global Fund, i.e. moving the financial management
of the Round 2 grant away from the PAU in 2008 and establishing its own financial management
structure within the GFCU of the MOFDP. Most comments have been taken into account in the
revised version

(c) Other partners and stakeholders  No comments received
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               28

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)

1.    THE      MINISTRY     OF

FUNANCE & DEVELOPMENT                   0.37                0.24            0.65

PLANNING (MOFDP)

2.    THE      MINISTRY     OF

HEALTH & SOCIAL WELFARE                 2.14                2.84            1.33

(MOHSW)

3. SECRETARIAT OF THE
                                        1.38                1.65            1.20
NATIONAL AIDS PROGRAM

4       CIVIL    SOCIETY      &

PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY                 1.11                0.15            0.13

DEVELOPMENT



            Total Baseline Cost         5.00                4.88            0.98

Physical Contingencies                  0.00                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                     0.00                0.00            0.00
            Total Project Costs         5.00                4.88            0.98
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required          5.00                4.88            0.98



(b) Financing

                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

                                   Type of Co-    Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    financing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal

                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        0.00         0.00         .00
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                          5.00         4.88         0.98




                                          29

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1- MOFDP: The MOFDP as the PR received funds from GF since 2004. The first
disbursement received was $1,271,000 in January, 2004, and by December 2004, GF had
disbursed US$4,419,252 out of the 1st year budget of US$4,177,000. The 2nd disbursement was
received in December 2004 and PR had to accelerate implementation in order ensure that funds
were absorbed and according to quarterly budget allocation. By end of 2005, the second year of
Phase I, funds disbursed from Global Fund was to tune of US$7,984, 731 and commitments of
US$912,926 making a total of spent by Phase I of US$8,897,659, out of the allocated total of
US$10,557,000. However, due to the delays in implementation in Year 1 of Phase I, and other
issues such 1) unsatisfactory capacity within the PR and therefore resulted inability to coordinate
the SR and implementation; 2)data not being reliable due to M&E Plan not being implemented by
PR, 3) PSM Plan role and responsibilities not clearly defined as a results activities being
implemented not in a smooth and satisfactory way. Because of these issues, Lesotho nearly lost
remaining funds for Phase II. In September, 2006, PR was able to address all issues and managed
to sign Phase II agreement. To date funds disbursed by GF had reached 90% at US$ 22,
978,342.13 out of the budget allocated by end of December 2008 at US$27,597,789.

By end of 2008, 30% of funds were distributed to NGOs, CBO, and Private Sector and the major
part of funds went to the support of MOHSW supporting ARV treatment and OVC. It is worth to
mention that the projects that were being financed through the support of GF had performed
satisfactory , in terms of meeting their targets as agreed with PR, and reporting on a timely
manner in order for the PR report to LFA. There had been challenges in relation to reports
received from SR , but through trainings and bi-annual meetings between PR and SR these
challenges were always addressed.

In addition, capacity within the GFCU was strengthened. An overall M&E Coordination Plan,
with manuals, systems, procedures, tools and data base; flowcharts for data clearly specifying
institutional roles and responsibilities; an implementation plan and budget; and a plan for
Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC) were developed. Equipment (2 computers with printers
and a sedan motor car) were procured. 25 percent of office furniture were procured by the project.


Component 2- MOHSW: The project strengthened MOHSW to provide access to quality care
and treatment people living with and affected with HIV, implement the TB and to effectively
fulfill its role as sub-recipient of the GFATM resources. Key outputs included:
1. Technical assistance to establish the new HIV/AIDS Directorate  Directorate is fully staffed
    with; Director  HIV/AIDS, Program Manager  Counseling and Home Based Care,
    Program Officer  Counseling, Program Officer  Home Based Care, Program Manager 
    HIV Treatment and Care, Program Officer  HIV Care, Program Officer  Pediatric HIV,
    Program Officer  ART, Prevention and Management of Opportunistic Infections.
     Training of staff at central and district level: Staff now able to effectively responding to
         the various challenges in the prevention, control and care of HIV/AIDS.
     Development of guidelines i.e., integrated Management of Adolescent and Adult Illness
         (IMAI), Acute Care Participant Training Manual, which supports acute care short courses
         on opportunistic infections, provider-initiated testing and counseling, mental health and
         neurological problems, and STI's and other genitourinary problems, Chronic HIV Care
         with ARV Therapy (Guidelines for health workers at health centre or clinics at district



                                                30

         hospital outpatients), ARV Treatment guidelines, guidelines on palliative care: symptom
         management and end-of-life care.
     Development of capacity in Planning: An HIV/AIDS Policy, National AIDS Strategic
         Plan and Annual Operational Plans.


    Provision of equipment and training to the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit
     Training of staff in the M&E Unit through TA.
     Provision of Equipment  a vehicle for supervision of district health information offices.


2. PAU/PAU - initially established within the MOHSW to manage funds and procurements of
    multiple external financiers under the Health Sector Reform Program.

Strengthening of the finance function in PAU:
 Recruitment and retention of qualified key staff i.e., Finance Manager and currently six
    Project Accountants
 On-the-job training
 Accounting procedures manual, customized to include the operations of the HCTA project.
      PAU capacitated and producing Financial monitoring reports (FMRs) such as Special
      Account Reconciliation Statement, Maloti Bank Account Reconciliation Statement, Project
      Sources and Uses of Funds, Uses of Funds by Project Activity, Contract Status Report,
      Project Progress Reporting, Procurement Reports although these were only produced
      during the field visits by the financial Management specialists and World Bank Missions.
 Production of project summary reports by category and monitoring and evaluation reports
    every quarter.
 Computerized Accounting Systems FINPRO accounting software
 Internal/External Audit - Although no internal audits were produced during the life of project,
    the external audits under the project were unqualified for the last 4 years.

Strengthening of the procurement function in PU
 Recruitment of staff in Procurement Unit. No staff turnover for Procurement Manager , a
    Senior Procurement Officer, 3 Procurement Officers , an Administrative Secretary, a driver
    and a messenger. PU further strengthened by an additional eight storekeepers to cater for
    additional procurement of contracts. There are further plans to strengthen the Unit.
 Hands on training on procurement provided.
 Procurement Manual for health sector program customized to include the operations of the
    HCTA project.
 Improved Record Keeping System as well as Procurement Documentation

    Support for leadership training to enhance the management capacity within the Ministry at
    all levels
3. Leadership Training to senior management within the MOHSW provided through a
    consulting firm. A detailed cultural management analysis on senior management of the
    MOHSW, and recommendations to improve management practices made but were not
    implemented.

Support to the National Drug and Supplies Organization
The project successfully supported the National Drug and Supplies Organization to fulfill its
role of procuring and distributing health sector goods. This has enabled the procurement
department to operate more efficiently.



                                                31

1. Capacity to procure health sector goods using international competitive bidding strengthened
    through the Research for Action (HERA) consulting firm
2. Creation of a Procurement Department was created fully staffed with Procurement Manager,
    2 Assistant Managers, 4 Procurement Officers and a Procurement Clerk.
3. Development of a procurement manual and bidding documents.
4. Training of staff on procurement of health sector goods as well as continuous on-the-job
    training to the procurement staff through a Resident Procurement Advisor for one year.
5. Expansion of warehousing capability of NDSO an additional 1000 square meters was
    constructed in NDSO fitted with air conditioners, and is now fully functional. Additional
    warehousing facility of 1000 square meters provided some relief to the already constraint
    warehousing facilities of the organization.

Support to strengthen inventory management and security at all hospitals
Development of the Drug Supply Manual and the Lesotho Standard Operating Procedures
(LESOPS) These procedures have provided guidance as to how health sector goods are to be
received and distributed, e.g., an "Internal Requisition Voucher" was designed to facilitate the
distribution of goods. Development of Supervision Tools to assist supervision teams in reviewing
inventory management and security arrangements at the various hospitals. All hospitals both
Government and CHAL now have the systems of Drugs Supply Management and the Standard
Operating Procedures in place.

Component 3- NAC Secretariat: The project successfully supported the National AIDS
Commission in the following areas through a consulting firm Crown Agents by
strengthening the NAC's monitoring systems so as to ensure sound output and process
monitoring. Key outputs included:
    1. Generated and managed proposals submitted for funding through LAPCA
     Establishment of the NAC Grant Management Unit, which is fully staffed and
        operational.
     Development of procurement manual (with the help of a part-time procurement specialist
        provided by the firm)
    2. Strengthened the District AIDS Coordinators and the District AIDS Task Forces through
        regular training activities
     Provided assistance to develop community based monitoring and evaluation capacity for
        implementers at the district and sub-district levels by capacitating district staff and
        communities on the management of M&E systems as well as producing the Geographical
        Information System and distributing it to all stakeholders and districts.
    3. Supported implementation by the civil society, private and public sector grant-recipients
    4. provide assistance to public sector line ministries to develop fund-able proposal for
        mainstreaming HIV/AIDS and support their implementation
    5. ensure that appropriate fiduciary safeguards and procedures are in place without
        constraining implementation
    6. Development of the Behavioral Change Communication Strategy (BCC Strategy) whose
        goals were to: (i) Reduce the spread of HIV in Lesotho through prevention interventions;
        (ii) Provide equitable care and support for those infected by HIV; (iii) Mitigate the impact
        of HIV and AIDS such that it is no longer of public health, social and economic concern;
        and (iv) ensure that all Basotho will be able to achieve socially and economically
        productive lives free of the infection and its effects.

Component 4 - CSO and Private Sector Development: The project supported capacity
building to enable civil society and faith based organizations, traditional institutions and



                                                 32

                communities to develop viable proposals implement such proposals and fulfill the reporting
                requirements for disbursements under the GF agreement. Specific outputs:
                     Improved coordination of civil society activities
                     Improved capacity in developing proposals and in implementation.
                     Improved organizational capacities in implementation of HIV/AIDS programs supported
                        by the Global Fund grants.
                     Strengthened capacity for LCN Board and staff to take the role as Principal Recipient
                        under the Global Fund Round 8.
                     Strengthened capacity of umbrella organizations such as LIRAC and Business and Labor
                        Coalition on HIV and AIDS.
                     This facilitated a number of networking and exchange opportunities to solidify a common
                        vision for civil society development amongst all stakeholders.


                (b) Results Framework and Monitoring


Key performance indicator        Baseline      Target   Best estimate YR-1     YR-2    YR-3    YR-4     Y R - Data
                                               Value    at December   (2004)   (2005)  (2006)  (2007)   55    Source
                                                        31, 2008
OUTCOMES  PDOs
1. Percentage disbursements      N/A           75%      94%           31%      73%     100%    49%      90%   EFR 2008
   of GFATM resources
   (monitored each quarter
   and cumulatively)
2. Percentage and amount of      N/A           30%      30%           1%       32%     7%      14%      8%    EFR 2008
   financing disbursed
   through Civil Society
   (CBOs, NGOs, FBOs and
   the Private sector for
   HIV/AIDS)
3. Percentage of projects        N/A           100%     93%           90%      79%     71%     86%      93%   EFR 2008
   financed under the
   GFATM which are judged
   to be implemented
   satisfactorily.
4. Annual reports on all key     0             5        5             1        2       3       4        5     Cumulative
   HIV/AIDS program
   indicators are produced and
   disseminated (and used to
   inform allocation
   decisions).




                                                                 33

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic impact of HIV AIDS has been widely recognized in both low-income and middle
income countries. The estimates of the macroeconomic costs of AIDS in African countries where
the epidemic has been severe range between 0.3 to 1.5 percent of GDP annually. While specific
analysis of the macro-economic impact of HIV and AIDS in Lesotho has not been conducted, the
impact of the epidemic, in view of the high prevalence of the disease, increased vulnerability of
the migrant miners returning from South Africa, and relatively small pool of human capital, is
likely to be high.

HIV/AIDS affects the most productive sectors of the population; young adults who are beginning
to contribute to the economy. High adult mortality as a result of the epidemic would make
households more vulnerable, stretch family and community coping mechanisms and lead to
deteriorating living standards and perpetual poverty. The disease also weakens the mechanism
through which knowledge and abilities are transmitted from one generation to the next by killing
parents and leaving the children of its victims without one or both parents to love, raise and
educate them. HIV/AIDS increases the risk and spread of other communicable diseases such as
Tuberculosis in the larger population thus expressing a negative externality. A recent study21
using an overlapping generation's model applied to South Africa found that in the absence of
AIDS, economic growth is likely to be modest with universal and complete education attained
within three generations. Without addressing the spread of AIDS, however, the study found the "a
complete economic collapse" will occur within three generations.

Fighting HIV/AIDS by promoting behavior change to reduce transmission and improving access
to care and support for those infected and affected is central to any effort towards poverty
reduction in a country with high HIV prevalence, such as Lesotho. This project provided
assistance towards implementation of interventions for HIV prevention and impact mitigation
focusing on vulnerable groups and using the GFATM approved resources. As a result of the
nature of the design of the project, the net present value of the specific investment cannot be
adequately represented in financial terms. Several benefits would accrue to the nation from
controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic and mitigating its impact. Economic productivity would be
enhanced if the population is healthier and free of HIV/AIDS. Households will be more likely to
generate and preserve wealth when the scourge of HIV/AIDS is eliminated or mitigated.

The HCTA project financed only technical assistance, limited goods to support institutions and
the expansion of the warehouse at the National Drug and Supply organization. The inputs
financed were time-limited and should not generate additional recurrent costs. The total financing
was limited to US$ 5million.

The project would improve the efficiency of public expenditure by strengthening implementation
capacity, by improving procurement procedures in order to obtain better value for money, and by



21The Long-run Economic Costs of AIDS: Theory and an Application to South Africa, by Clive Bell,
Shantayanan Devarajan and Hans Gersbach, June 2003.




                                               34

outsourcing implementation to civil society. The project was expected to enable Lesotho to
mobilize additional financing for HIV/AIDS. GFATM financing was not subject to economic and
financial analysis. The engagement of the Bank through the proposed project should facilitate a
more robust consideration of the existing GFATM and other potential financing. Particular
concerns relate to sustainability of financing for treatment. The proposed project was intended to
help ensure sustained financing (through improved utilization of resources), and TA financed
under the project will help ensure that the national program employs cost-effective standards.




                                                 35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

                                                                     Responsibility/
           Names                        Title                  Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Julie Mc Laughlin        Senior Health Specialist - TTL      AFTH1
Sheila Dutta             Senior Health Specialist.           AFTH1
Andrew C. Follmer        Senior Country Officer              LCC7A
Edmund Motseki           Operations Officer                  AFCO1
Jonathan Nyamukapa       Financial Management Specialist     AFTH1
Helen Tadesse            Team Assistant                      AFTH1
Pascal Tengwa            Senior Procurement Specialist       LEGAF
Muhammad Ali Pate        Country Sector Coordinator          EASHD
T. Mpoy Kamulayi         Lead Counsel                        LEGAF


Supervision/ICR
Feng Zhao                Senior Health Specialist               AFTH1 TTL
Julie McLaughlin         Sector Manager                         SASHD
Henri A. Aka             Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC

Andrew Osei Asibey       Senior    Monitoring    &    Evaluation
                         Specialist                             AFTRL

Andrew C. Follmer       Senior Country Officer                  LCC7A
Lori A. Geurts           Senior Program Assistant               AFTH1
Wedex Ilunga             Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
Jonathan Nyamukapa       Senior Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Peter Okwero             Senior Health Specialist.              AFTH1
Muhammad Ali Pate        Country Sector Coordinator             EASHD
Helen Tadesse            Team Assistant                         AFTH1
Oscar Picazo             Senior Economist (Health)              AFTH1
Joel C. Spicer           Senior Health Specialist.              AFTH1
Musonda Rosemary Sunkutu Senior PHN Specialist                  AFTH1
Joao Tinga              Financial Management Analyst            AFTFM
Christopher D. Walker    Lead Specialist                        AFTH1
Kanako Yamashita-Allen   E T Consultant                         AFTH1




                                         36

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)

Lending
  FY04                                 19                       118.99
  FY05                                   5                       17.07
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00


                        Total:         24                       136.06
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                   5                       28.07
  FY06                                 18                        80.66
  FY07                                 24                       100.65
  FY08                                 25                       100.92
  FY09                                 15                         0.00


                        Total:         87                       310.30




                                    37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                    38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                  39

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(a)     BORROWER'S ICR

                MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND DEVELOMENT PLANNING
                            GLOBAL FUND COORDINATION UNIT
                                Implementation Completion Report

1       BACKGROUND

The Government of Lesotho (GOL) obtained assistance from the Global Fund Round 2 in
financing the HIV/AIDS activities in response to the fight against HIV in the tune of
US$ 34,312,000 to be disbursed over five years.          The program contributes to the partnership
against HIV/AIDS in Lesotho by supporting the Government's program as articulated in the
Global Fund proposal and the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. In Round 5 another Global
Fund grant to the amount of $40.3 million was made available for implementation starting in
2006.

The GOL received US$5 million from the World Bank to support the implementation of the
Global Fund grants. The funds were meant to be used to finance the additional institutional
capacity and technical assistance required to manage the implementation.

The World Bank project has four components namely, Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning (MOFDP) Component, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW) component,
National AIDS Commission (NAC) component (including M&E) and civil society, public and
private sector capacity development component. The project became effective in 2004.

The World Bank conducted a mid-term review followed by an external evaluation which is still in
progress. The client is also required to do its own internal evaluation at completion of the project.
This report reflects the client's internal evaluation of the HCTA project.

Lesotho is among the countries with the highest HIV/AIDS prevalence globally, estimated at
23.2% by GOL/UNAIDS. This has a negative impact on almost all aspects of the society, from
economic growth to population health status, hence a great development challenge for the country.
To meet this challenge the country developed a National AIDS Policy Framework, which would
guide different interventions to counter the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The interventions are articulated
in the National HIV/AIDS strategic Plan.

One of the strategies was to establish the Lesotho AIDS Program Coordination Authority
(LAPCA), which has since been replaced by the National AIDS Commission (NAC). The GOL
also rearranged other institutions such as the upgrading of the HIV/AIDS Unit under the Disease
Control Unit of MOHSW to Directorate level. In the process Lesotho secured 5 Five-year grants
to the tune of approximately US$ 113 million, for the fight against AIDS and Tuberculosis. The
grants consisted of:
     US$ 34 million under round 2,
     US$ 40 million under round 5,
     US$ 6 million under round 6, and
     US$ 33 million under round 7

Due to limited institutional capacity to manage and monitor the funds the HCTA project was


                                                   40

proposed to increase the capacity of government and non-governmental institutions responsible
for the national response to HIV/AIDS to utilize and assess the impact of funds received for
HIV/AIDS. In this regard, the project has achieved its aim and was implemented successfully as
further discussed in paragraph 3.2 to 3.9 below.

The project was highly relevant to the HIV and AIDS strategy in the Lesotho country context and
achieved its objective to the extent of increasing capacity of government and non-governmental
institutions responsible for the national response to HIV/AIDS, as it relates to the Global Fund
grants.

The project was designed to complement the use of GFATM approved resources in Lesotho
through provision of technical assistance and capacity building activities. The GFATM support to
Lesotho is aimed at supporting the scaling up of specific HIV/AIDS interventions and
preventions, care, treatment and impact mitigation, including the expansion of home based care,
community mobilization, and promoting civil society and public-private partnerships in the fight
against HIV/AIDS.

In light of the above, from interviews and literature review, it has been concluded that the project
was appropriately designed and achieved its objectives of providing technical assistance and
equipment to the identified stakeholders. However a few challenges were experienced, such as
the following:
     The prerequisite condition that funds earmarked for NAC would only be disbursed once
         the Chief Executive was appointed. NB: appointment of the CE was delayed by up to
         twelve months
     Delay in preparing procurement documents and slow disbursement of funds
     At the onset the project did not have a concise project institutional leader and
         consequently experienced some decision-making problems.

The above challenges were overcome by the good working relationships between, MOFDP,
MOHSW, NAC and Civil Society and also the flexibility of the project design in allowing for
changes to be made to the project goals to meet the overall objectives. For example, where it was
felt that a consultancy was no longer needed due to alternative resources being identified or
financed by other partners then the appropriate changes were made. These types of changes arose
due to the contextual changes that the project experienced since its inception as a result of the
new national strategy, new GF grants and support from other partners.

2.       IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HCTA PROJECT:

In its initial stages the pace of project implementation was slow due to weak coordination among
the three key implementing agencies (MOHSW, MOFDP and NAC), and also due to prolonged
negotiations with candidates for vacancies, over salary packages. Nevertheless, despite its one-
year delay, the project has been successfully completed, having spent approximately 99.9% of its
funding (Refer to Annex 2  Project Financial Summary by Category). Of all the procurement
items only three items will be completed after the project completion date, and will be financed
by GOL. These relate to employment contracts of the Procurement Officer and the Project
Accountant and a short-term M & E Technical Advisor consultancy.

The project appraisal documents set out that the implementing agency for the HCTA project
would be the GFATM Coordination Office within the MOFDP Debt Management Office. It
would be responsible for overseeing project implementation and monitoring. However, as with
the implementation of the GFATM, the PAU within the MOHSW would manage disbursements


                                                 41

of funds against expenditures, account for, and submit Financial Management Reports to draw
down against the IDA Grant; and the procurement of contra actual services and goods under the
proposed HCTA Project would be managed by the Procurement Unit of the MOHSW.

The above arrangement ultimately proved effective in that the project employed existing GOL
structures and capacities within the principal recipient and the two sub-recipients, without adding
huge demand on the existing structures. For example:
     The PAU, which was established within the MOHSW to manage funds of multiple
         external financiers under the Health Sector Reform Program. This unit was used to
         manage disbursements of the TCTA funds.
     Staff of the Health Sector Reforms, e.g. Operations Manager assisted in coordination of
         activities especially in the MOHSW component.

Regular meetings of the representatives of the four components were also held to track
implementation, especially since there was no particular component designated to lead
implementation. Implementation issues were also discussed through the Country Coordinating
Mechanism whenever Global Fund was being reviewed. Missions from the World Bank were also
regularly undertaken to assess implementation issues to do with quality, e.g. financial and
procurement management.

As a result of the above, the project was executed successfully and met its objectives.
Nevertheless some challenges were experienced (as discussed in section 3.2 above) in respect to
coordination among the several implementing agencies, in the initial stages of the project
implementation delay.

Financial Management:
Strengthening of the finance function at the PAU in the MOHSW was considered of vital
importance. It was therefore considered necessary to recruit an additional accountant to handle
directly the issues relating to the HCTA project. Additional training on World Bank Procedures
was also considered necessary for all project accounting staff to enhance proficiency in
accounting for the grant funds.
       Adequate staff were recruited to handle the finance function. In particular, a project
       accountant was recruited specifically for the HCTA project. However, this accountant
       resigned after being on the job for one and a half years, and was duly replaced. Despite this
       resignation, staff turnover has been generally low within the accounting function.
       At the beginning of the project, the finance function was manned by a qualified Finance
       Manager and three Accountants. Currently, the finance function has been strengthened and
       is now manned by the Finance Manager, who is currently handing over to a local Finance
       Manager, and Project Accountants have now been increased to six.
       There was no formalised training for the project accounting staff. However, on-the-job
       training was provided.

The PAU has an established accounting procedures manual, which was customised to include the
operations of the HCTA project. It had been suggested that this manual be reviewed to include
general administrative procedures, financial management procedures, staffing requirements,
identification of accounting and auditing standards to be adhered to by the project, project
reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for banking, and procedures for
the management of cash.

A review of the procedures manual revealed that it was dated November 2001 and that it lacked



                                                 42

evidence of having been subsequently reviewed and updated. As a result, it did not include some
of the issues identified, e.g. staffing requirements, identification of accounting and auditing
standards to be adhered to, procedures for banking, etc.

Financial Covenants and Supervision Plan directed that the PAU would be responsible for
designing appropriate Financial Monitoring Reports and producing and submitting them on a
quarterly basis, starting with the first quarter after effectiveness. These reports should be
reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based Financial Management Specialists (FMS) and the
results or issues followed up during the World Bank supervision missions.
The minimum reports would included:
       Special Account Reconciliation Statement
       Maloti Bank Account Reconciliation Statement
       Project Sources and Uses of Funds
       Uses of Funds by Project Activity / budget v actual
       Contract Status Report
       Project Progress Reporting
       Procurement Reports.

From the results of the project completion evaluation it would appear that:
In general, Financial Monitoring Reports were not being issued quarterly as requested, but only
on an ad hoc basis, e.g. during field visits by the FMS and World Bank missions.
       A special US$ account was opened with the Central Bank of Lesotho for the HCTA
       project. A Maloti account was also opened with Nedbank Lesotho for processing payments
       in local currency. Bank reconciliation statements were being prepared monthly for both
       accounts.
       Project Sources and Uses of Funds were not prepared on a quarterly basis but only annually
       for external audit purposes.
       Current Project Summary By Category reports were being prepared on a quarterly basis.
       These reports reflect Budget v Actual per category, and the contract procurement status.
       Quarterly Monitoring and Evaluation Reports were being issued. These reports show
       project progress for support services, progress on the core components of the essential
       service packages, and district health clinics.

Internal and external Audits:
No internal audits were performed during the life of the HCTA project. Internal audits would
have complemented physical project monitoring efforts.

The Accountant General has a long established internal audit department that has responsibility
for internal audits of all government ministries. However, this department did not audit the HCTA
project. The MOHSW is itself intending to create an in-house internal audit unit, which has been
on the drawing board for the past few years.

It was encouraging to note that the past four-year's annual external audit reports had been
unqualified as regards the HCTA project. It was also encouraging to have noted management's
commitment to implementing external audit recommendations aimed at the improvement of
internal controls.

It was however noted that financial statements had not always been issued on time to meet the
30th September deadline, e.g. March 2006 financials were signed on 12th October 2006 and the
March 2007 financials signed on 17th October 2007. The deadline for the latest March 2008



                                                  43

accounts was however successfully met. The main reason for delays has been identified as delays
in finalizing the financial statements ready for audit.

At the commencement of the HCTA project, the PAU was operating under a Microsoft Access
driven system, which was not an accounting system by definition and as such had several inherent
weaknesses.

During 2005/06, the PAU migrated to FINPRO Accounting Software, which appears to be a
much better system with good access controls. Migration had its few problems, as such some
take-on delays were encountered. The new system is now operating satisfactorily.

FINPRO is however being gradually updated to be able to produce some information requested,
for example, a contracts management system to track contracts.

Procurement:
Lesotho has in the past experienced cases of foreign companies convicted of fraud and corruption
involving donor funds. The area that had been identified as most susceptible to corruption was
procurement, as such, it had been recommended that regular procurement audits be made a formal
requirement.

There were however no formal regular procurement audits undertaken. Apparently, such reviews
had been carried out as part of World Bank mission visits. However, the Bank did not provide the
Procurement Unit with results of such reviews.

As a result of an assessed increase in workload due to the HCTA project, it had been
recommended that initially the MOHSW recruits two additional Purchasing Officers to enhance
capacity.

Secondly, the Procurement Unit was only responsible for procurements of donor funded contracts,
and not procurements of contracts financed by the Government of Lesotho's own budget, which
were done by the stores department. It had been agreed within the MOHSW that the Procurement
Unit would handle the entire procurement. This would also entail additional workload, and thus a
need to restructure the Procurement Unit.

At the beginning of the project, the Procurement Unit was manned by a Procurement Manager,
and two Procurement Officers who were all considered adequately qualified for their positions.

In 2006 a Senior Procurement Officer was recruited specifically for the HCTA project. With the
exception of the Senior Procurement Officer whose contract was not extended when it expired in
August 2008, there has been no staff turnover within the procurement unit.

From March 2007, the procurement staff compliment was increased to be as follows:
     Procurement Manager (one)
     Senior Procurement Officer (one)
     Procurement Officers (three)
     Administrative Secretary (one)
     Driver / Messenger (one)

From March 2008, it became mandatory for all procurement to be handled by the procurement
unit. The procurement unit was therefore strengthened by an additional eight storekeepers to cater



                                                 44

for additional procurement of contracts financed from the Government of Lesotho's own budget.
This staff compliment is however not able to handle work demands. A proposal to further
increase staff was therefore made and approved by the Government of Lesotho's Public Service.
The newly approved structure is as follows:
     Procurement Manager (one)
     Senior Procurement Officers (three)
     Procurement Officers (five)
     Assistant Procurement Officers (eight)
     Procurement Assistants (twelve)
     Administrative Secretary (one)
     Driver / Messenger (one)

Despite initial identification of training needs in the areas of contract administration and contract
dispute handling, no formalised training took place for the procurement staff. Management
however resorted to on-the-job training due to workload and the unavailability of such training
facilities in the country. NB: such training is only available in neighbouring South Africa.

In February 2007, the MOHSW finalised a Procurement Manual for the Health Sector Reform
Programs. This manual was revised in October 2007, and customised to include the operations of
the HCTA project.

At the beginning of the project, it was determined that the filing of procurement documentation
was poor, with retrieval of information being difficult. In order to improve filing and record
keeping, it had initially been considered necessary that the MOHSW should hire a short term
consultant  about six months duration  to review the system and install a system  manual or
electronic  which would enable ease of retrieval of information.

However, with the appointment of a fully qualified and experienced Procurement Manager,
management decided not to hire the consultant. A cursory assessment of the system of filing has
shown great improvement, with all related procurement documentation being filed together, to
enable ease of retrieval. The procurement unit will shortly be designing a checklist to be placed in
front of each procurement file, and performing an audit of each file content against the checklist.
In terms of the procurement and financial management of the project, the overall assessment is
that the procurement and financial management systems supported the project adequately.

3.       PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS:

The Key indicators for the HCTA project are:
    1. Percent of the Global Fund grant disbursed by the end of the Project
    2. Percent of the Global Fund money disbursed through Civil Society Organizations
    3. Percentage of HIV and AIDS sub-projects that have been implemented           in a satisfactory
         manner
    4. Annual reports on all key HIV and AIDS program indicators are produced and
         disseminated

In respect to the above project indicators the project achievements are as follows:

(a) Percent of the Global Fund grant disbursed by the end of the Project: The percentage of
    Global Fund grant disbursement by the end of the project was as follows; R2 HIV/AIDS -
    83% and R2 TB          - 68%.



                                                  45

(b) Percent of the Global Fund disbursed through Civil Society Organizations: There are 15
    sub-recipients supported under the HIV project components, twelve of which are NGOs. The
    percentage of the Global Fund grant disbursement through civil society was 30%.

(c) Percentage of HIV and AIDS sub-projects that have been implemented in a satisfactory
    manner: The percentage of HIV and AIDS sub-projects that had been implemented in a
    satisfactory manner was 99%.

(d) Annual reports on all key HIV and AIDS program indicators are produced and
    disseminated: Project annual/bi-annual reports on all key HIV and AIDS program indicators
    have been prepared and posted to the Global Fund Coordination Unit's website. In addition to
    these reports, among others, the following supplementary reports have been prepared by
    MOHSW and provided to the consultant:
(i)     Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Monitoring and Joint Review Reports prepared
        annually.
(ii)    Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Monitoring and Evaluation Report First and
        Second Quarter of 2008/09 FY
Project indicators are good towards the achievement of the project objective.

4.      EVALUATION THE EXTENT TO WHICH THE PROJECT HELPED TO BUILD
LOCAL CAPACITY:

Support to MOFDP

Under Component One, the project's objective was to specifically finance technical assistance to
strengthen the capacity of the Coordination Office in the MOFDP so that it performs its oversight
role under the GFATM grant agreement.            The MOFDP would be supported to fulfil its
accountability function with regard to the money disbursed to the sub-recipients through the same
technical assistance and by providing it with computers and equipment. The technical assistance
would assist the MOFDP in coordination with the sub-recipients and ensure annual work program
are submitted on time, approved by the Country Coordinating Mechanism, disbursement of funds
to the sub-recipients' account facilitated, ensure adequacy of the financial      controls    and
audits and to ensure timely reporting on the agreed monitoring and evaluation indicators.

The project has successfully supported the MOFDP, in this regard the following were achieved:

Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Coordination Office in the
MOFDP
A Technical Assistant was appointed on a two-year contract. The Technical Assistant was able to
carry out his Terms of Reference successfully during his term of office, which included the
strengthening of capacity within the GFCU.

With the remaining balances earmarked for the TA under MOFDP, who resigned before
completion of his extension contract in 2008, the MOFDP engaged Technical Assistant to further
assisted the Monitoring and Evaluation section of the Department of Social Welfare, by assisting
in the development of an overall M&E Coordination Plan, with manuals, systems, procedures,
tools and data base, flowcharts for data and clearly specifying institutional roles and
responsibilities, an implementation plan and budget. The Technical Assistant also reviewed and
revised the plan for Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC), and also assisted in strengthening
the National Aids Commission's monitoring systems so as to ensure sound output and process
monitoring.


                                                 46

Provision of computers and equipment.
The Project provided the following equipment to the MOFDP:
     Two computers with printers
     One sedan motor car
     25% of office furniture procured by the project

Support to MOHSW

Under Component Two, the aim of the project was to ensure that MOHSW would be better able
to provide access to quality care and treatment to those infected by HIV/AIDS and fulfill its role
as sub-recipient of the GFATM resources.

The project has successfully supported the MOHSW to fulfill its role as a sub-recipient of the
GFATM resources for implementation of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis interventions in the health
sector. The support had originally been planned as assistance to the central MOHSW to enable it
to deliver on its responsibilities through:

Technical assistance to establish the new HIV/AIDS Directorate
A Technical Assistant (Public Health Specialist) was appointed on a two-year contract. This
specialist however resigned after one and half years into the contract in February 2007. Despite
the resignation, the specialist had successfully carried the terms of reference assigned to him,
which included the establishment of a new HIV/AIDS Directorate.

Initially at the beginning of 2004, the HIV/AIDS function was managed by a small division under
the Director Primary Health Care within the MOHSW. This division was inadequate to carry out
the expanded functions of the HIV/AIDS activities, especially with the requirements of the
implementation of the Global Fund grant. This function has now been restructured. The revised
organogram currently has the following posts:

        Director  HIV and AIDS
        Program Manager  Counseling and Home Based Care
              - Program Officer  Counseling
              - Program Officer  Home Based Care

        Program Manager  HIV Treatment and Care
              - Program Officer  HIV Care
              - Program Officer  Pediatric HIV
              - Program Officer  ART, Prevention and Management of Opportunistic
                Infections

With the assistance of the Technical Assistant, all staff was trained and is by and large now
capable of effectively responding to the various challenges in the prevention, control and care of
HIV/AIDS.

The Technical Assistant contributed to the capacity building of staff at both central and district
levels by conducting training based on training material he assisted in developing, which included
the following:
     Integrated Management of Adolescent and Adult Illness (IMAI) Acute Care Participant
         Training Manual, which supports acute care short courses on opportunistic infections,



                                                47

         provider-initiated testing and counseling, mental health and neurological problems, and
         STI's and other genitourinary problems.
     Chronic HIV Care with ARV Therapy (Guidelines for health workers at health centre or
         clinics at district hospital outpatients).
     Palliative Care: symptom management and end-of-life care.

The Technical Assistant further assisted in the development of:
     An HIV/AIDS Policy for the MOHSW
     A National Aids Strategic Plan
     Annual Operational Plans
     ARV Treatment Guidelines.

Based on progress achieved, it is concluded that the HCTA project's input towards the
establishment of a new HIV/AIDS directorate, with its expanded function, has been successful.

Provision of equipment and training to the Monitoring and Evaluation M&E) Unit

The project completion evaluation has concluded that strengthening of the M&E unit has been
successful under the HCTA funding. This funding was utilized as follows;
    a) Technical Assistance: Initially, it had been planned to engage the services of a
         Monitoring and Evaluation firm on a two-year contract to provide support to the M&E
         function. However, it was later decided in consultation with the World Bank that the
         services of a firm were no longer necessary, since a strong M&E unit had been
         established within the MOHSW through the Health Sector Reform Programs, and also to
         save on costs. The M&E unit has been receiving training in Health Management
         Information Systems by funding from other development partners, which included the
         Irish Aid. The training was provided by an M&E Technical Advisor. This M&E advisor
         was funded by the Irish Aid on a long-term contract. When the contract ended, the
         services of this consultant were still deemed necessary. To this effect, the HCTA project
         was flexible enough to offer a short-term contract to the advisor so that he could
         complete his work in strengthening the M&E unit.
    b) Provision of Equipment: One four-wheel drive vehicle was provided for supervision of
         district health information offices under the HCTA project funding. NB: The HCTA
         project was complemented by the Health Sector Reform (Phase II), with the provision of
         computers for each of the ten district health information officers, and long-term contracts
         for them.

Technical assistance to the Procurement Unit
Initially, it had been considered necessary for the MOHSW to hire a short-term consultant (about
six months duration) to assist with a record keeping system for the procurement unit, and to
provide formalized training for the procurement staff especially in contract administration and
contract dispute handling.

However, with the appointment of a fully qualified and experienced Procurement Manager,
management decided not to hire the consultant. NB: The procurement unit appears to be robust. A
cursory assessment of the procurement function has shown that the project objectives were still
met despite the decision not to hire the consultant.




                                                   48

Strengthening of the Project Accounting Unit (PAU) with the provision of additional
accounting staff and computers
At the beginning of the project, the finance function was manned by a qualified Finance Manager
and three Accountants. Currently, the finance function has been strengthened and is now manned
by the Finance Manager, who is currently handing over to a local Finance Manager, and the
Project Accountants have now been increased to six, of whom one was supported by the HCTA
project. The others being supported by other development partners such as, Global Fund and the
Irish Aid.

The HCTA project has contributed to the strengthening of the PAU by financing the procurement
of six computers, three printers, upgrading of the accounting system to the FINPRO Accounting
System, and other sundry assets such as, mobile filer, office chairs and a fridge.

Other financial management issues have been dealt with in more detail under section 3.5 above.

Support for leadership training to enhance the management capacity within the Ministry at
all levels
In order to implement the Global Fund grants, competent leadership was required to plan and
manage the project appropriately. To ensure this a consulting firm was appointed to provide
Leadership Training to senior management within the MOHSW. To this effect, the consultant
performed a detailed cultural management analysis on senior management of the MOHSW, and
recommendations to improve management practices were discussed and agreed. The training
provided was generally good, however, the impact of the training and follow-up on the cultural
management analysis, had not been that effective possibly due to resistance to change as
evidenced by a general lack or delay in the implementation of the consultant's recommendations.

Support to the National Drug and Supplies Organization
The project has successfully supported the National Drug and Supplies Organisation (NDSO), by
enabling it to fulfil its role of procuring and distributing health sector goods as follows;

Medium term technical assistance to enable NDSO to conduct procurement using
international competitive bidding
Initially, the project appraisal had identified that there was a general lack of expertise in the
procuring of health sector goods where international competitive bidding was to be used. As a
result, the HCTA project financed the appointed of a consultant to strengthen the procurement
department. To this end, Health Research for Action (HERA) was engaged on a consultancy
contract.

HERA advised structural changes to be made to the procurement function. A separate
Procurement Department was created, and is currently fully manned as follows;
      One Manager
      Two Assistant Managers
      Four Procurement Officers
      One Procurement Clerk.

HERA has successfully developed a procurement manual and bidding documents specifically for
the procurement of health sector goods. The procurement manual and the bidding documents
have been found to be appropriate and are currently being used by the Procurement Department.
HERA provided a seven-day general training workshop to all the procurement staff. This training
was followed-up by placement of a Resident Procurement Advisor (from HERA), who was



                                                   49

assigned on a full time basis to NDSO for a period of eighteen months, and provided on-the-job
training to the procurement staff.
NB: The initial twelve month period was funded by the HCTA project, whilst the remaining six
month period was funded by the Round 5 grant. The HERA consultancy came to an end on 28th
February 2008. The procurement department has since been operating efficiently on its own. It is
therefore concluded that the objective of capacitating the NDSO to enable it to conduct
procurement by using international competitive bidding has been successfully met.

Support to strengthen inventory management and security at all hospitals
The HERA consultancy was utilized to provide support to strengthening of inventory
management and security at hospitals. HERA successfully assisted in developing the following;
     Drug Supply Manual
     Lesotho Standard Operating Procedures (LESOPS)

These procedures have provided guidance as to how health sector goods are to be received and
distributed, e.g., an "Internal Requisition Voucher" was designed to facilitate the distribution of
goods. Also, as part of LESOPS, "Supervision Tools" were developed as a checklist to assist
supervision teams in reviewing inventory management and security arrangements at the various
hospitals.

The hospitals, both Government and CHAL now have the systems of Drugs Supply Management
in place and the Standard Operating Procedures in place. As such, it is concluded that the project
objective of strengthening inventory management has been successfully met. Specific
recommendations were also made in providing security measures of health sector goods at
hospitals. However, no formal assessment has yet been made to determine the effectiveness of
security arrangements at hospitals, following implementation of the recommendations.

Expansion of warehousing capability of NDSO
Warehousing capability has been strengthened by an additional 1000 square meters, by the
construction of a new warehouse at the NDSO. This new warehouse is fitted with air conditioners,
and is now fully functional. The additional warehousing facility of 1000 square meters provided
some relief to the already constraint warehousing facilities of the organization. In addition,
NDSO has made another funding request towards the construction of additional 2800 square
meters warehousing facilities. This additional funding request has been precipitated by the fact
that NDSO continues to receive huge volumes of health sector goods funded by both the
Government of Lesotho and the donors.

The Consultant visited the NDSO warehouse in Mafeteng and observed that it was indeed
functional and that the access road to the new warehouse has also been upgraded. There was
however a six-month delay in the finalization of construction. It is possible that the contractor had
been experiencing cash flow problems however, this cannot be independently confirmed. From
discussions with management, appears that this weakness could not have been easily foreseen,
since adequate procurement processes had been followed in the recruitment of the contractor.

Support the creation of a strong logistics system for laboratory services
The original intension of utilizing funding from the HCTA project was suspended, as the Central
Laboratory had indicated that they would secure financing from other development partners.

Support to the Secretariat of the National AIDS Commission
The project has successfully supported the National Aids Commission in terms of its original



                                                50

objectives. Under Component Three, the project's objective was to finance engagement of a firm
to:
     Generate and manage proposals submitted for funding through LAPCA
     Strengthen the District AIDS Coordinators and the District AIDS Task Forces through
         regular training activities
     Monitor implementation by the civil society, private and public sector grant-recipients
         and
     Ensure that appropriate fiduciary safeguards and procedures are in place without
         constraining implementation

In this regard the project appointed Crown Agents (the firm), on a two-year contract, for the grant
management process. The consultants successfully completed their assignments, with the end
result being:
    a) The establishment of the NAC Grant Management Unit, which is fully staffed and
         operational.
    b) preparation of procurement manual (with the help of a part-time procurement       specialist
         provided by the firm) which was jointly developed and work-shopped by the consultants
         and NAC.
    c) Support of line ministries and civil society.

In addition to the forgoing, a consultant was engaged to prepare the National Behavioral Change
Communication Strategy (BCC Strategy). The overall goals of the National BCC Strategy were
as follows:
 Reduce the spread of HIV in Lesotho through prevention interventions
 Provide equitable care and support for those infected by HIV
 Mitigate the impact of HIV and AIDS such that it is no longer of public health, social and
    economic concern
 Ensure that all Basotho will be able to achieve socially and economically productive lives
    free of the infection and its effects

The strategy focused on the following outcomes:
 Create an enabling environment for behavioral change by increasing leadership and gender
    equality and by reducing stigma associated with people living with HIV and AIDS.
 Increased adoption of safer sexual behavior and reduction in high-risk behavior.
 Increased use of HIV prevention services
 Enhanced national, district and organizational frameworks to address behavior change.

Provide assistance to develop community based monitoring and evaluation capacity for
implementers at the district and sub-district levels
This assistance was provided through the National Aids Commission Directorate  Policy &
Stakeholders, by;
 Capacitating district staff and communities on the management of M&E systems.
 Producing the Geographical Information System and distributing it to all stakeholders and
    districts.

Provide assistance to public sector line ministries to develop fundable proposal for
mainstreaming HIV/AIDS and support their implementation
This assistance was provided through the Crown Agent's grant management consultancy.
Evaluation of the above is that the project has managed to support the secretariat of the National
AIDS Commission through provision of the above-mentioned consultancies



                                                51

Support for Civil Society and Private Sector Capacity Development
The object of this was to support capacity building to enable civil society and faith based
organizations, traditional institutions and communities to develop viable proposals, implement
such proposals and fulfil the reporting requirements for disbursements under the GF agreement.
The formal and informal private sector would also be supported to increase their capacity to
implement HIV/AIDS activities with resources provided through the national program. Specific
activities for financing under this component included:
(a)      assistance to enable improved coordination of civil society activities at the national level
         through dedicated NGO and private sector focal persons located in LAPCA and
(b)      contracting a civil society consortium that has substantial grass-roots involvement to
         work with medium and small NGOs and CBOs in developing proposals and in
         implementation.

To achieve the above objectives the Civil Society Support Consultancy was designed and
Armstrong Associates Consulting (Pty) Ltd engaged to undertake it. The consultancy began in
July 2007. The original period of engagement was 11 months to June 2008. The consultancy
was originally intended to provide direct support to non-governmental entities to strengthen their
involvement in the national response to HIV/AIDS and more specifically, to improve core
organizational capacities related to development and implementation HIV/AIDS programs
supported by the Global Fund grants. The specific deliverables included a rapid assessment of
civil society response to HIV/AIDS in Lesotho, an inventory of organizations involved in
HIV/AIDS, capacity assessment of umbrella bodies, program of work to strengthen capacity of
selected umbrella bodies and guidance. By June 2008 the rapid assessment and the detailed
capacity assessment of civil organizations were completed detailing specific challenges facing the
civil organizations, ranging from unstable funding environment to gaps in organizational capacity.

The consultancy was subsequently extended to December 2008 with modified terms of reference
and work plan.

During the extension period the consultancy achieved the following:

 Ongoing technical advice and support was provided to LCN Board and staff to assist the
    organization to prepare for its Principal Recipient (PR) responsibilities under the Global Fund
    Round 8 grant to Lesotho.
 governance training for LIRAC executive committee members and development of a
    Constitution and start-up work-plan for the Business and Labor Coalition on HIV and AIDS.
 Ongoing advice and support was provided to CCM, GFCU and other stakeholders on the
    preparations required to support multiple PRs under dual-track financing arrangements.
 Provision of additional support, including working with GFCU and CCM to revise the Round
    8 funding proposal and to prepare for its final approval. The consultant also worked with
    FIDA and the Lesotho Law Reform Commission to develop a funding request for OSISA.
 Finally, the consultant facilitated a number of networking and exchange opportunities to
    solidify a common vision for civil society development amongst all stakeholders.

Evaluation of the above is that the project has managed to support civil Society and private
sector capacity development through the consultancy discussed above. It is also noted that the
Consultant went further to provide technical assistance on other areas.

Evaluate the status of government/partner coordination



                                                52

The Government has shown strong commitment to achieving development objectives, together
with the World Bank which has been involved in HIV/AIDS in Lesotho for almost two decades
and, as such, it has very good institutional memory and has developed a very strong working
relationship with the Government of Lesotho. The following mechanisms were developed to
improve Government/Partner coordination:

   i.   Quarterly joint review meetings with partners
  ii.   Annual joint review meeting with partners
 iii.   Sector wide approach in planning, procurement monitoring and evaluation and financial
        management through the PAU.

There was evidence that annual joint review meetings were regularly held as scheduled and
appeared to be very informative. In the past year quarterly review meetings had also been held
however not that regular. The World Bank also undertook regular missions to monitor and advise
project implementation.

The above-mentioned mechanisms led to improved coordination and collaboration of all
stakeholders and the attainment of set project development objectives and goals.

Evaluation the Project Risks
During the inception of the project the critical risks were identified as follows:
     1. Risk to project development objective: Internal politics undermine decisions on how the
        GFATM will be managed. Potential conflict among partners.
        Risk Mitigating Measure: Preparation has engaged wide range of stakeholders and the
        approach utilises existing institutions.
        Risk Rating: Modest
        Observation: The risk rating has been proved to be modest. No major disputes on project
        management were experienced with the MOFDP being the key driver of the process,
        through the Global Fund Coordination Unit.

     2. Risk to project development objective: The areas targeted for capacity support are not
        sufficient to support GFATM implementation.
        Risk Mitigating Measure: The project covers procurement, financial management, M&E,
        logistics management and the engagement of civil society. The project builds upon
        experience under the existing Health Sector Reform Project and its HIV/AIDS
        component.
        Risk Rating: Modest
        Observation: The Risk rating was evaluated appropriately as modest. Even though the
        project could not cover all areas of possible support, its focus was to finance services,
        training and goods in support of HIV/AIDS interventions using GFATM financial
        resources. In this regard it achieved its mandate.

     3. Risk to project development objective: GFATM Resources become insufficient to meet
        demand
        Risk Mitigating Measure: IDA's involvement will ensure that additional HIV/AIDS
        funds are mobilised to support the national program in the event.
        Risk Rating: Low
        Observation: At the inception of the project it was noted that "in the Lesotho context,
        additional funds for implementation are not the priority, rather what is required is
        implementation support to facilitate the use of the GFATM resources. If additional gaps
        remain, the Bank can step in to provide traditional MAP grant funding".



                                                  53

       At this point in time the GFATM resources appear to be sufficient to meet the short to
       medium-term requirements. To date the resources are US$ 113 million (see 3.1 above).
       Of this amount US$ 58.7 million has been approved, US$ 43 million disbursed and US$
       27.3 million utilised as reported in the June 2008 Bi-annual Report For the Global Fund
       Support to The Kingdom of Lesotho.

   4. Risk to project development objective: Debates over the role of LAPCA, the NAC and the
       Secretariat. Delay in the appointment of staff who will both manage and benefit from the
       TA.
       Risk Mitigating Measure: Consultant TORs will indicate specifically which institutions
       and actors consultants are expected to work with. Hiring consultants will alleviate the
       staffing shortage in the short-term.
       Risk Rating: Substantial
       Observation: Indeed, there was delay in project implementation due to the establishment
       of NAC and phasing out of LAPCA during the project's conception hence the
       confirmation of the original risk rating. The prerequisite condition that funds earmarked
       for NAC would only be disbursed once the Chief Executive was appointed, is a case in
       point.

   5. Risk to project development objective: Procurement of consultant services is delayed -
       and thus delays GFATM implementation.
       Risk Mitigating Measure: Partners will assist in the production of TORs, RFPs and short-
       listing. TORs and advertisements will be drafted prior to Negotiations.         AfDB has
       financed a Procurement Manager for unit.
       Risk Rating: Substantial
       Observation: Due to the delay of project implementation procurement of Consultant's
       services was delayed, thus unavoidable delay of GFATM implementation. Despite these
       delays the HCTA project has been successful and appears to be completed within the
       anticipated time frame (Development Grant Agreement signed on 5 August 2004 and
       project completed on 31 December 2008).

   6. Risk to project development objective: Qualified firms do not respond to the RFPs.
       Risk Mitigating Measure: Work has been bundled into large contracts, so as to attract
       experienced firms. Consultancies will be advertised in Development Business as well as
       through sector-specific avenues.
       Risk Rating: Modest
       Observation: This risk was indeed modest, but in one instance, namely appointment of a
       consulting firm for capacity building at NDSO and for the development of training
       manuals, guidelines, SOPs, logistics and training for Queen II laboratory, the risk became
       substantial.

5.     LESSON LEARNED
Lessons learned from the project can be summed up as follows:
    The use of existing GOL structures in managing the project proved valuable, rather than
       trying to set-up new structures for each new project.
    Flexibility of the project increased its chances of success.
    This was a unique project in the sense that it was designed specifically to support another,
       and proved effective. The HCTA supported the Global Fund grants successfully.
    At project design project leadership should have been clearly defined.



                                               54

6       RECOMMENDATIONS

To the Client
a)      Despite on the job training, there is need for more formalized training on a regular basis
        on bank procedures to enhance proficiency in accounting for grant funds. Also, there is
        need for regular formalized training for procurement staff especially in contract
        administration and contract dispute handling.
b)      The PAU should ensure that the Accounting Procedures Manual is reviewed and updated
        to include general administrative procedures, financial management procedures, staffing
        requirements, identification of accounting and auditing standards to be adhered to by the
        project, project reporting an monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for
        banking, and procedures for the management of cash.
c)      In order to meet the 30th September deadline for submission of audited financial
        statements to the World Bank, financial statements should be finalized on time to provide
        external auditors reasonable time to perform a thorough audit.
d)      The establishment of an in-house Internal Audit Unit for the MOHSW should be
        accelerated. In the meantime, management should ensure the utilization of the existing
        internal audit department established by the accountant general, so as to compliment
        project monitoring efforts.
e) The procurement unit should design a File Contents Checklist to be placed in front of each
    procurement file, and perform an audit of each file content against the checklist.
f) Recommendations made by the Leadership Training consultant on the cultural management
    analysis should be revisited. Management      should establish a timetable of implementation
    and follow-up of recommendations.
g) Following recommendations to improve security measures at hospitals, management should
    consider performance of half-yearly reviews aimed at determining the effectiveness of
    security arrangements of health sector goods at the various hospitals.
h) The PU must see to it that it receives copies of audits or reviews undertaken as part of World
    Bank mission visits (e.g. procurement review). Such reviews would enable the MOHSW
    Procurement Unit with feedback, which would enable it to take corrective measures as
    necessary.

To the World Bank
A second phase (Phase II) of the HCTA should be considered in order to successfully implement
Round 6, 7 and 8.


(b)     BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR
As highlighted in the document, the World Bank support came at the time when Lesotho was
faced with tremendous challenges in the fight against HIV pandemic, and with few donors and
Partners supporting the HIV interventions. Through the support from World Bank and
complemented from other Partner's support, capacity strengthening from different stakeholders
was achieved, taking into consideration more so, the Monitoring, supervision and evaluation
systems which were very weak from central to district levels. The World Bank, Global Fund ,
Government of Lesotho and others managed to put in place Monitoring and Evaluation systems
within the MOHSW, MOFDP/GFCU as well NAC in order to strengthen data collection ,
reporting and collation of data from district to central level in order to assist the management to
make decisions for HIV interventions for Prevention, care, support and treatment as well as
mitigating the challenges brought about by HIV pandemic.. Furthermore, capacity strengthening
in terms of capacity skills, human resources were put in place at all levels from central to District
level. Example is establishment of M&E Units with NAC and MOHSW which resulted in the



                                                55

development of National M&E framework, Global Fund M&E Plan to mention but few.

Moreover, the World Bank support came at the time when the Civil Society was in limbo and
needed guidance in order to contribute meaningfully to fight the HIV. Through the engagement of
the Civil Society consultant, umbrella bodies were engaged consultatively to discuss their needs,
and the challenges in relation to their capacity building. It is through these consultations that Civil
Society groups were able to contribute substantively in the development of R8 Proposal, outlining
the needs of the communities and even managed to ensure that NGO was selected to be one of the
PR for R8.

One can therefore conclude that because of the support from World Bank, Lesotho has moved
forward and achieved positive strives in terms of ability for resource mobilization for Funds to
fight, treat and mitigate the impact of HIV/ AIDS to date; managed to strengthen Monitoring and
evaluation systems throughout all levels. One can therefore agree with the findings that had been
documented in the report.

However, the support that was provided was not sufficient especially from the Civil Society
perspective in strengthening the community to ensure that they have necessary requirement to
assists the chronically ill as well as the OVC. More efforts were needed in terms of logistics as
communities were trained to care for the sick, but not given the means to carry out their work
effectively. They were further trained as carers, but unfortunately not trained and provided with
tools to report their good work at community level, as a result, information was not properly
documented which would be used to make decisions for interventions required at the lowest level.

The weak coordination of the HTCA resulted in the slow implementation coupled with
inconsistent inappropriate follow up in dealing with the challenges. Implementation by various
coordinating bodies or beneficiaries of the grant posed critical challenges in relation to efficient
and effective implementation of the grant. To this effect, the Steering committee which was put in
place to monitor the implementation needed that individual (Person/Coordinator) to coordinate
and ensure that meetings were held accordingly and that implementation took place as planned. It
is against this background that for effective and efficient implementation for future grants, a
person within any structure that may be identified either MOFDP or MOHSW should be engaged
specifically and be mandated to fully coordinate the grant in order to avoid unnecessary delays
that in resulted in slow and problems to absorb funds. Furthermore, careful consideration of
priority of activities to be supported should be taken into account in order to avoid under budget
on key activities in order to achieve quality and meaningful results.




                                                 56

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Global Fund comments:

We agree with the key findings expressed in this report, including the way forward for the future
capacity building support by the World Bank to Lesotho. We also endorse the ratings of the ICR,
which are well deserved considering the whole period of the HTCA project.

The HTCA was first of its kind in the Southern Africa region for the Global Fund. At the end of
the Round 2 HIV grant life cycle22, and at the World Bank HTCA evaluation stage, one can
confidently conclude - from the evolution of the grant implementation and performance record
(unsatisfactory to excellent) that the HTCA project has been highly successful. It followed
thorough assessment of needs at the onset of the Global Fund portfolio in Lesotho back in 2003.
Its design was appropriate and the interventions targeted to facilitate the absorption of the Global
Fund grant funding for the purpose of HIV/AIDS scale up in program delivery and the systems
strengthening around the HIV/AIDS response.

The World Bank intervention concerned the key institutions coordinating and carrying the
HIV/AIDS response, MOFDP, MOHSW and NAC, in addition to civil society organizations. All
three named institutions' management considerably improved in the course of the grant
implementation. However, and although one of the key interventions, Grant Management
Services (Crown Agents placed in NAC Secretariat) was somewhat misaligned with the MOFDP
needs for improved Global Fund grant management, we are positive that the capacity building
investment in NAC grant management has contributed to the improved Round 2 grant
management. We remain optimistic that it will result in NAC being increasingly involved in
supporting the current and future Global Fund portfolio of grants (Round 5, Round 7, Round 8
and beyond), in addition to their proven active engagement and contributions in the workings
of the Global Fund grant oversight body in the country, which is the CCM.

It would also be prudent for the report to endeavor to capture the extraordinarily huge challenges
around the Round 2 grant implementation during the first 18 months (2004-2005), partly co-
relating to the delays/conditions precedent to the commencement of HTCA as described. These
implementation challenges and weak systems lead to the Global Fund so-called "No Go"
recommendation for Phase 2, which at the time meant that the HTCA was risking of being
endangered as a result of the threat of discontinued funding  if the CCM/country partners had
not provided compelling evidence of efforts made during the first two years towards improving
grant performance. The threat of discontinued funding de-stabilized the grant cycle and lead to its
extension, by 6 months, beyond the 5 year period.

As can be seen from the variance in the HTCA financial allocations, the civil society did not
manage to utilize the expected/planned funding by a significant margin. This is probably justified
by country context but it is nonetheless regrettable. It would therefore be beneficial if the report
could endeavor to provide more in-depth analysis of possible underlying causes for this variance.

Finally, the financial component of the HTCA grant does not appropriately capture the MOFDP
lead modification of the grant support structure in Lesotho for the Global Fund, i.e. moving the



22 5 and  years, as the grant was approved 6 months no-cost extension



                                                57

financial management of the Round 2 grant away from the PAU in 2008 and establishing its own
financial management structure within the GFCU of the MOFDP. The move was due to the PR
absorptive capacity problems and lower volume disbursements than those projected per years.
This move improved the Round 2 grant financial management of the PR after decongesting the
PAU of Global Fund non-MOHSW related transactions and improved the Round 2 grant
absorption capacity which, at the closing of the grant is at 98.5%, where USD 28,884,104 have
been disbursed against the budget of USD 29,312,000.

The Round 2 HIV/AIDS grant is in the process of closing at the moment, with the program period
end date being 30 June 2009.




                                               58

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project supervision mission aide memoirs and ISRs

2. Background Paper on HIV/AIDS prepared for the 9th Round Table Conference

3. Annual report on the National Response to HIV/AIDS 2006

4. Analysis of HIV Prevention Response and Modes of HIV Transmission 2007.

5. Gender and multiple and concurrent sexual partnerships in Lesotho. Preliminary report and
    findings , November 2008

6. National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-2011

7. National HIV/AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Plan 2006-2011

8. Lesotho UNGASS Country Report (2008)

9. Project Appraisal Document of HIV/AIDS Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
    Project, 2009.

10. UNAIDS, Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic, 2008.


11. GFATM Round -2, Lesotho Grant Scorecard, December 2005.


12. GFATM Round -2, Lesotho Addendum to Grant Scorecard post receipt of CCM response to
    Secretariat proposed `No Go' recommendation.

13. GFATM Round -2, Lesotho Grant Performance Report, August, 2008.


14. GFATM Coordinated Country Proposal for Lesotho, September, 2002.




                                             59

