Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
14. Al                           C4
Repout No. 7659-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1989
Industry, Trade and Finance Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit - Yuan Renminbi Y)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Y per $, year average      1.89   1.98   2.32   2.96   3.45   3.72   3.72
DecemL3r 1985      Y 3.20 - $1.0
Y 1.00 - $0.31
December 1986      Y 3.72 - $1.0
through
December 1988      Y 1.00 - 0.27
(In this report $ refers to US$)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC    -   Agricultural Bank of China
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BOC    -   Bank of China
BOCOM  -   Bank of Communications
CIB    -   China Investment Bank
CITIC  -   China International Trust and Investment   Corporation
CMD    -   Credit Management Department
CNTIC  -   China National Technical Import Corporation
DFC    -   Development Finance Company
EDI    -   Economic Deveiopment Institute
EDPS   -   Electronic Data Processing System
FTC    -   Foreign Trade Corporations
FXAC   -   Foreign Exchange Adjustment Center
GOC    -   Government of China
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
ICBC   -   Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
KfW    -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
PBC    -   People's Bank of China (the Central Bank)
PCBC   -   People's Construction Bank of China
RCC    -   Rural Credit Cooperative
SAA    -   State Audit Administration
SAEC   -   State Administration of Exchange Control
SEC    -   State Economic Commission
SPC    -   State Planning Commission
TA     -   Technical Assistance
TVE    -   Township and Village Enterprises
UCC    -   Urban Credit Cooperative
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
Fifth Industrial Cred!t Proiect (Cis v)
Staff Auraisal xeDort
Table of Contents
Paie
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .iii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                       1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR.                                              2
A. Structure and Performance.                                      2
B. Main Sectoral Issues and the
Government's Strategy.                                        3
C. Bank Support for Industry.                                      5
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.                                               7
A. Institutional Framework.                                        7
B. Main Sectoral Issues and Reforms.                               8
C. Bank Strategy .13
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT    ..13
A. Project Objectives and Components .13
B. CIB's Institutional Aspects .15
C. CIB's Past and Planned Operations .22
D. CIB's Financial Performance. Position
and Projections .27
V. THE BANK LOAN .30
A. Main Features of the Loan .30
B. Procurement and Disbursements .32
C. Reporting and Auditing Requirements .33
D. Benefits and Ri3ks .33
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Zafar Shah Khan (Mission Chief), Carlo Punsalan and Kyung Song,
which visited China in January 1989. The report also reflects
contributions made at pre-appraisal by Messrs. Hang Tuck Kun, Tan Aik
Hong and Johannes Schoter (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
ANNEXES
1. Interest Rate Changes .37
2. Development Strategy Statement .38
3. Statement of Operating and Financial Policies .41
4. Training Program .45
S. Actual and Planned Term Loan Operations .46
6. Loan Approvals by Sector and Branch .                            47
7. Sectoral and Geographical Distribution
of Subprojects under CIB I, II, III and IV .48
8. Project Implementation Schedule .50
9. Key Monitoring Indicators .51
10. Actual and Planned Lending, Investments and
Fee-Generating Operations .52
11. Actual and Planned Resource Mobilization .53
12. Actual and Projected Income Statements .54
13. Actual and Projected Funds Flow Statements.                       5
14. Actual and Projected Balance Sheets .56
15. Actual and Projected Key Financial Ratios .57
16. Projected Disbursement Schedule .58
17. Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File .59
FIGURES
CIB Organization .60
HAP
IBRD - 21327 China - Fifth Industrial Credit Project



-iii 
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CIB V)
Loan and Proiect Sunmary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:            $300.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Twenty years, including five years' grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to CIB for a 20-
year term, including a 5-year grace period, at a variable
rate equal to the Bank rate; CIB would pay a commitment
fee equal to that under the loan. Subborrowers would pay
a variable interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus a
minimum spread of 1.5Z and would carry the foreign
exchange risk between the Bank's currency pool and the
yuan. However, subborrowers with a loan of less than
$1 million would have the option of only carrying the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the yuan,
subject to payment of an appropriate fee to CIB for
carrying the exchange risk between the currency pool and
the US dollar.
Project
Description:    The project includes the following components to be
financed under the proposed Bank loan: (a) industrial
credit of $299 million for the financing of small- and
medium-sized restructuring projects in the light industry
sector and the removal of the sector's operational
bottlenecks; and (b) technical assistance of $1 million
for CIB to train staff and introduce an electronic data
processing system for accounting and financial management
information system.
Benefits
and Risks:       The project would further the institutional development
of CIB, including the introduction of new products and
services. This strengthening would help prepare CIB to
face newly emerging competition effectively and would
support the institutional deepening that is critical to
the success of the reform effort. The project would also
help upgrade the productivity and efficiency of about 200
small- and medium-scale industrial projects by importing
modern technology and other inputs. The project risks
relate mainly to CIB's sustained and successful
institution-building. The assurances the Bank has



- iv -
obtained from CIB management and the government's
commitment to financial sector reform should ensure
successful implementationi of the project and realization
of its objectives.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual         15.0    81.0    96.0    60.0    33.0    15.0
Cumulative    15.0    96.0   192.0   252.0   285.0   300.0



CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CIB V)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The development of China's industry has been particularly
hampered by a weak financial sector and the lack of suitable intermediaries
for delivering medtum- and long-term finance. Indeed, until 1984 banks in
China were little more than fiscal agents for the government. As one of
the measures to remedy this weakness, in 1982 GOC established the China
Investment Bank (CIB). Four IBRD/IDA operations (totalling $645.6 million)
have assisted CIB in its rapid growth as a financial intermediary
specializing in investment loans for small- and medium-sized restructuring
projects, sponsored mainly by enterprises in the light industry sector.
CIB is also the financial intermediary for the Tianjin Light Industry
Project, the first Bank-assisted regional industrial project in China,
approved by the Board in February 1989. During its relatively short
existence, CIB has made rapid progress in developing its staff and
operating systems and in adopting a more commercially oriented style.
However, its institutional deepening has sometimes lagged behind the
expansion of its organizational structure and operations. Thus, there is a
need for continued and vigorous efforts to strengthen its staff and
procedures.
1.2       CIB has prepared a new development strategy and operational and
financial plans based thereon for 1989-92. Its main focus is on further
institutional development and continued investment financing of its
traditional clientele. i.e., state enterprises .la the light industry
sector, where over the years, CIB has developed a special expertise.
However, it plans some diversification through a modest increase in its
assistance to collective enterprises, a change that is justified in view of
their growing importance in China and the relative dynamism of the nonstate
sector. CIB has also started to introduce, although on a limited scale in
the beginr._ng, new products (mainly working capital financing and equity
investments, including leasing operations) and services (guarantees,
managed loans, letters of credits, etc.) for its clients and has made
progress in diversifying its resource base. These are welcome moves, as
Bank experience shows that the performance of financial intermediaries has
generally been better when they have diversified their sources of funds by
mobilizing savings from the marl -., have provided a variety of financial
products and services and have o  rated in a competitive environment.
1.3       The fourth industrial credit project (CIB IV) of $300 million
became effective on June 22, 1987 and was almost fully committed by the end
of 1988, much ahead of the or.ginal schedule. Although CIB has started
borrowing from The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and international capital
markets, it still needs continued Bank support for further institutional
development and enhancement of financial resources. The proposed CIB V
project would help implement CIB's new development strategy and operational
plan. Particular emphasis would be given to its further institutional



- 2 -
strengthening, including the development of new products. which will in
turn strengthen its ability to compete and survive in the rapidly changing
financial environment of China. During the project preparation stage, the
Bank assisted CIB management and staff in planning new products and
services. For example, key CIS staff visited merchant and commercial banks
in other countries, aid senior staff of two such banks participated in the
pre-appraisal of the project.
1.4       The proposed CIB V project includes:  (a) financial assistance in
the form of an industrial credit of $299.0 million for the light industry
sector; and (b) technical assistance (TA) of $1.0 million for CIB's further
institutional strengthening, mainly through an expanded staff training
program that meets its needs for new and improved skills and through the
import or computer hardware and software.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance
2.1       Industry makes up about half of China's GDP and employs 182 of
the total labor force. About 97,600 state enterprises generate 62% of
total industrial output with the remainder produced by more than a million
enterprises, mainly urban and rural collectives.  Gross industrial output,
valued at Y 1,3S1 billion ($371 billion) in 1987, is shared almost equally
by light and heavy industry.
2.2       The gross value of industrial production grew at 10.82 in real
terms p.a. in 1978-87, a reflection in large part of the high rate of
capital accumulation in industry. The gross output of light industry
increased by an average of 12.8Z p.a. during the same period, w..ich was
substantially faster than that of heavy industry (Table 2.1) and which came
about mainly because of the economic reforms initiated in 1979.
Table 2.1: CHINA--INDUSTRIAL GROWTH TRENDS
(percent)
Average Annual
Growth Rate           Share in Output
1952-78     1978-87    1978 a/    1987 b/
Gross industrial output         11.3        10.8     100.0       100.0
Heavy industry                13.6         9.1      57.3        49.9
Light industry                 9.1        12.8      42.7        50.1
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of China, 1987, 1988
a/ At 1970 constant prices.
b/ At 1980 constant prices.



- 3 -
2.3       Over the two decades from the mid-fifties to mid-seventies,
Chinese industry was oriented mainly toward the rapidly growing domestic
market. Since then, Chinese manufactured exports have grown rapidly from
around $3 billion equivalent in 1975, to about $9 billion equiv4le-it in
1980 and $26 billion equivalent in 1987. This impressive performance was
sustained by strong growth in exports from light industry, which doubled in
nominal terms during 1984-87 (Table 2.2) and accounted for nearly two-
thirds of the total exports of manufactured goods. The share of exports in
industrial value added was 18.2? in 1987.
Table 2.2:  CHINA--STRUCTURE OF EXPORT COMMODITIES
($ billion)
- --------- Exports --------   - Share (Z) -
1984   1985    1986   1987    1984   1987
Total va'ue of exports       25.0   27.3   31.4    39.5   100.0  100.0
Primary exports            11.4   13.9   11.4    13.3    45.6   33.7
Manufactured goods         13.6   13.4   20.0    26.2    54.4   66.3
Heavy industry a/        4.6    3.6    6.4       8.6    18.4   21.6
Light industry           9.0    9.8   13.6    17.6    36.0   44.7
Source:  China Customs Statistics, 1986/1, 1987/1, 1988/1.
a/ Includes chemical products.
B. Main Sectoral Issues and the Government's Strategy
Pre-reform Policies and Their Impact
2.4       Traditionally, China's industrial development was guided by an
inward-oriented and import-substitution strategy. This approach led to
rapid growth in industrial output and employment, the acquisition of
industrial skills and the development of a wide range of basic,
intermediate and consumer goods industries. On the other hand, it also
resulted in numerous problems, includirg inefficiencies in production, lack
of technological development, poor product quality and inadequate knowledge
of markets abroad. Evidence of these deficiencies is that manufacturing
output per worker in China in 1985 was a low $3,350, about one-fourth the
average productivity in newly industrialized countries (NICs) and much
below the productivity in more industrialized countries. This low
productivity can be explained in part by overmanning and outdated
technologies and in part by a lack of incentives and plant level
inefficiency. Nearly 80Z of the current stock of capital equipment is
worn-out or obsolete, and most needs replacement.



2.5       Although the level of investment has been very high in China, the
efficiency of resource use is low. Chinese enterprises are characterized
by excessive utilization of raw materials and high consumption of energy
per unit of output and by a slow response to changing price and quality
signals in the product and factor markets.  Mandatory planning,
institutional rigidities and an environment of distorted and controlled
prices have provided little incentive for efficient management at the
factory level. Over-emphasis on self-sufficiency at the regional level has
also resulted in fragmented markets and reduced domestic competition. As a
result, potential gains from economies of scale, specialization and
division of labor have often been missed. A lack of labor and capital
mobility has led to subontimal use of scarce skills, talent and resources.
2.6       Distortions in the trade regime have contributed to the relative
isolation of Chinese industry from the rest of the world. Enterprises
generally have had to go through foreign trade corporations (FTCs), which
have virtual monopolies in their subsectors, for imports and exports.
Enterprises do not normally participate in trade negotiations, nor do they
receive information on sale prices. As a result, enterprises have often
been unaware of the latest developments in foreign markets, including
changes in patterns of demand, new products, emerging competition and price
movements. A related constraint is that the access of enterprises to
foreign exchange has generally been tied to their ability to export. It
has been extremely difficult for non-exporting enterprises to service
their foreign exchange loans and to import raw materials and spare parts
(para. 3.18).
2.7       Industrial development has also been held back by inadequate
physical infrastructure (transport?tion, telecommunications and energy),
in which investment has lagged. In add.tion, institutional infrastructure-
-research and development organiz,ations and vocational training schools-
-has been lacking modern technology and know-how for the most part and
often has weak links to its industrial clients.
Post-reform Era
2.8.      Since 1979, GOC has attempted systematically to tackle these
fundamental weaknesses. The development strategy for the industrial sector
has emphasized modernization of equipment, development of more efficient
light industry, promotion of manufactured exports, and conservation of
materials and energy. There have been two main thrusts to the reforms
adopted in 1984, which were designed to give greater impetus to this
effort. The first is a series of measures designed to reduce the role of
mandatory planning, correct the major price distortions and enhance the
role of markets in setting prices and determining industrial output. A
growing number of industrial products can now be sold 'in the market,"
though planned allocation of inputs and outpu,. coupled with a regulated,
albeit morc flexible, price system still apply to the bulk of industrial
output. This situation has led to a three-cier pricing regime under which
the prices for small number of key commodities are still centrally fixed,
the bulk of indus.rial goods are subject to a broad band of negotiated but
still regulated prices (which can be adjusted up to about 15Z in either
direction of the fixed prices), and the prices for non-essential foodstuffs



- 5 -
and some light consumer goods are largely market determined. Price reform
remains a critical item on GOC's reform agenda. However, recent worries
relating to the inflatior.ary implications of these reforms have resulted in
a cautious approach, and the prccess has slowea temporarily.
2.9       The second thrust is another set of reforms aimed at changing the
incentive structure and expanding managerial autonomy at the enterprise
level. These enterprise reforms include initiatives to: (a) devolve the
control over decisions relating to investments, payment of bonuses to
workers and expenditures on social services for employees through higher
profit retention; and (b) change the structure of production and
contraLtual linkages among enterprises, clarify the relationiship and
responsibilities of management and their supervisory governmental
agencies, and make managers more responsive to changing price, market and
profit considerations by allowing them to change the level and mix of
production, through the contract responsibility system.
2.10      In trade, the main changes have involved the partial break-up of
the export and import monopolies. This break-up has been done mainly
through limited decentralization of the export trade and the granting of
direct trading rights to some 100 large production enterprises all over
China. Progress has also been made in increasing the availability of
foreign exc:iange to non-exporting enterprises (para. 3.18).
2.11      The reforns are being implemented in China at a different pace
across regions and subsectors. Nevertheless, their impact on the light
industry sector has, as indicated by its recent performance (para. 2.3),
been particularly significant. Most enterprises (85Z-90Z of all medium-
and large-sized state enterprises) now operate under the contract
responsibility system, and managers have greater autonon,y over investment
decisions and are increasingly subject to compptitive pressures. Some
progress has also been made in breaking down the current rigidities of the
labor market. However, the central and provincial authorities recognize
that the reforms require continued deepening. Priorities for action
include: clarification of enterprise ownership issues, a step that will,
inter alia, help to promote mergers of the suboptimal plants that
characterize China's fragmented industrial structure; continued,
progressive relinquishing by government authorities of their preoccupation
with control of subservient enterprises and adoption of a supporting and
enabling role; and promotion of national market integration and an end to
the imposition of additional barriers to inter-provincial trade.
C. Bank Group Support for Industry
2.±2      The Bank Group's industrip! lending operations in China began in
December 1982 with the approval of the First China Investment Bank project.
Subsequently, the Bank has approved three more loan and credit operations
for CIB with total lending amounting to $645.6 million (see Chapter IV for
more details).  *While CIB's manpower and operational systems require
additional strengthening, Bank Group support has helped form CIB as a sound
development bank, particularly at the branch level. Besides the four CIB
operations, Bank Group involvement has entailed: (a) three loans,
totalling $257.3 million (Loan 2541-CHA, May 1985, Loan 2838-CHA, June 1986



and Loan 2958-CHA, June 1988) for a Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy
Saving Project, a Fertilizer Rationalization Project and a Phosphate
Development Project; (b) a loan of $100 million (Loan 2784-CHA, April 1987)
for the Shanghai Machine Tool Project, involving rehabilitation and
modernization of the machine tool sector in Shanghai; (c) a regional
development project for Gansu Province (Loan 2812-CiIA and Credit 1793-CHA
April 1987) which includes an industrial development component of $20
million, to be used to diversify and modernize the pLedominantly rural
industrial base in the province; (d) a loan of $127.0 million (Loan
2943-CHA, May 1988) for a China Pharmaceutical Project; and (e) a loan of
$154 million for the Tianj.in I.ight Industry Project (Loan 3022-CHA,
February 1989). Physical implementation of the first two fertilizer
projects is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement on the projects in
Shanghai and Gansu has been initiated. Ir. June 1987, the Board approved a
Planning Support and Special Studies Project, which, inter alia, includes
components for supporting long-term planning and strategic studies in
selected industrial subsectors. The Project Conmpletion Report (PCR) on CIB
I is now in an advanced stage of preparation.
2.13       IFC support for the Chinese industrial sector has hitherto been
limited. Its total assistanLe, since the first operation in 1985, amounts
to $38 million equivalent (of which $2 million equivalent is in the form of
equity), covering the following projects: Guangzhou and Peugeot
(Investment No. 813), China Investment Company (Investment No. 974),
Shenzen China Bicycles Co., Ltd. (Investment No. 1020), and Crown
Electronics (Investment No. 1066). One problem has been that most
potential joint venture partners are interested in import-substitution
projects that cater to the needs of the domestic market of China, whereas
enterprises, with some minor exceptions, are required to earn foreign
exchange through exports to service foreign obligations and to procure
imported inputs (para. 3.18). Consequently, IFC has found it difficult to
support import-substituting joint venture projects. As part of the ongoing
economic and sector dialogue, both the Bank and IFC have proposed maijr
changes in the foreign exchange allocation and management system designed
to rectify these difficulties. The growing importance and role of the
foreign exchange adjustment centers (para. 3.19) that were established
recently in important trading cities and provinces have the potential for
alleviating this constraint.
2.14       The Bank's overall objectives in the industrial sector are to
assist GOC to: (a) improve the policy framework fcr the sector as a whole;
(b) build sound institutions and practices for financial intermediation,
subsector planning and project approval and implementation; (c) design and
implement enterprise reforms; (d) promote and implement technology
upgrading, plant and enterprise restructuring and rehabilitation, and
conservation of energy and materials conservation in selected subsectors at
the national and provincial levels; and (e) carry out the needed reforms in
the financial sector.
2.15       The present and emerging operational pipeline and the program of
economic and sector work of the Bank reflect the above strategic thrust.
Specific plans include further support for both CIB and other financial
intermediaries in the context of the overall industrial and financial
sector reform now underway, assistance to selected major subsectors at the



7-
national and provincial levels (e.g., fertilizers, pharmaceuticals and
machine tools), and the development of broad-based industrial lending
operations at the provincial level, to involve restructuring of major
subsec..ors in the context of a coherent provincial strategic framework.
The increasing devolution of responsibility for planning and implementation
from the center to the provincial authorities can have a a significant
impact on the industrial sector, providing the provincial authorities
effectively enunciate and carry out their new role. The anticipated series
of provincial operations is designed to help selected provinces articulate
and implement their new responsibilities. Operations to assist the rapidly
growing rural industrial sector are also planned. Initially the support
will be provided through the SPARK program that is giving technical and
financial support to selected rural enterprises outside the state sector.
2.16      The Bank's significant program of economic and sector work in the
area of industry and finance has and is providing the basis for an active
policy dialogue with GOC on many of the issues described in paras. 2.4-2.7
above. The main studies completed so far relate to the state enterprise
management system, finance and investment, and external trade and capital.
Further work is planned in such areas as enterprise and finanrial reform
(para. 3.20) as well as several subsector studies at the national and
provincial levels. This work is increasingly being carried out jointly
with Chinese agencies.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A   Institutional Framework
3.1       For about three decades (1950-78), China's banks operated as
fiscal agents implementing GOC's cash and credit plans in support of the
physical output plan. During this period, banks performed mainly a
cashier's role. The People's Bank of China (PBC) dominated the financial
system; for example, it handled domestic industrial credit and most
agricultural credit. Two other banks provided specialized services: the
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) channeled budgetary funds to
state enterprises and construction projects, and the Bank of China (BOC)
handled foreign exchange and financed international trade. A large network
of some 59,000 rural credit cooperatives (RCCs), one in each township,
provided a narrow range of financial services, mainly deposit-taking and
provision of seasonal credit. A nonbank financial system was almost
nonexistet,t, as was any significant informal financial intermediation. The
flow of funds was largely vertical, as horizontal transfers between banks
and/or enterprises were not permissible under the prevailing centralized
economy.
3.2       Restructuring of China's financial system began in 1979 with the
restoration of PBC as the country's central bank and the re-establishment
of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) as a specialized bank to take over
PBC's rural banking functions. In 1984, the government established another
specialized bank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), to
which it transferred PBC's urban banking activities. Existing specialized



- 8 -
banks, PCBC and BOC, were given an expanded mandate and greater autonomy in
their operations. In early 1987. the financial system was further expanded
with the establishment of two universal banks, the Bank of Communications
(BOCOM), owned join,ly by the national and provincial governments (compared
to the specialized banks, which are owned by the national government), and
the CITIC Industrial Bank, a subsidiary of the China International Trust
and Investment Corporation (CITIC). The specialized banks have carried out
a major expansion of their branches, while some banks have gone so far as
to offer door-to-door services. RCCs continue to be the main banking
institutions in the countryside. In recent years, some 1,500 urban credit
cooperatives (UCCs) have been established in major cities by enterprises
and households; they operate under the leadership of ICBC.
3.3        Investment banking is aLso becoming an impcrtant subsector of
China's financial system. CITIC was established in 1979 both as a
consulting firm and a merchant bank for handling foreign investments in
China. Some 15 regional trust and investment corporations and 600 smaller
ones, carrying out similar consultancy and investment banking functions,
are now operating. Many serve small- and medium-sized cities and rural
areas. In 1981, GOC, as noted, established CIB to support development of
the industrial sector. A recent addition is the China Agribusiness Trust
and Investment Corporation (CATIC), established in collaboration with
specialized banks, local trust and investment corporations, and
nongovernmental financial institutions.
B.  Main Sectoral Issues and Reforms
Central Banking Tools and Macroeconomic Management
3.4        Before the reforms,  PBC acted as banker to the government and
the state enterprise sector; it was also the source of all operating credit
and handled savings deposits for hc seholds. Direct planning controls and
administrative regulation were its tools for economic management. Since
the reforms, PBC has, as it has moved toward operating exclusively as a
central bank, undergone significant changes in its role and instruments for
macroeconomic control. In 1984, GOC formally established PBC as China's
central bank, with a full range of responsibilities. Over the same period,
the tools available to PBC for monetary control (previously limited to
direct lending to enterprises and administration of credit ceilings for
specialized banks) have grown to include direct lending to the banking
system, changes in reserve ratios (recently raised from 122 to 132) and,
increasingly, discounting operations.
3.5       In spite of these developments, PBC's control over the financial
system is still limited, particularly on the money supply and overall
creation of credit. In 1988, GOC took ar. important step toward fostering
greater coordination o' monetary and fiscal policies by permitting PBC to
limit the degree to which the Ministry of Finance (MOF) may finance
expenditures via overdrafts to PBC. Such measures need to be continued.
The role of PBC in conducting monetary policy also needs strengthening. To
do so, PBC has to increase its reliance on indirect measures of monetary
control.  Governmental authorit,is, particularly at the provincial level,
have to support the central bank in carrying out its mandate. An effective



- 9 -
system of banking supervision and regulation to protect solvency and ensure
the safety and soundness of the emerging financial system is required as
well. This need will become acute as competition among banks emerges, as
the price reform deepens and as increasingly independent enterprises face
the realities of the market. Minimum levels of capital, portfolio
guidelines and other measures, including proper accounting and auditing
procedures and standards, need to be introduced and regulations properly
codified. Further, for PBC to enforce these regulations effectively and to
monitor the status of banks regularly requires that it develop a better
trained and much larger corps of bank examiners.
Transformation of the Banking System and Sectoral Monopolies in BankinR
:5.6      Prior to 1979, the Chinese banking system res mbled a monobank
system, in which one state bank handled most financial transactions; there
was a virtual absence of other financial institutions or markets and
therefore no competition. Significant decentralization of China's barking
system has since taken place with the establishment of the specialized
banks, the newly created universal banks, the large number of recently
licensed locally-owned banks (paras. 3.2 and 3.3), and the increased role
now played by the foreign banking community.
3.7       Since 1979, the role of the banking system has also changed:  it
is now important as a source of enterprise financing (banks financed some
37.5Z of state fixed investment in 1985 as compared to 5Z in 1979), and,
while still extending mostly short-term credit, banks are increasingly
providing medium-term loans. Loans to the collective and private sector
have more than doubled between 1979 and 1985 as a percentage of total
specialized bank credit. Significant overlap of services has emerged.
ICBC and ABC, for example, offer saviings accounts to urban households,
albeit at identical, regulated interest rates. The urban and rural credit
cooperatives are beginning to compete with the specialized banks, and ICBC
is permitted to deal in foreign exchange, albeit in a limited way. BOCOM
has been licensed to undertake a range of banking and investment activities
across sectors in both local currency and foreign exchange. In keeping
with the new emphasis on competitiun and horizontal flows of finance, the
authorities have allowed, on an experimental basis, the development of an
interbank market in short-term funds both among different banks in the same
region and a-ross provincial boundaries. In 1987, some Y 200 billion were
traded in the interb&nk market. However, the share of interprovincial
transfers remains low.
3.8       Despite the reforms and decentralization of China's banking
system, competition has been slow to develop in the banking sector. To a
large extent, the operations of each specialized bank are limited to a
particular sector (e.g., industry or agriculture) or to providing a
particular class of service (working capital or investment loans, foreign
exchange services, etc.). GOC is, however, committed to increasing the
competitiveness of this sector by permitting each of the specialized banks
greater freedom to offer a wider range *f services and, thus, to promote
efficiert financial intermediation. In this regard, additional measures
could include, inter alia: permitting specialized banks to engage more
extensively in overlapping activities; allowing existing investment and



- 10 -
trust companies to enter into banking operations; permitting the rural and
urban credit cooperatives to become full-fledged banking institutions; and
permitting all banks to operate in all regions along the same lines as the
newly established BOCOM.   However, given the current immuturity of the
fledgling system and the major reforms that are concurrently taking place
in the reai economy, GOC is wisely proceeding cautiously in this area. If
it goes too fast, the viab!'ity of many of the emerging financial
intemediaries could be  driously undermined.
Interest Rates
3.9       Interest rates in China were traditionally very low as they were
not considered an instrument for the miobilization or allocation of
resources. Moreover, there was a multiplicity of interest rates: capital
construction loans and foreign currency loans had different interest rates
depending on their purpose, location, social priority, etc. Deposits by
enterprises carried lower interest rates as compared to individual deposits
and thus, reduced the incentives for enterprises to save or refrain from
making low-return investments. More recently, the high level of inflation
(18.5Z in 1988) made most local currency interest rates negative in real
terms.
3.10      With the reforms, interest rates are becoming an increasingly
important instrument for macromanagement and allocation of resources. The
interest rates on PBC's own credit have been raised progressively; the
rates on some types of deposits more than doubled between July 1985 and
February 1989; and the rates on working capital loans for enterprises rose
by about 60Z over the same period. The latest increases in interest rates,
which became effective on February 1, 1989 (Annex 1), reduced to some
degree the multiplicity among rates, including by removing the major
anomaly of differential rates for deposits by enterprises. To encourage
long-term savings in the inflationary environment indexing of long-term
deposits has been introduced. In another important step, state sector
investments are now largely funded on a loan basis rather than a budgetary
grant basis. GOC has also permitted banks to charge up to 301 higher
interest rates than the PBC-set basic rates for working capital loans and
modernization loans. In Guangdong Province, other (nonbank) financial
institutions may set rates according to supply and demand, although PBC
sets a ceiling. In Hainan Province, both specialized banks and other
(nonbank) financial institutions such as trust and investment corporations
have complete freedom to set interest rates.
3.11      The recent steps to raise interest rates and the greater
flexibility for rates on bank loans are significant developments. However,
the low interest rates in some priority sectors of the economy continue to
exacerbate the "investment hunger" of Chinese enterprises. Further, many
real interest rates remain negative as a consequence of the recent increase
in inflation. GOC has adopted a two-pronged approach to address this
issue--it is adjusting interest rates upward (it increased the rates in
September 1988 and again in February 1989), and it is applying greater
controls to the money supply and credit expansion to check inflation. As
regards the proposed Bank loan, onlending rates on foreign currency loans
will be positive in real terms, as subborrowers will carry the foreign



- 11 -
exchange risk. Local currency loans to be made by CIB from its own sources
are also expected to be positive over the life of the loans (para. 5.3).
New Financial Intermediaries, Instruments and Markets
3.12      The economic reforms have resulted in an increase in the number
and variety of nonbank financial intermediaries and financial instruments
in the market, although they still account for a small fraction of total
financial intermediation. The new institutions include trust, leasing,
finance and investment companies, joint ventures, mutual aid cooperatives
and insurance companies. These institutions can provide financial services
of longer maturity and take greater risks than can a deposit-taking
commercial bank. This diversification is positive, enhancing the financial
sector's ability to mobilize savings and direct them to high value
investments.
3.13      Bonds, stocks, certificates of deposit and commercial bills now
contribute to the growing variety of financial instruments available to
borrowers and savers in China, although restrictions on secondary trading,
the rudimentary nature of the financial markets and the emergence of rapid
inflation have impeded their development. PBC felt these restrictions were
warranted in the past in view of the lack of experience of both issuers and
savers with the new instruments, ongoing distortions of prices and other
factars influencing the use of funds. Since early 1988, however, PBC has
allowed treasury bills issued from 1982 onwards to be sold in the secondary
market. At the same time, the secondary markets for treasury bills and
bank bonds are only now emerging in so-,e cities on a pilot basis and
transactions remain very limited. In the area of fixed income markets, in
1988, GOC authorized, on an experimental basis, the issuance of cormnercial
paper in Shanghai and has allowed enterprises there to issue short-term,
tradable bonds for their working capital needs. Also in Shanghai, banks
are permitted to 'accept' trade bills, which are traded in the secondary
market, as bankers' acceptances.
3.14      GOC has undertaken experiments with "stock markets,' which now
exist in some 53 Chinese cities, compared with only 7 in 1987. However,
the markets remain fragmented, and transactions are limited by a lack of
clarity with respect to the definition of ownership (para. 2.11). There is
a need to develop the securities markets and to introduce a proper
legislative and regulatory framework. In addition, a body like the
Securities and Exchange Commission has to be established to enunciate
procedures and watch over the securities markets and trading corporations.
Furthermore, GOC needs to establish rating corporations for all types of
securities. Such corporations would evaluate the creditworthiness of the
issuer, any credit enhancements such as guarantees, and the safety inherent
in the structure/design of the security itself.
Banking Profits and Taxation
3.15      While Chinese banks appear to have more autonomy than in the
past, they are still not responsible for their profits and losses. Unlike
other (nonfinancial) enterprises that were integrated into the
responsibility system in 1984 and whose profits are subject to taxation,



- 12 -
the profits of all banks (except ABC and CIB) are wholly remitted to the
government budget, while their wages and operating expenses are provided
for from the budget. Banks thus have little freedom to improve facilities,
staff or services in response to growing demand.
3.16      In 1988, GOC initiated a major experiment in this area with ABC.
It has been fully integrated into the enterprise tax system, which applies
a fixed tax on profits. 1/ It is expected that all banks will eventually
be given full autonomy and made responsible for their profits and losses.
This essential step will increasingly allow the banks to assert their
independence vis-a-vis their 'parent" or provincial central government
authorities. However, it is important that this movement be accompanied by
changes in the regulatory system that, inter alia, require banks to
increase their provision for bad debt and related reserves.
Debt Management and Foreign ExLhange Allocation and Retention
3.17     China has taken important steps since 1979 under its "open door"
policy to liberalize access to foreign exchange to modernize the economy.
The open door policy represents one of the most wide-ranging elements of
the reform and is a major departure from the preceding decades of self-
reliance and autarchic development. Since 1979, foreign direct investment
as well as borrowing have supported technology transfer, modernization of
equipment and import of capital goods, machinery and materials in short
supply. These imports have contributed significantly to higher efficiency
and growth in the Chinese economy. The liberalization of foreign currency
borrowing, however, highlighted the need for PBC to strengthen its capacity
to monitor the overall debt burden of China. In addition, there appears to
be a need to limit access of additional financial institutions to the
foreign markets so as to avoid small, fragmented borrowing chat may be
uneconomic in size and relatively higher in cost.
3.18      With respect to the bo-rowing of foreign exchange by Chinese
enterprises, the two important issues are loan repayment in foreign
exchange and the foreign exchange retention system (para. 2.6). Project
entities must repay their borrowing in foreign currency from either their
own export earnings or those of a parent or related organization having
foreign exchange. This requirement poses a heavy burden on enterprises
that do not generate foreign exchange directly through exports. Even if
they have high economic and financial rates of return, projects sponsored
by such enterprises have substantial difficulty obtaining financing. The
compartmentalization of China's foreign exchange allocation system is
further exacerbated by the foreign exchange retention system. To promote
exports, local governments and to a lesser extent enterprises are permitted
to retain a portion of their foreign exchange export earnings. However,
the foreign exchange available to those units could not, until recently, be
freely traded.
3.19      Since November 1986, GOC has allowed selective trading of foreign
exchange in certain areas through the newly established Foreign Exchange
1/ CIB was already established as a state-owned enterprise with sole
responsibility for its profits and losses.



- 13 -
Adjustment Centers (FXACs) under the supervision of PBC. While joint
venture enterprises have been authorized to trade foreign exchange among
themselves in these FXACs, Chinese enterprises have been permitted to
exchange quotas at prices agreed to between the parties, but subject to a
ceiling set by PBC/SAEC. In Hainan Province, the exchange rate is
completely determined by market forces and is not subject to a ceiling.
Both the volume and scope of transactions in the FXACs have expanded
rapidly, and GOC views this step as a prelude to the unification of
exchange rates. In the meantime, it is hoped that more transactions will
be shifted to the FXACs, with the ultimate objective of totally
liberalizing the foreign exchange market.
C. Bank Strategy
3.20      The Bank's own efforts in the financial sector have been and will
continue to be designed to assist GOC in its overall reform program. The
Bank's finance and investment study (Report No. 6445-CHA, June 11, 1987)
provided an effective basis for a comprehensive dialogue on financial
issues. However, the rapid progress and increasing complexity of the
reform program require increased Bank efforts in the area if effective
support of the transformation of the financial sector is to be maintained.
To this end, a major financial sector mission is planned for mid-1989. The
work of this mission is expected to provide the basis for further advice to
GOC, particularly with respect to strengthening the instruments for
financial sector and macro-management and the urgent need to develop a
sound regulatory and supervisory infrastructure. Continued progress in
these areas will provide the overall framework for an expected increase in
Bank lending to the Chinese financial sector. In addition to CIB and ABC
operations, the Bank and GOC are currently preparing a Financial
Institution Development Loan that is expected to support and strengthen two
of the largest banks. The Bank is also helping develop a technical
assistance (TA) program (which may be supported under the above loan)
mainly to strengthen the supervision and regulation of the banking system.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Components
4.1       The basic purpose of the proposed project is to assist GOC in
promoting and implementing technology upgrading and modernization in
industry, to build sound institutions and procedures for investment
financing, and to improve financial intermediation practices. Consistent
with the Bank's overall financial sector strategy para. 3.20) the project
would also further strengthen CIB's role and capacity, so that it is more
responsive to the rapidly changing financial sector environment in China.
4.2       More specifically, the project objectives would be to:
(a) continue institutional strengthening of CIB in both its
traditional and new areas of activity and thus enable it to carry



- 14 -
out its operations efficiently and prepare itself effectively to
meet the changing needs of its clients and operate in the
emerging competitive environment;
(b) expand and diversify CIB's resource base; and
(c) provide funds for investment in the modernization and
restructuring of light industry and removing the sector's
operational bottlenecks.
4.3       So far CIB has received four loans/credits from the Bank in an
aggregate amount of $645.6 million equivalent. The last project (CIB IV),
approved by the Executive Directors in March 1987, includes $299.3 million
as a credit line for onlending to industrial enterprises and $700,000 as TA
to support CIB's staff training program. Implementation of this project is
satisfactory. Commitments and disbursements have amountcl to $297 million 2/
and $104 million, respectively, as of March 10, 1989.
4.4       The total cost of the CIB V project is tentatively estimated at
about $460 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of
$300 million which would be financed under the proposed Bank loan to be
made to the People's Republic of China. Approval by the State Council of
the Loan Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The
proposed Bank loan would have the following components:
(a) Industrial Credit ($299 million) for the financing of small- and
medium-sized restructuring projects in light industry. This
component would have the following subcomponents:
(i) onlending for the import of modern equipment and technology
($244 million);
(ii) working capital financing ($50 million); and
(iii) equity investments, including equipment leasing ($5
million).
(b) Technical assistance - ($1.0 million) to support the
implementation of a training program for CIB's staff in existing
and new financial products and services (para. 4.19), and import
of computer hardware and software for CIB's proposed electronic
data processing system and related training (para. 4.27).
4.5       All subprojects under category (a) (i) and (iii) would use the
loan proceeds to finance the cost of fixed assets and interest during
construction on subloans, where applicable, and would meet the following
eligibility criteria:
(a) the subprojects would be in manufacturing subsectors of light
industry;
2/ The loan/credit amount had been fully committed but due to cancellation
and/or reduction in some subloans, net commitments are now
$297.0 million.



- 15 -
(b) the beneficiary enterprises would have a satisfactory projected
financial pOsition; and
(c) the subprojects would have a minimum FRR and ERR of 121.
Working capital loans (category (a) (ii) will meet criteria (a) and (b)
only. In the case of free-standing working capital loans (i.e., loans made
separately from the investment loans), enterprises would furnish CIB with
evidence (production plans, bill of exchange, proof of import require,elits,
agreements with buyers/trading companies, export plans, export orders,
foreign and/or domestic letters of credit, and/or other information that
may be necessary) to establish that the enterprise's production will
generate value added for export or the domestic market. Satisfactory
assurances were obtained during negotiations on the above eligibility
criteria.
B. CIB's Institutional Aspects
Establishment
4.6       GOC, with advice and assistance from the Bank, established CIB
primarily to provide term financing for small- and medium-sized
modernization projects of industrial enterprises. While CIB is
administratively under the leadership and supervision of MOF, so far it has
remained closely tied with PCBC, particularly at the provincial branch
level, with respect to the assignment of key personnel, administrative
services, joint financing and access to planning authorities and technical
bureaus. CIB has authorized capital of Y 4,000 million ($1,078 million) of
which Y 409 million ($110 million) or 20.22 have been paid in. In
addition, CIB nas an operating fund of Y 750 million ($202 million)
contributed by GOC, that is treated at par with its paid-in capital. At
the end of 1988, CIB's net worth was Y 1,384 million ($372 million). To
date, the Bank/IDA have as noted made four credit lines totalling
$645.6 million equivalent (Ln-2226/Cr-1313-CHA for $70.6 million in FY82,
Ln-2434/Cr-1491-CHA for $175 million in FY84, Ln-2659/Cr-1663-CHA for $100
million in FY86 and Ln-2783/Cr-1763-CHA for $300 million in FY87). In
addition, CIB is the financial intermediary for the Bank loan (Ln. 3022-CHA
for $154 million) for the Tianjin Light Industry Project. CIB has also
obtained foreign currency loans from ADB (in 1987) and other foreign banks,
and local currency loans from the government and PCBC (para. 4.28).
CIB's Future Role and Strategy
4.7       Hitherto, CIB has mainly provided foreign currency loans together
with some local currency financing, for capital investment in light
industry projects. It has relied largely on the Bank/IDA for foreign
currency funds and on GOC for local currency funds. Based on the
experience of development finance companies (DFCs) in other countries, CIB
has recognized that to ensure its long-term viability it has to supplement
its main investment lending activity with other related financial products
and income-generating services and to diversify its financial resources.
In the past, investment hunger and the segmentation of the financial
markets in China have served to protect CIB from any significant



- 16 -
competition. However, as the financial sector Ls progressively liberalized
(paras. 3.1-3.16), larger financial institutions that can offer a more
extensive range of financial services could develop a competitive edge over
CIB. While CIB haLs many options in expanding and diversifying its
operations, it has rightly decided, considering its institutional
adolescence, to be selective in new endeavors. The initiatives to be
undertaken in the near future are elaborated on in CIB's new development
strategy statement (Annex 2) and policy statement (Annex 3), prepared in
consultation with Bank staff. These statements are considered realistic
and appropriate, and their final ratification by CIB's Board of Directors
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. According to the strategy
statement, CIB aims to: (a) diversify its portfolio by industrial
subsector and type of client by seeking out an increasing share of nonstate
sector enterprise.;3/ (b) minimize its reliance on a single source of funds
(currently the Bank) through progressive borrowing from other sources and,
when feasible, from bond or debenture issues in foreign capital markets;
(c) expand and develop new product lines and services, such as free-
standing working capital loans, equity investments, leasing operations,
guarantees, loan management, and loan syndications; (d) mobilize more
deposits from client enterprises and issue its own certificates of deposit
and/or commercial paper (a process that will also promote development of
the Chinese money market); and (e) expand its management information system
and implement a computerization program.
4.8       As in the past, CIB will continue to upgrade its project lending
standards and procedures. Its overall operational policies, as enunciated
in the policy statement, remain valid and prudent. These policies cover
its maximum subloan size and exposure to enterprises, debt/equity ratios,
and loan repayment and interest rate policies. CIB would continue to
protect itself from the foreign exchange risk by passing it on to the final
borrowers/beneficiaries or by taking other appropriate measures. CIB is
fully aware of the need to make increasing provision for doubtful debts,
particularly as the reform deepens and its clients face growing market
pressures. It will increase its accumulated provisions to and then
maintain at a minimum of 22 of its outstanding portfolio, a level that is
considered satisfactory (para. 4.47).
Organization
4.9       CIB's head office performs an administrative and supervisory role
for its entire operation. A major reorganization in 1987 resulted in eight
departments in the head office: two for project lending, and one each for
inspection and research, credit management, personnel and training, finance
and accounting, coordination and planning, and general administration. The
present organizational structure of the head office is satisfactory, but as
its new activities grow (para. 4.7), CIB will have to establish new
departments for short-term/revolving working capital loans and
international settlements.
3/ They would include collectives, township and village enterprises
(TVEs), and joint ventures with foreign partners.



- 17 -
4.10      CIB's branches, which have direct responsibility for screening,
appraisal and supervision of projects, expanded from 3 in 1982 to 19 in
1986 and 31 in 1988. Some branches have established sub-branches in the
more active areas in a province. Each branch carries out its business
according to the policies and guidelines set by the head office. The
organiz&tional structure of the branches follows broadly the same pattern
as that of the head office. Appraisal reports on subloans above the 'free
l.imit" of each branch are submitted to the head office for review and
approval. Head office staff and advisers also assist the branches in
appraisal as necessary. After approval, the branches handle project
implementation and supervision following established guidelines, which
include periodic reports to the head office (para. 4.25).
4.11      CIB's development strategy provides for greater autonomy for its
branches in investment decision-making. Accordingly, in the beginning
of 1989, the branches at Shanghai, Tianjin, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Hebei
were given a free limit of $2 million for investment loans by the head
office, while the branches at Hubei, Fujian, Liaoning, Anhui, Shandong,
Heilongjiang, Beijing, Hunan, Jilin, Guangdong, Shenyang, Dalian, Qingdao
and Guangzhou were given a free limit of $1 million. CIB has not given a
free limit authority to the branches at Guangxi, Inner Mongolia, Sichuan,
Shaanxi, Henan, Shanxi, Harbin, Chongqing, Shenzhen, Wuhan, Hainan and
Xiamen. The CIB head office plans to review the appraisal capability and
quality of operations at all branches at the beginning of each year and
will adjust the free limit of individual branches accordingly. The above
limits will not apply to provincial government loans managed by the
branches. As regards working capital loans, the branches are free to make
local currency loans out of their own resources, but in the case of fortign
currency, branches can only make loans within the limit on their individual
credit lines, as approved by the head office.
4.12      The branch network of CIB expanded significantly in the last
year. Some new branches were established exclusively for the provincial
capitals (including those at Wuhan, Harbin, Gua gzhou and Liaoning), that
were declared "independently planned cities" directly under the central
government.  These cities already had CIB branches, which henceforth will
cater to the needs of the rest of the province. However, some of these new
offices may not have an economic level of operational activity in the near
future.  Further the expansion has resulted in the dispersion of key
experienced staff and may create coordination problems for headquarters.
CIB needs to slow down the establishment of new branches and to focus on
strengthening existing ones.  The appraisal mission discussed this matter
with CIB and was informed that it planned no new branches for the next
three years (1989-91).  Any subsequent decisions to establish new branches
will be guided by CIB's new strategy which emphasizes prior development of
staff capability, a reasonabie number of projects and staff, and economic
level of activity at the new branch. During negotiations, CIB confirmed
its above policy and strategy for establishing new branches.
Board, Management and Staff
4.13      CIB's 33-member board of directors has been structurally the same
since 1983. It is chaired by the president of PCBC, with representatives



- 18 -
of relevant government departments and banks who are appointed by the State
Council. The board meets once a year to review and decide on major
policies, the annual plan, financial and operational performance, and
foreign borrowing. A managing committee of the chairman, three deputy
chairmen and eight managing directors meets from time to time to deal with
all other matters, including loan approvals of $8.0 million and above and
the appointment of senior officials. The president and other management
approve loans below $8.0 million. The Board approves CIB borrowing of $50
million and above, while the managing committee handles that below $50
million.
4.14      Since August 1986, CIB has had a full-time presidernt as the chief
executive officer. He is assisted by two vice-presidents who are
responsible for supervising specific departments (Figure 1). Until the end
of 1986, each branch (except for two) was headed by a president, who was
concurrently a vice-president of PCBC, although the branch's vice-
presidents handled day-to-day operations. To achieve administrative
independence for its branches and ensure undivided attention by top
management, during CIB IV negotiations, CIB agreed to appoint full-time
presidents for all branches (then 19 in number) on the expiration of their
existing terms. As of December 31, 1988, CIB had appointed full-time
presidents in 20 of the 31 branches and the remaining branches are expected
to have full-time presidents by the end of 1989.
4.15      CIB now has eight departments at the head office, but the heads
of three departments have not been named and they are being managed by
deputies. The deputies are expected to be promoted to the department head
positions after they have gained more experience and top management is
fully satisfied with their performance. This arrangement is considered
satisfactory in view of the nonavailability of suitable staff for vacant
positions from outside.
4.16      The total number of CIB staff at the head office increased from
66 in mid-1986 to 155 by the end of 1988. Similarly, the staff in its
branches increased from 401 to 1,183. The staff includes 173 engineers and
455 economists/financial analysts who are directly involved in project
appraisal and supervision. Most of CIB's middle management and
professional staff have received some Lraining in project lending and have
attained adequate proficiency under the four credit lines from the Bank. A
few staff have received long-term training and scholarships for study at
universities abtoad. However, more on-the-job and formal training is still
required, particularly for middle management and staff, as CIB's operations
expand and diversify. Besides training in project evaluation and
supervision, other areas that need special attention include working
capital lending, international settlements, equity investments,
syndications and fund/cash management (para. 4.19).
4.17      CIB has prepared a four-year rolling plan for its staffing
requirements. In ±989, it plans to increase its total head offi^~e staff by
55, about 35Z above the level in 1988; further increases in 1990-92 are
estimated at 15Z p.a. Total CIB staff including those at the branches
would rise from 1,338 in 1988 to about 2,800 in 1992, including 1,800
economists/financial analysts and 460 engineers/technicians. These



estimates, which imply a modest increase in staff productivity in terms of
lending volume and operations, take into account CIB's expanding and more
diversified operations on the one hand and staff savings resulting from the
introduction of the electronic data processing system on the other.
Training
4.18      .n the past, CIB's training consisted of in-house seminars,
short-term training abroad (for about 20 staff p.a.) and long-term traialing
abroad (about four staff p.a.). in-house training mainly involved project
appraisal, with about 390 staff trainod by the end of 1987; other courses
included lectures on international settlements and fund raising, computer
courses for over 300 staff, and Englisn language courses for about 30-60
staff p.a. at the Nanjing University. Training abroad has been financed
under the TA component of Bank Group loans/credits to CIB or has been
provided by foreign correspondent banks and ADB.
4.19      CIE has prepared a new five-year rolling program for training,
taking into account the recommendations of a Bank consultaxnt who joined the
pre-appraisal mission to review CIB's training needs (Annex 4). The
program is appropriate for CIB's management and staff development needs.
In contrast to previous programs, CIB's updated program emphasizes:
(a) training in the new areas of activity (para. 4.7) and (b) more
intensive training within China with the help of experienced foreign
experts. Future training will also have a greater focus on specific skill
needs and on-the-job training in both domestic and foreign institutions.
For example, CIB staff would work in the international settlements
departments of selected Hong Kong banks and/or BOC; staff engaged in
leasing operations would work with the leasing company in which CIB is a
shareholder; staff dealing with equity investments would work and be
trained in local trust companies, e.g., CITIC and Bank of China Trust and
Consultancy Corporation. Training would also be provided to staff in the
review and foll)w-up of the environmental aspects of subprojects. For the
first time, CIB's program will also cover staff training in the analysis of
industrial subsectors. This will greatly enhance the staff capability to
prepare subsector reports Asich are essential to support CIB's operational
planning and lending activities. To assist in the overall financial
planning of CIB, some of its staff will be assigned to foreign commercial
banks focussing on treasury/fund management and financial pianning.
4.20      The bulk of the training costs in foreign currency would be
covered under the TA component of CIB IV, but an additional $300,000,
required to cover the whole five-year program, have been included in the TA
component of the proposed CIB V project. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from CIB that it would implement a training program agreed
with the Bank. Details of the training program were also reconfirmed
during negotiations.
Project Appraisal
4.21      CIB undertakes project appraisal in accordance with the
Industrial Project Appraisai Manual that was prepared in 1983 with Bank
assistance and revised in 1985 and 1988 to reflect lessons learned. The



- 20 -
manual, which has been widely distributed to other banks and concerned
agencies in China, is comprehensive and includes detailed guidelines for
project evaluation for the purpose of investment loans, permanent working
capital loans and equity investments.
4.22      While CIB has achieved considerable and rapid progress, the
quality of its project appraisals is uneven. The main weaknesses are in
the following areas. First, some appraisal reports, particularly those
prepared by newer staff and branches, appear to apply the gujielines
mechanically and fail to identify and analyze important isrjes relating to
the subsectors, enterprises, and projects. Second, the i:sformation on the
overall market situation in China is sometimes inddequate, and market
forecasts are not supported by relevant data and reasonable assumptions.
Similar weaknesses have been observed in the analysis of export markets.
CIB needs to expand its market analyses to cover more adequately such
important aspects as pricing, competition, distribution arrangements, etc.
These weaknasses reflect not only the inexperience of new staff and the
rapid growth of the branches, but also the need for more quality control at
the head office.
4.23      As part of its continuing efforts to improve operations, CIB has
adopted measures to upgrade its appraisal standards and procedures. It
reorganized the head office by creating: (a) two separate departments for
project lending, specializing in specific industries; (b) a new department
for market research and subsector studies; and (c) a separate department
for personnel and training. The establishment of a department for market
research and subsector studies was advised by the Bank during the
preparation of CIB IV project, to assist CIB staff in focusing on and
developing an understanding of broader subsectoral issues and to improve
market evaluation of subprojects. Staff training in the preparation of
subsector studies and market research has been included in CIB's training
program (para. 4.19). As a condition of CIB IV, CIB is now including
analysis of the enterprise as a whole in all subproject appraisal reports.
It has also decided, on the advice of the Bank, to pay particular attention
to the actual experiences of projects financed, which would be fed back to
its branches for consideration in future appraisals and investment
decisions. CIB has also accepted Bank proposals for further elaboration of
environmental aspects in its Project Appraisal Manual; these will be
included ir the final version that also incorporates revisions made in
1988. Futuze training courses and workshops will further upgrade
management and staff capability and reinforce these changes and
improvements. The Bank will continue to provide assistance to improve
CIB's appraisals through its subproject reviews and supervision missions to
CIB's head office and branches.
4.24      In view of the planned introduction/expansion of new activities,
CIB will issue formal operational guidelines to staff regarding equity
investments, working capital loans and leasing operations.  The g.idelines
would be finalized and introduced after incorporating Bank comments.
During neg_:tiations, assurances were received from CIB that it will apply
operational guidelines acceptable to the Bank for working capital loans,
equity investments and leasing operations and will issue these guidelines
before providing any such assistance under the proposed Bank loan.



- 21 -
Proiect Supervision
4.25      In 1983, CIB issued a comprehensive and satisfactory Project
Supervision Manual. It covers the full cycle from loan agreement to
project completion report. Supervision work has been delegated to the
branches, an appropriate step. Branch staff make frequent site visits to
assess the progress of project implementation and to review performance and
operating results after completion. The Credit Management Department at
the head office provides support to selected branches and subprojects and
is responsible for ensuring that the branches provide proper, timely
supervision.
4.26      To date, most of CIB's follow-up activities have concentrated on
fai_ly narrow project implementation issues and disbursements. Since many
projects have been completed, the Credit Management Departments in the
branches would also focus on implementing CIB's system and procedures to
monitor client operations and problems more broadly. This monitoring will
be achieved not only through regular supervision visits but also through
formal written progress reports that analyze the operational results and
problems and formulate corrective action plans and measures when necessary.
CIB's various reporting procedures, if implemented well, should enable
close monitoring of projects with major problems. These reports would also
be the basis for preparing CIB's long-form audit report each year, which is
important to its financial and operational planning as well as to
monitoring by its creditors. The Bank would monitor progress in these
activities through CIB's progress reports, to be verified in supervision
missions.
Management Information System (MIS)
4.27      Another area on which CIB will focus its attention is further
strengthening of its management information system. As provided in its
development strategy (Annex 2), CIB recently established a task force to
develop, implement and monitor a time-bound action program. The task force
will identify the type, frequency and recipients of additional information
and reports and responsible staff/departments/branches. Priority will be
given to the timely completion of reports for management, government and
creditors and its annual long-form audit. This program will be carried out
simultaneously with the implementation of CIB's proposed electronic data
processing system (EDPS). Based on a comprehensive study of its
requirements, CIB has estimated that its EDPS will cost $700,000 equivalent
in hardware and software, including relevant training. It has requested
financing under the TA component of CIB V. A management information
specialist (financed under ADB TA) as well as a banking system expert (Bank
consultant) have reviewed CIB's needs and plans for the EDPS. CIB will
implement the EDPS in accordance with a plan to be agreed to with the Bank,
taking into account the consultants' comments. During loan negotiations,
assurances to that effect were obtained, and understandings were reached
that CIB will furnish the Bank with the plan for review by May 31, 1989.
4.28      During the appraisal of CIB V, agreements were also reached on
revised requirements for CIB reporting to the Bank. This agreement as well
as the list of reports were confirmed during negotiations. Reports of the



- 22 -
consultants and a list of reports to be furnished by CIB to the Bank are
available in the Project File.
Procurement and Disbursements
4.29      In keeping with national policy, all procurements financed by CIB
must be undertaken by one of the central or provincial agencies entrusted
with responsibility for procurement. CIB's procedures, which have been
applied satisfactorily and efficiently, require a reasonable degree of
competition, involving a comparison of at least three quotations from
potential suppliers; most goods and equipment financed by CIB are procured
in this manner. In a few projects involving re'atively straightforward
expansion, the procurement of new equipment directly from the sAm supplier
has been justified on the basis of efficiency and compatibility. Under the
Bank's credit lines, CIB requires international competitive bidding (ICB)
for larger contracts "para. 5.8). CIB authorizes disbursements against
appropriate documentation and progress reports. Its procedures are
satisfactory.
C. CIB's Past and Planned Operations
Past Performance
4.30      Lending Operations.  Since commencement of operations in 1983,
CIB's lending volume has expanded rapidly (Annex 5). Over the 1983-88
period, annual loan approvals increased approximately seven times, from
Y 305 million in 1983 ($50 million in foreign exchange and Y 165 million
in local currency) to Y 2.1 billion in 1988 ($430 million and Y 514
million). CIB's lending has fluctuated from year to year, mainly because
of its he&vy reliance on Bank Group financing, which normally has been made
available in alternate years. As of December 31, 1988, CIB's total loan
portfolio amounted to Y 4.1 billion ($727 million in foreign exchange and
Y 1.4 billion in local currency).
4.31      CIB provides both foreign and local currency loans for subproject
financing. However, the share of approvals of local currency loans has
decreased from 54.3Z of total CIB loan approval amounts, in 1983 to 24.3Z
in 1988, mainly because of increasing self-financing by subborrowers and
cofinancing with other banks for local currency needs. As of December 31,
1988, local currency loans accounted for about 34Z of CIB's total loan
portfolio of Y 4.1 billion.
4.32      CIB has financed a wide range of small- and medium-sized projects
in the industrial sector (Annex 6). As of the end of 1988, the textile
industry (including cotton, woolen, synthetic and mixed textiles, ready-
made garments, embroidery and knitwear) was the largest beneficiary with a
share of 30.8Z in total amount of loan approval, followed by light industry
(23.7Z), 4/ consumer electronics (9.4Z), machine tools (8.51), chemicals
(7.2Z), services (4.9Z), metallurgical products (4.4%), building materials
(3.1Z) and pharmaceuticals (2.6Z). To minimize its credit risk, CIB's new
4/ Here light industry includes footwear, leather, and wood and pulp and
paper products.



- 23 -
development strategy (para 4.7) provides for further diversification of its
loan portfolio by industrial subsector. In this connection, it has agreed
to a maximum limit of 252 exposure (i.e., outstanding loan/investment
amount) in any subsector. It has also decided to increase its loan
approvals to nonstate enterprises (collectives) to at least 102 of total
loans in future years. These limits/targets were reconfirmed during
negotiations.
4.33      As regards the geographical distribution of loans, the Jiangsu
branch has been the most active, with an overall share of 13.4S of total
commitments, followed by Liaoning (7.42), Tianjin (6.9Z), Hebei (6.6Z),
Shanghai (6.5), Hubei (5.7Z) and Shandong (5.52) (Annex 6).
4.34      Resource Mobilization.  CIB's sources of funds are given in Table
4.1.
Table 4.1: CIB - SOURCES OF FUNDS
(Y million; $ million in parentheses)
1982-83    1984   1985    1986       1987    1988    Total b/  Z
Paid-in capital   400.0.a/    -        -      500.0    250.0   -         1,150.0   19.4
Internal
operations         5.1        5.7   17.7    62.7      94.3   159.7       345.2    5.8
World Bank Group  139.8       406.0      -    372.0  1,116.0      -      2,401.6   40.6
(70.6)   (175.0)    -   (100.0)  (300.0)    -         (645.6)
ADB                  -       -       -         -        372.0     -        372.0    6.3
(100.0)    -       (100.0)
Commercial
sources            -          -      -      206.4    163.7   409.2       779.3   13.2
(55.5)   (44.0) (110.0)   (209.5)
PCBC loans         104.0a/   280.0    -         -         -     200.0      620.0   10.5
Deposits             -          -      -        -        49.4   200.0      249.4    4.2
TOTAL           684.9      691.7   17.7 1,141.0  2,045.4   968.9   5,917.5  100.0
Source: CIB
a/ CIB was allowed to convert Y 448 million to $160 million from the country's
foreign exchange reserves.
b/ Local currency equivalent of total amounts in foreign exchange have been
converted at the present exchange rate.
Until 1985 CIB relied almost entirely on the World Bank Group for foreign
currency resources (except for a small portion drawn from China's foreign
exchange reserves). It began to diversify its funding in 1986 by borrowing
from foreign commercial sources in accordance with the agreements reached



- 24 -
with the Bank under CIB III and IV. In addition, in 1987 CIB started
borrowing from ADB. The amount of ADB's first loan was $100 million
equivalent, and repeater loans are expected in the future. The World Bank
Group's loans/credits were nearly 602 of CIB's total new foreign currency
resources (excluding loan recoveries used for onlending) during 1983-88.
4.35      Utilization of Earlier Loans/Credits from the World Bank Group.
As of December 31, 1988, total approvals under CIB I-IV amounted to $640.0
million for 498 subprojects, accounting for 992 of the total amount of
loans/credits provided to CIB by the World Bank Group (Annex 7). The
average size of the subloans was $1.3 million, and their maturities were
between 3 and 10 years, including grace periods of up to 3 years. Most
subproject entities were state enterprises, others being urban collectives.
The projected economic rates of return of subprojects ranged from 12Z-452,
the FRRs from 13Z-35Z. About 902 of the subprojects were expected to
generate foreign exchange directly, a direct consequence of GOC's policy
requiring borrowers to repay foreign currency loans in foreign exchange
(para. 3.18). One benefit of this practice was that subprojects tended to
employ imported technologies that in turn helped make their products
competitive in export markets. However, this policy has precluded
efficient import-substitution subprojects from receiving CIB's financial
support. CIB is now trying to overcome this bias by financing such
subprojects with foreign exchange repayment guarantees from provincial and
municipal authorities.
4.36      The overall commitment and disbursement performance of CIB I-IV
is satisfactory. CIB I was fully committed on schedule. However, because
of internal procedures in China, disbursements in the initial two years
were slow. After 1985, these procedures were streamlined and the
disbursements accelerated. At the request of CIB, the closing date of CIB
I was extended by one year to December 31, 1988. Disbursements under CIB
II and III are ahead of schedule. Disbursements under CIB IV were
initially behind schedule because loan effectiveness was somewhat delayed
but they are now catching up quickly as a result of expedited commitments.
Planned Operations
4.37      Term Lending Operations.  CIB's lendi,ig operations would continue
to focus on the development of light industry. Reflecting in part GOC's
current policy of restricting bank credit in an effort to curb the high
inflation, CIB's current operational plan (Annex 10) envisages a slight
decline (2Z overall and 82 in foreign currency) in term loans in 1989. In
1990 and thereafter, loan approvals would incriaz.  The plan appears
reasonable considering the current macroeconomic situation and future
investment needs of light industry in China. Overall, during the 1988-92
period CIB's annual term loan approvals would increase from Y 2.1 billion
($430 million in foreign currency and Y 514 million in local currency) to
Y 4.1 billion ($785 million in foreign currency and Y 1.2 billion in local
currency). Particular attention in CIB's lending and investment operations
would be g -.en to improving efficiency of enterprises through technology
transformation, energy savings and product upgrading. Investments in these
areas tend to be small while having high ERRs and quick payback periods.
The size of the subloans for the majority of projects would not exceed $3.0
million in foreign currency and Y 4.0 million in local currency.



- 25 -
4.38      CIB's project pipeline as of December 31, 1988 included 139
projects with estimated foreign exchange requirements of $314 million. As
the projects are added to the pipeline after careful review and screening,
most are expected to be suitable for CIB financing. In line with CIB's new
strategy for portfolio diversification (para. 4.7), subprojects in the
textile subssctor are only 18Z of the total pipeline. More subprojects
have been identified in other consumer good, chemical, engineering and
electronics subsectors. A majority of these subprojects are concentrated
in six industrially advanced provinces (Liaoning, Jiangsu, Shandong, Hubei,
Hunan and Sichuan).
4.39      Working Capital Loans.  In the past, CIB has provided only
permanent working capital loans together with investment loans. CIB now
plans to supplement these loans with free-standing working capital loans
that are not linked to term loan financing for subprojects. The aim is to
alleviate the liquidity problems of its clients and to maximize capacity
utilization and exports. CIB's total outstanding workirg capital loans are
estimated to increase from Y 186 million ($50 million) in 1989 to
Y 1,710.5 million ($406.3 million) in foreign cuirency and Y 199.5 million
in local currency in 1992.
4.40      Equity Investment.  CIB plans to make small equity investments
(including leasing operations), beginning with $2.5 million in foreign
exchange and Y 12 0 million in local currency in 1990. These amounts would
increase to $4.2 million and Y 20.3 million, respectively, in 1992.  Total
outstanding equity investment would be $20.8 million in foreign exchange
and Y 57.0 million in local currency at the end of 1992.
4.41      Financial Services.  CIB is introducing various financial
services, including guarantees, managed loans, letters of credit,
syndications, etc. These services do not require additional financial
resources and will, besides enhancing CIB's competitive ability, generate
income and thus help stabilize and enhance its profitability.
Resource Mobilization Plan
4.42      To meet its lending targets, CIB would need to mobilize $4.1
billion in foreign exchange and Y 5.4 billion in local currency during
1989-92. CIB's detailed resource mobilization plan, which is given in
detail in Annex 11, is summarized below in Table 4.2.



- 26 -
Table 4.2: CIB--RESOURCE MOBILIZATION PLAN, 1989-92
----- Foreign Exchange ------          ---------- Local Currency ---------
Sources        $ million     X          Sources         Y million         X
World Bank                               Government
Line of credit       650.0   22.4        New equity          750.0       19.2
Project loans a/    340.0   11.7         Loans               400.0        10.2
Subtotal            990.0   34.1          Subtotal        1,150.0       29.4
ADB                    450.0   15.5      Deposits            1,050.0       26.9
Bilateral
sources b/           130.0    4.5      Bonds                 300.0        7.7
Commercial
sources              418.0   14.4      Retained earnings    152.6         3.9
Loan recovery          677.0   23.3      Loan recovery       1,257.0       32.1
Deposits               238.0    8.2
TOTAL          2_903.0  100.0                          3.909.6      100.0
Source: CIB
a/ Provincial and sector loans to be channeled through CIB.
b/ Inclusive of the RN of the Federal Republic of Germany.
CIB would continue to meet a significant portion of its foreign exchange
needs through borrowing from the World Bank, but that borrowing would drop
to about 452 of the total new resources during 1989-92, as compared to
nearly 602 during the earlier period (1983-88). Despite this relative
decline, over the medium term, the short-term position will not show a
significant change: Bank funds would be 502 of total new foreign currency
resources in 1989-90 compared to 542 in 1987-88. GOC has explained that
while it remains committed to the diversification of CIB's resources, CIB's
proposed borrowing program for 1988-89 reflects GOC's present curbs on
credit expansion and foreign commercial borrowing designed to check
inflation. During negotiations, an understanding was reached with GOC and
CIB on CIB's resource mobilization plan for 1989-92, which shows the share
of non-Bank funds in total foreign exchange resources at 502 in 1989-90 and
592 in 1991-92. Furthermore, assurances were obtained from GOC and CIB
that in the case of any unforeseen changes in CIB's lending and borrowing
program, future foreign currency borrowing would be maintained in the same
proportioa as in the plan.
4.43      CIB also plans to diversify its local currency funding.  In
addition to GOC's equity contribution, to be made to meet the capital
adequacy criterion agreed to with the Bank (para. 4.49), CIB would tap new
deposits and approach security markets to obtain additional local currency
funds. In view of the newly emerging interest in securities in the Chinese
financial market (para. 3.13) and CIB's intention to expand working capital
loans, this plan appears timely and reasonable. During 1989-92, CIB's



- 27 -
reliance on GOC for additional local currency resources would decline to
about 292 as compared to nearly 10O2 in its early years.
D. CIB's Financial Performance, Position and Proiections
General
4.44      CIB's financial projections are based on its operational and
resource mobilization plans as discussed above. The salient features
highlighting CIB's financial performance, position and projections are
summarized in Table 4.3 (detailed historical financial data and projections
are given in Annexes 12-15).



- 28 -
Table 4.3: CIB--SUMMARY OF SELECTED HISTORICAL AND
PROJECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(Y million, unless otherwise stated)
------ Actul       ------   - Prelim -  ------ Projected ------
Y-er Ending December 31       1965    195    1967       1968     1999       1990     19m
Income Statements
Gross Incoe                  7.6    46.6   225.1      401.7    566.6      721.4  1,768.5
Profits before taxes         5.5    19.3    99.9      169.0    225.2      245.7    50s.6
Net profits
after taxes                5.1    17.7    94.5       71.9     95.6      104.9    215.1
Funds Flow Statements
Funds from operations       -       20.6    96.3       86.0    123.0      151.7    507.9
Equity contribution         -        -     250.0       -       -         260.0    250.0
Loan collections            -       63.6   567.3      390.4   5637.0     703.6  1,469.6
k w borrowings              -      839.6   654.0   1,406.7  1,484.2   1,871.3  2,742.1
Loan repayment              -    -           5.0      116.3    170.4     269.9    499.6
Loan disbursements          -      600.4 1,363.4   1,702.2  1,603.9   2,699.6  3,922.7
Balance Sheets
Current assets             619.2   644.1 1,386.3   1,337.0  1,736.6   2,066.5  4,139.7
Net long-term portfolio    31.3   594.0 2,423.4   3,699.4  4,607.4   6,062.3  8,670.6
Equity lnvestments         -         6.3    14.0       14.0     14.0      42.7    134.3
Current liabilities          0.1    81.1   610.2      893.1  1,873.4   1,962.6  3,697.0
Long-term debt (not)        145.3  635.1 1,864.b   2,600.2  3,380.9   4,267.6  6,3e8.8
Equity                      405.2   428.6 1,360.8   1,432.7  1,628.6   1,883.4  2,777.3
Ratios
Average return on term
loan portfolio (X p.a.)   3.8      7.1     8.6      10.8       9.9      10.6      11.2
Average cost of
borrowing (X p.a.)         1.2     3.0     7.1        8.8      8.0       8.1       8.2
Profit before tax/avgerage
total assets (1)           1.0     1.6    _.1         3.7      3.8       3.1       4.8
Current ratio (times)        -       6.7     2.7        1.5      1.3        1.1      1.1
Debt service coverage
ratio (times)              -       5.9     4.9        2.1      1.9       1.8       1.8
Long-term debt/equity        0.4:1   1.4:1   1.4:1      1.9:1    2.3:1      2.5:1    2.8:1
Source: CIB
Financial Performance and Position
4.45        CIB's net profits registered a rapid increase during the 1983-88
period,  as the volume of its lending increased  (para.  4.30).   Net profits
before taxes rose from Y 5.5 million in 1983 to Y 169.0 million
(preliminary figure) in 1988. However, net profits after taxes in 1988
were lower than in 1987 because of the expiration of a five-year tax
holiday in 1987. CIB retained almost all the net profits internally and



- 29 -
resycled them for lending. In 1988, the interest income on loans accounted
for 93? of gross income, the remainder being interest income from deposits
resulting from excess liquidity. The corresponding ratios for 1985 and
1987 were, respectively, 81Z and 872. The return on average assets
employed also showel gradual improvement--from 0.91 in 1983 to 3.32 in
1988. CIB's average interest spread on all foreign and local currency
loans decreased from 4.3? in 1983 to 2.0? in 1988 because of the increasing
proportion of external funds, which had a relatively higher cost. The
spread was, however, still satisfactory. The administrative expenses of
CIB, estimated at 0.2? of assets in 1988, remained low.
4.46       Provision for Bad Debts.  CIB had maintained the provision for
bad debts at 0.42 of its portfolio until 1986. CIB's financial
projections, prepared at the time of CIB IV, provided for a gradual
increase in the provision to 2Z of its portfolio by 1990. However, in 1987
CIB was required to follow MOF regulations that allowed a provision of only
0.02? of the portfolio. Then, in July 1988 MOF introduced a new
provisional regulation for all state-owned banks that increased the level
to 0.2? of the portfolio for 1988; it later increased it to 0.4? for 1989.
4.47       This level is not adequate to cover CIB's present and future
credit risks under normal circumstances. Ostensibly, the low level of the
provision for bad debts is not of serious concern because CIB provides
loans mainly to state enterprises, with repayment guarantees from the
provincial or city governments, and at present the likelihood that any
Chinese state enterprise would go bankrupt is minimal. However, this
situation is expected to change as the enterprise reforms deepen and banks
and enterprises become more accountable for their own finances and
investment decisions. During negotiations, an agreement was reached with
CIB that it would raise the provision for bad debts to a minimum level of
2? of its total loan portfolio by 1992 by making an annual allocation of
0.4? or more and understandings were reached with GOC that it would permit
CIB to take the above action.
4.48       Financial Position.  CIB's financial position is satisfactory.
As of the end of 1988, it was well-capitalized, with a long-term debt to
equity ratio of 1.9l1, well within the maximum limit of 5:1 agreed to under
the Project Agreements for CIB I-IV. CIB's high liquidity ratios and
significant amount of surplus cash reflect the underutilization of funds
for profitable lending operations and indicate the need for better
liquidity management. To develop staff expertise in this area, CIB's
training program provides for special courses and on-the-job training at
local and foreign banks.
4.49      Projected Finances.  It is expected that CIB will maintain its
satisfactory financial performance and that its financial position will
remain sound during 1989-92. CIB's total loan portfolio is expected to
grow from Y 4.1 billion in 1988 to Y 10.3 billion in 1992, resulting in an
increase in its net profits before taxes from Y 169.0 million to Y 505.8
million during the same period. As CIB's tax exemption status expired at
the end of 1987, CIB would pay a 552 tax on its net income and would retain
the remainder. The average interest spread, which was 2.02 in 1988, would
stay at the same or a higher level during the project period. CIB's



- 30 -
current ratio would decline from the 1988 level of 1:5 to 1:1 in 1992, as
CIB pursues maximum utilization of resources for term loan operations and
expands its mobilization of short-term funds to cover working capital
loans. Its long-term debt to equity ratio would be maintained within the
limit of 5:1 that it agreed to under previous Bank Group loans/credits.
During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with CIB that it would
continue to maintain a maximum long-term debt to equity ratio of 5:1.
Accounting and Financial Audits
4.50      CIB's financial accounting is carried out in accordance with
Chinese accounting principles. The State Audit Administration (SAA) has
audited annual financial statements since 1985. SAA's local branches
examined the accounts for the branches, while its head office audits the
consolidated financial statements. The quality of SAA's financial audits
has improved and its audit report for 1987 was satisfactory. SAA will
continue to perform as an independent auditor for CIB's accounts.
V. THE BANK LOAN
A. Main Features of the Loan
Onlending Terms
5.1       The People's Republic of China would be the borrower of the
proposed Bank loan of $300 million equivalent. It would onlend the loan
proceeds to CIB under a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, the signing of which would be a condition of loan effectiveness. As
under CIB I, II, III and IV, Bank funds would be onlent by GOC to CIB for
20 years, including five years' grace, with CIB allowed to roll over the
funds. The loan amount allocated for equity investments and working
capital financing would be rolled over only for similar operations in the
future.
5.2       Under CIB III and IV, the government onlent the loan/credit to
CIB at a fixed interest rate of 7Z p.a. and carried the variable interest
rate risk and the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the
currency pool. CIB onlent at a fixed interest rate of 8.51, with
subborrowers carrying the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and
the yuan. Under CIB V, CIB would pay GO- a variable interest rate equal to
the Bank rate. Subborrowers would pay a variable interest rate equal to
the Bank rate plus a minimum spread of 1.51 p.a. and would carry the
foreign exchange risk between the Bank's currency pool and the yuan.
However, subborrowers with a loan of less than $1.0 million wouJd have the
option of carrying the foreign exchange risk between the US dol.ar and the
yuan only, subject to payment of appropriate fee, in addition t! the
interest rate, to CIB for carrying the foreign exchange risk between the
currency pool and the US dollar. The fee would not be less than 0.51 p.a.,
and CIB would have the right to increase the fee up to 22 p.a. if, during
the life of the subloan, CIB considered such an increase necessary to
protect itself adequately against the exchange risk. The above option is
desirable because the greater complexity and uncertainty of the currency



- 31 -
pool risk as compared to a single currency risk, would discourage many
subborrowers, particularly those with smaller operations to borrow from
CIB. The interest spread and fee to be charged by CIB are considered
adequate to cover the associated incremental administrative costs and the
credit and exchange risks. Repayment periods for subloans would normally
not extend beyond seven years, and the maximum permissible period would be
12 years. As regards equity investments (including leasing operations),
CIB will take necessary measures to protect itself against the foreign
exchange risk. The last date for submission of subloan and equity
investment applications would be December 31, 1991. The closing date of
the loan would be December 31, 1994. Assurances on the above terms and
conditions were obtained during negotiations.
5.3        Given the above arrangements, the onlending rate for foreign
currency loans to enterprises would be significantly positive in real
terms. For local currency loans to be made by CIB from its own sources,
the interest rate would be 14.4! p.a. for a 3-5 years term and 19.261 p.a.
for a 5-10 years term. China's inflation rate was 32 p.a. in 1981-84, 8.8!
in 1985, 6! in 1986, 7.5Z in 1987 and 18.52 in 1988 (estimate) and is
projected to be 15! in 1989, 10! in 1990 and 1991 and 8! in 1992 and later
years. On the basis of the above forecast, CIB's local currency interest
rates for 3-5 years term loans would be slightly negative in 1989 but would
be positive over the life of the loans.
5.4       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) from time
to time, at the request of any party GOC and CIB would exchange views with
the Bank on the interest rates to be charged by CIB in its lending
operations in light of the cost of funds and profitability and of movements
in the interest and inflation rates in China and internationally, and
(b) CIB would exchange views with the Blank on the adequacy of CIB's fee for
carrying the exchange risk. Adjustments in the above fee would be guided
by movements in the exchange rates of the currencies in which CIB's
liabilities and loan portfolio are denominated.
Maximum Subloan Size
5.5       CIB's earlier development strategy statement provided that it
could onlend in foreign exchange up to $15 million for an inuividual
subproject. The revised development strategy provides for a limit of $20
million, mainly because of increases in the prices of imported machinery
and equipment since establishment of CIB. This limit would enable CIB to
become involved in some larger medium-sized projects, where its appraisal
techniques and standards would make a valuable contribution. However, the
average subloan size is still estimated at about $1.5 million.
Satisfactory assurances were obtained during negotiations on the maximum
subloan size.
Free Limit
5.6       Under CIB IV, the free limit from the Bank for subprojects varied
from $1 million to $2.5 million, depending on the project appraisal
capability of the individual branches. In view of the overall improvement



- 32 -
in CIB's project appraisal capability, the maximum free limit under CIB V
will be increased to $4.0 million and the minimum limit will be maintained
at $1 million. The individual limit for a branch would be within this
range and would not be more than double the internal free limit allowed by
the CIB head office for the concerned branch. Moreover, the first three
subprojects under branches that have r.tt participated in earlier Bank Group
loans/credits, regardless of size, would be treated as above the free limit
and would need prior approval of the Bank. The aggregate free limit would
be $150 million. Satisfactory assurances were obtained during negotiations
on the free limits. An estimated 30Z of the subprojects by number and 50?
by amount are expected to be above the free limits.
Environmental Safeguards
5.7       China has been paying increasing attention in recent years to
environmental issues and has established standards and controls for the
emission and disposal of the 'three wastes' (liquid, solids and gases) from
industry. Feasibility studies for CIB projects are required to cover the
environmental aspects, and CIB has given particular attention to these
issues in its appraisal reports. In addition, the latest revised version
of its Appraisal Manual will incorporate the Bank's proposals for further
elaboration of the environmental aspects of subprojects (para. 4.23).
Staff training is also planned in this area (para. 4.19). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from CIB that all subprojects will
be consistent with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank and
will include appropriate equipment for environmental protection.
Furthermore, during project implementation and before Bank approval of
individual subprojects, Bank staff would check that the necessary equipment
is included in the list of machinery to be procured for each subproject.
B. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
5.8       CIB IV provided that individual contracts of $4 million
equivalent and above would be awarded on the basis of ICB, according to the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts below $4 million would be awarded
after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers. The Bank's experience with procurement under the
earlier industrial credits to CIB has been satisfactory. The ICB limit for
CIB V would be increased from $4 million to $5 million which is considered
appropriate. It is also consistent with the limit under the recently
approved Tianjin Light Industry Project. Local bidders would be granted
the standard preference, equivalent to custom/import duties or 15? of the
cif cost, whichever is lower. Contracts below $5 million and goods under
the TA component would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of
quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers. These
contracts would be subject to post-review by the Bank, and CIB would
maintain all relevant documents in its records for this purpose. CIB would
also be responsible for overall supervision of procurement by
subborrowers. Trainers under the TA component of the project would be
employed in accordance with the Bank's guiaelines for engagement of
consultants.



- 33 -
Disbursements
5.9       Disbursements would be made against standard documentation for:
(a) subloans--1001 of foreign expenditures on goods and services for
subprojects, 100l of the ex-fa-tory price of locally manufactured equipment
procured through ICB, and inL4rest during construction on subloans payable
by an investment enterprise in foreign currency; (b) goods for TA--1OOI of
foreign expenditures. 1002 of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 752 of
items procured locally; and (c) 1002 of expenditures for overseas training
and visits by foreign trainers. Disbursements for contracts of or above
$500,000 would be made against full documentation. Disbursements for
contracts of less than $500,000 and overseas training would be made against
statements of expenditure, with full documentation held by CIB for review
by Bank supervision missions. CIB would submit a monthly statement of
expenditure giving information on the amounts of the individual subloans,
amounts of payments, purposes of the loans, names and addresses of
machinery suppliers, and the countries of origin of the machinery.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1994. The
disbursement projections are consistent with the disbursement profile of
DFC lending in China and are given in Annex 16. To facilitate project
disbursements, a Special Account to be maintained in dollars with an
authorized allocation of $15 million equivalent would be established under
the loan in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Applications for replenishment would be submitted monthly or when the
amounts withdrawn are equal to 50? of the initial deposit, whichever comes
first.
C. Reporting and Auditing Requirements
5.10      CIB will submit to the Bank (a) semi-annual reports on (i) the
progress of subprojects being implemented that are experiencing delays in
completion or cost overruns; (ii) all other subprojects upon completion of
one year of operations, with information to be provided on the performance
of individual subprojects as against anticipated construction and
operational targets (project cost, time schedule, production, sales,
exports and profitability), reasons for any cost and time overruns, and
shortfalls in meeting the original targets and actions being taken or
proposed to be taken by CIB and/or the project sponsor to improve
performance; and (b) an annual audit report on (i) CIB's accounts and (ii)
the Special Account and statements of expenditures audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. All audited accounts and statements would
be submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal year. CIB
would also prepare a project completion report within six months after
completion of the disbursements of the proposed loan. During negotiations,
understandings were reached on the above reporting requirements, and
assurances were obtained on the auditing requirements.
D. Benefits and Risks
5.11      CIB is the only development finance institution in the industrial
sector in China whose investment divisions are guided by comprehensive
appraisal of projects, including economic cost/benefit analysis. So far
CIB has focussed mainly on investment loans to the light industry sector.



- 34 -
However, to prepare itself effectively to face the competition that ib
beginning to emerge as a result of the liberalization of the financial
sector, CIB's revised development strategy calls for the introduction of
new financial products and services. The project would help in the
implementation of the above strategy and would thus support the
institutional deepening that is critical to the success of China's reform
efforts. In addition, the project would assist CIB in its further
institutional strengthening through TA for: (a) the introduction of an
electronic data processing system to improve the efficiency of CIB's
accounting and financial management information system at both the head
office and the branches; and (b) more extensive staff training,
particularly in CIB's new areas of activity.
5.12      The main beneficiaries of the financial assistance would be
small- and medium-sized restructuring projects in the light industry
category. This industry is relatively more labor-intensive and has good
potential for exports if productivity and efficiency through plant
modernization can be improved. The project would provide foreign exchange
for the import of modern technology and other inputs that would help raise
the performance of the light industry sector. The total numbtr of
beneficiary subprojects is estimated at about 200.
5.13      The project risks relate mainly to CIB's sustained and successful
institution-building. The assurances to be sought from CIB management are
designed to support these endeavors. Furthermore, the specific and
detailed procedures for ir.troducing the new products and management systems
and GOC's commitment to overall financial sector reform should ensure the
successful implementation of the project and realization of its objectives.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were received on the following
conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) State Council approval of the Loan Agreement (para. 4.4);
(b) Signing by GOC and CIB of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.1); and
(c) Ratification by the board of directors of CIB of its revised
development strategy statement and the statement of operating and
financial policies, as agreed with the Bank (para. 4.7).
6.2       Assurances were also received on the following conditions:
(a) from GOC:
(i) that it would onlend the loan proceeds to CIB at a variable
interest rate equal to the Bank rate (para. 5.2);
(il) that it would, along with CIB, exchange views with the Bank
on interest rates (para. 5.4); and



- 35 -
(iii) that it would permit CIB to meet its obligation with
respect to resource mobilization (para. 4.42).
(b) from CIB:
(i} that it would onlend and invest loan proceeds on terms and
conditions ani in accordance with subproject eligibility
criteria, as agreed with the Bank (paras. 4.5. 5.1, 5.2
and 5.4);
(ii) that it would implement its agreed staff training program
(para. 4.20) and electronic data processing system
(para. 4.27);
(iii) that it would apply operational guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank for working capital loans, equity investments and
leasing operations and would issue these guidelines before
providing such assistance under the proposed Bank loan
(para. 4.24);
(iv) that it would mobilize funds during 1989-92 from various
sources in proportions agreed to with GOC and the Bank
(para. 4.42);
(v) that it would increase its provision for bad debts by 0.42
p.a. or more of its portfolio leading to an accumulated
provision equal to a minimum of 22 of its portfolio by
1992 (para. 4.47);
(vi) that the branch free limits with respect to the Bank would
be set at $1.0-$4.0 million, with the specific limit foe
each branch to be not more than double the free limit to
be allowed by the CIB head office for that branch
(para. 5.6);
(vii) that its debt/equity ratio would not exceed 5:1
(para. 4.49);
(viii) that it would exchange views with the Bank on its interest
rates and fee for foreign exchange risk (para 5.4); and
(ix)   that it would meet agreed reporting and auditing
requirements (para. 5.10).
6.3       Understandings were reached on the following matters:
(a) GOC will take appropriate action to permit CIB to increase its
provision for had debts (para 4.47);
(b) CIB's exposure in any one industrial subsector would not exceed
25Z of its total portfolio and its loans to nonstate enterprises
would be at least 10 of the total loan approvals in future
(para. 4.32);



- 36 -
(c) Details of CIB's revised periodical reports to be provided to the
Bank (para. 4.28);
(d) CIB's resource mobilization plan for 1989-92 showing a continued
shift in the resource-mix (para. 4.42);
(e) Details of the TA component for CIB's training program
(para. 4.20); and
(f) CIB's policy and strategy for establishing new branches
(para. 4.12).
6.4       With the above conditions, assurances and understandings, the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $300 million repayable over
20 years, including five years' grace, on standard terms to be made to the
People's Republic of China and onlent to CIB.



- 37 -
CHM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MX
F1FTH DUSPRI. CZDT PROJECT
Rates tp to        - - - - - - - Notes effectiv  - - - - - - -
July 19W6        August 1, 1996  Sept 18 199J   Feb. 1, 1989
jItem                            ( P.O.)            (C p.O.)        (X p.o.)        (X p.o.)
Individual Deposits
Desnd deposits                     2.89               2.3            2.38              2.88
Tlm_ deposits
6 months                         4.32               6.12           6.49             9.00
1 year                           5.76               7.20           8.64            11.84
3 years                          6.84               9.28           9.72            13.14
6 years                          7.92               9.86          10.80            14.94
* years                          9.00              10.44          12.42            17.64
Enterprise Deposit,
Demand depotits                    1.80               1.80           2.88             2.88
Time deposits
1 year                           3.60               4.32           3.64            11.34
2 years                          4.32               5.04           9.18            12.24
years                           6.04               5.76           9.72            18.14
6 yeors                          n.a.               n.o.          10.80            14.94
8 years                          n.n.               n.s.          12.42            17.64
Loans
Circulating capital                7.20               7.92           9.0             11.34
Settl ment/State appropriation   3.60                 3.60           4.32            d/
Modernization loans:
Under 1 year                     6.04               7.92           9.0             11.34
1-3 years                        6.76               8.64           9.90            12.78
3-5 years                        6.48               9.86          10.80            14.40
6-10 years                       7.20              10.08          18.82            19.26
Over 10 years                    7.92              10.80          16.20           +24.0 g/
Foreign exchange loans:
Bank of China pj                   8.0-9.5            8.6-9.6        6.1-10.6
China Investment Bank b/           8.0                8.0            8.6
Capital construction                 2.4-3.6            2.4-4.2        7.92-9.36
Loans to urban and rural
individual enterprises             8.64               9.386-11.62     9.72           d/
p/  The Bank of China rates are linked to Its borrowing cost In different
currencies. The rates for 1988 ore 6-month variable rotes for 3-5 yeoar term.
b/  CIB is charging 8.5X rate on CIB IV.
g/  Interest rate will depend on maturity period.
d/  To be determined by MOF and SPC.
Source: PCBC
AS3IF, March 1989



-38 -                          Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
China Investment Bank
Development Strategv Statement
(Revised January 1989)
Background
1.        In 1981, the Chinese government established the China Investment Bank
(CIB) as a specialized banking institution to provide mainly foreign currency
financing to the industrial sector. Since then, CIB has successfully built-up an
organization and adequate procedures to undertake this major activity and has
managed four loans from the World Bank and borrowed from the other foreign
sources. At the same time, the Chinese government has been implementing major
reforms in the industrial and financial sectors. This has resulted in the need
for industry and financial institutions to adjust to the evolving environment.
Specifically, the reforms have opened up and encouraged more competition and more
market oriented policies. Under this emerging situation and to achieve its
general objectives and guided by its operational and financial policies, CIB has
adopted this development strategy. The strategy is aim,d at achieving the main
objective of CIB to be an autonomous, dynamic and sound banking institution in
China which provides appropriate financial and technical assistance to the
industrial sector. The major aspects of this strategy are contained below.
Lending Operations
2.        Portfolio.  CIB will continue to focus on small- and medium-sized
projects listed in national plan which are export-oriented or efficient import
substitution. These projects are aimed at improving economic efficiency
including adaption of new and appropriate technology. Based on its intensive
studies of major industrial subsectors, CIB will undertake continuing reviews of
the financial and technical assistance requirements of these subsectors. Based
on these reviews, CIB will set up operational targets with the objective of
diversifying its portfolio by major industrial subsectors. For projects in
subsectors in which CIB's exposure exceeds a reasonable limit, CIB will normally
either ccfinance or syndicate the financing requirements. Given the dynamic
growth of enterprises outside the public sector, such as collectives and TVEs,
CIB will increase its financing to such enterprises for which it shall develop
the appropriate financing policies.
3.        Product lines.  In line with its portfolio growth and diversification
objectives, CIB will increasingly provide new product lines and services. In
addition to its traditional investment loans, CIB is experiencing greater demand
from industrial enterprises for working capital and equity funds. In the future,
CIB will actively provide these funds as a total financing service to its
clients. These would place CIB not only in a better position to service its
clients but would also provide a built-in mechanism to monitor their operations
and repayment capacity. CIB will provide both short-term and medium-term free-
standing working capital loans particularly in foreign currency to ensure
availability of imported inputs required by exporters. Whenever feasible, CIB
will invest and/or underwrite equity shares of its clients. This will not only



- 39 -                          Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
provide greater profit potential but also would assist enterprises to undertake
projects with appropriate capital structures. Through its equity portfolio, CIB
could be better poised to provide assistance and advice in the operations of its
clients.  CIB's equity policy is to be a catalyst in raising such resources and
will attempt to limit its investments with appropriate underwriting and/or
private placements and will only be a minority shareholder.
4.        CIB will also examine the feasibility of undertaking leasing operations
particularly to meet single equipment requirements of industrial enterprises
which would have immediate impact on productivity and efficiency but without
major strains on their financial situation. In this connection, CIB will
continuously monitor developments in the industrial and financial sector and
adjust its policies and operations accordingly to maximize its impact, improve
its services to its clients and ensure its growth and sound financial standing.
Financial Management
5.        Resources.  As a prudent financial practice, CIB shall diversify its
sources of funds in both domestic and foreign currencies. While it will continue
to borrow from international agencies such as the World Bank/ADB, CIB will
increasingly raise funds from foreign financial markets. Accordingly, CIB has
prepared a medium-term plan indicating its resource requirements and identifying
potential sources and types of instrument to be utilized, i.e., credit lines,
long-term loans, bond issues, etc. As a working guideline, CIB's plan attempts
to limit its outstanding loans from a single source to a reasonable multiple of
its equity. CIB will establish correspondent banking relationship with major
financial institutions including obtaining L/C facilities for its operatioins and
advisory services on resource mobilization.
6.        CIB will raise as much deposits as possible both in local and foreign
currencies. It will develop the appropriate deposit instruments so that these
could be expanded as a source of funds for its lending operations particularly on
short-term working capital and/or trade financing. CIB will also examine and
assist in the development of the "money market." As soon as feasible, it will
consider the issuance of its own marketable certificate of deposits and the
securitization of its short-term loans to its clients via marketable commercial
papers.
7.        Accounting/financial information system.  CIB is conscious of the need
for an efficient information system as the base for the implementation of its
strategy and operational plans. It will vigorously implement its approved
'financial management procedures and information system." CIB will form a task
force which will draw up a time-bound action program over two years indicating
additional types of reports to be generated, their frequency, responsible
persons/departments/branches. This task force will also be responsible for the
monitoring of the operations of the system. Priority will be made in completing
its long-form audit report together with all the required schedules, reports to
management, government and creditors (World Bank) on operational results. This
program will include specific plans on the 'computerization' of its information
system. It will also include visits to all branches/subbranches to provide full-
time assistance and training in setting up and operating the system.
8.        CIB will prepare five-year rolling operational and financial plans
which will be monitored regularly and updated annually. This plan will include
monitorable financial data on the performance of branches as 'profit centers".



- 40 -                          Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Proiect Management
9.        Appraisal standards and procedures.  CIB will continuously upgrade its
appraisal standards antd modify procedures to achieve efficiency. This would
include the delegation of authority on day-to-day operations to its branches.
CIB will regularly update its appraisal manual to include new approaches and
standards for projects resulting from actual experiences. It will continue to
seek assistance from concerned bureaus and departments for its technical
appraisals and, where necessary, employ outside consultants. At the same time,
CIB will recruit and train selected technical staff to attain some in-house
technical expertise for appraisal. CIB will closely monitor and provide feedback
to its branches. It will conduct periodic workshops in the branches to exchange
experiences and to address specific issues as needed including those on appraisal
standards and procedures. As a means of monitoring and quality control, project
proposals and appraisal will continue to be examined by 'Staff Investment Groups'
in the head office and branches prior to presentation to the approving authority.
These committees meet periodically, and include the vice-presidents, advisers and
representatives of project related divisions. They are expected to review not
only the overall feasibility of the projects but also compliance witn CIB's
overall policies and strategy.
10.       Supervision standards and procedures.  In view of the large and
increasing number of accounts and clients, CIB will intensify implementation of
its "Supervision Regulation for Loan-Financed Project." Its Credit Management
Divisions/Departments (CMD) will implement a system for the preparation of
'project completion reports' (PCR) and wprogress reports' for each project for
CIB's management review and submission to World Bank and others as required. It
will monitor its loan collection performance at least on a quarterly basis
against agreed repayment reschedules.  Clients experiencing difficulties during
construction, operations, or repayment delays will be focused on by assignment of
'task forces' to be constituted in the branches and/or head office as required.
Repayment monitoring will be closely coordinated with Loan Accounting to ensure
proper billing, follow-up and collection. Special problem projects will be
identified for which required studies will be undertaken together with an
approved time-bound action program.
Organization staffing and training
11.       CIB will identify and adopt the required and suitable organization and
staffing requirements to implement the above strategy considering particularly
the proposed new product lines and requirements for financial planning and fund
management. Priority will be to fill up existing vacancies and assignment of
full-time staff both in the head office and branch level. CIB will prepare and
implement a rolling five-year staff recruitment and training program.



-41 -                           Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
CHINA INVISTMENT BANK V
Statement of Operating and Financial Policies
(Revised in April 1989)
Obiectives
1.        The China Investment Bank (CIB) has been authorized by the Chinese
government as a bank to mobilize funds from internal and external sources for the
industrial sectorl/ and investment financing is the mainstay of its activities.
These basic goals are to be attained by providing various forms of financial and
technical assistance for the balancing, modernization, rehabilitation, and
expansion of existing enterprises as well as the establishment of new
enterprises. It will assist in the GOC's socialist modernization program by
identifying, promoting, and developing economically efficient projects and
investment proposals. It will also assist the government in implementing
financing provided by other governments and foreign institutions.
Scope of Financing
2.        CIB will provide financial and technical assistance t3 industrial
enterprises under the direction of the overall national construction policy and
national economic plans and in conformity with the unified financial policy of
the nation and CIB's own operational regulations. The projects of these
en erprises should be incorporated in the investment plans of various
administrative authorities and would normally be small- and medium-sized and
export-oriented. The basic and heavy industries2/ will normally be outside CIB's
scope of operations. While CIB's main focus will be on the medium- and long-term
financial requirements of these enterprises, it will also assist in meeting other
financial requirements. CIB will also finance and invest in joint ventures.
Method of Financing
3.        CIB will provide and/or arrange financial and technical assistance to
eligible enterprises in one or several of the f3llowing:
(a) medium- and long-term investment loans in local and foreign
currencies;
(b) short-term and medium-term finances for working capital in local
and foreign currencies;
I/ With a few exceptions to be approved by the CIB head o.fice, the industrial
sector refers to the manufacturing industry.
2/ These will include the manufacture of metals (iron and steel, aluminum,
etc.), machine-building (power generating machinery and equipment, metal
working machinery, specialized machinery for particular industries,
electrical machinery) manufacture of transport equipment (railway vehicles,
aircraft, ships, motor vehicles, tractors) machine tools, pumps, mechanical
handling equipment, basic chemicals and pharmaceuticals, and refineries.



Annex 3
- 42 -                            Page 2 of 4
(c) purchase and underwriting of share capital, debentures, bonds and
other debt in.-truments and securities;
(d) guarantees;
(e) lease financing;
(f) syndication, consultancy services and international settlements;
and
(g) other banking, financial, and investment operations which may be
required by the industrial and ser-ice related sectors and approved
by its Board of Directors including the administration of projects
and financing provided by other governments and foreign
institutions.
General Investment Policies
4.        CIB shall select projects on the basis of the following basic criteria:
the products have export potentials or are import substitutes which can be
produced efficiently; based on CIB's careful and extensive appraisal, the
projects are technically, financially and economically feasible and are under
adequate management; emphasis will be made on projects with modest investment
cost, immediate results, and adequate capacity to repay debt obligations.
5.        Based on the requirements of the industrial sector and developments in
the financial sector, CIB will follow a policy of diversifying its loan and
investment pcrtfolio by j.ndustrial subsectors, by regions, and type of
enterprises, including collectives and TVEs.
6.        CIB will also follow a policy of divetsifying its sources of financing
both in local and foreign currencies with the objective of not dependi-g
excessively on a single source and financing instrument. It will maintain a
prudent and balanced maturity structure as regards its borrowings and financing
operations.
7.        In accordance with prudent banking practices, CIB will require its
financial exposure to be adequately secured in addition to its emphasis on the
repayment capacity and sound management of its clients.
8.        CIB will not seek controlling financial and management interest in any
financed enterprise except when in its judgement, it is necessary to protect its
interests.
Financial and Operational Guidelines
9.        CIB will normally require its borrowers to submit a detailed
feasibility study for CIB's appraisal. Its approval will be based on meeting the
criteria established in its "Industrial Credit Project Appraisal Manual."
10.       The eligible expenditure on CIB's foreign currency investment loans
will be mainly the import of equipment and technology while its local currency
loans will cover local costs of ancillary domestic equipment and civil works.
Cost of foreign consultants and/or required foreign exchange expenditures for



- 43 -                           Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
proper project implementation may also be eligible. Working capital loans will
focus on 'incremental' working capital requirements although existing
requirements may be eligible to ensure availability of required inputs.
11.       CIB's exposure limits will be as follows:  maximum foreign currency
loan to single project $20 million equivalent and that of local currency shall be
RMB 40 million. However, total *cumulative' exposure (investment and working
capital loans, equity, guarantees, etc.) of CIB in a single enterprise shall not
exceed 202 of its total equity (paid-in capital plus reserves). CIB will require
its subborrowers to finance at least 10 to 30Z (depending on GOC policy) of the
total project costs. The balance of financing requirements will be met by CIB
from its own sources and/or syndicated or cofinanced with other local and foreign
financial institutions. In subprojects with low self-financing by subborrowers,
CIB will give particular attention to a satisfactory debt/equity ratio of the
enterprise and CIB's total exposure in the enterprise (normally not more than 70Z
of enterprise's total assets including project costs). In very exceptional
circumstances, CIB could consider foreign currency loan exceeding $20 million
equivalent out of funds received from foreign government sources. For individual
equity investments, CIB shall limit its share holdings to a maximum of 49? of the
enterprise's share capital; CIB's total equity investments shall not exceed 30?
of its share capital and reserves.
12.       The interest rates on its foreign currency loans shall be at its
borrowing rate plus a reasonable margin. Interest rates on local currency loans
shall be comparable to interest rates of other banks in China for similar loans.
13.       The repayment period on its loans shall not exceed twelve years
including a grace period of up to three years. The final repayment period shall
be based on the projected capacity of the borrower to tepay. CIB expects the
maturity of its loans to average about seven years and this shall be spelled out
in its loan contracts with borrowers specifying the major terms and conditions of
the loans including an agreed repayment schedule. CIB shall put priority in the
repayments on foreign currency loans. Any amount in principal and interest not
paid on due dates, shall be subject to a penalty fee equivalent to 20? p.a. above
the existing rate. If the proceeds of its loan have been found to have been
diverted to uses other than those agreed upon, the borrower shall be liable to
pay an additional fee equal to 50? p.a. for the period that the funds remain
diverted.
14.       CIB shall protect itself against the foreign exchange risks of its
foreign currency borrowings to the full extent possible. CIB will normally pass
on the foreign exchange risks to its borrowings. In cases where the "full" risks
are not carried by the borrowers, CIB may absorb such risks but would charge a
reasonable fee. CIB shall draw up and regularly review concrete provisions and
regulations for the implementation of this policy.
15.       CIB shall ensure that appropriate procurement procedures are followed
by its borrowers. Internatioral competitive bidding shall be used for individual
contracts amounting to over $5.0 million equivalent; below this amount,
procurement shall be based on securing at least, three competitive and acceptable
quotations.
16.       CIB shall conduct systematic inspection and supervision of the projects
in accordance with its 'Supervision Regulation for Loan-Financed Projects" to
ensure the proper utilization of the loan proceeds, accelerate implementation,
improve management, maximize economic benefits of the investments and ensure loan
rennvment.



44                            Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
17.       CIB shall maintain a prudent capital structure.  CIB will also make
adequate provisions for doubtful debts and will build-up such accumulated
provisions in relation to the quality of its portfolio. However, as a prudent
policy, CIB will increase and maintain its accumulated provisions to at least, 22
of gross outstanding loan portfolio.
18.       CIB shall maintain an accurate and timely accounting and reporting
system. It will regularly conduct corporate and financial planning and pay
particular attention to the efficient management of funds to ensure timely
availability and adequate spreads and cash-flow.
Staffing/Organization
19.       CIB will build up an efficient and dynamic organization with
appropriate staff which are qualified and trained in their respective fields of
discipline. CIB will adopt various measures to vigorously recruit and train
operational staff and raise standards and shall gradually establish branches and
subbranches as and when feasible.



CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Training Program 1969-93
Duration     Proposed                     - Number of Staff/Experts -
Type of Training                  of Training    Location                     1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   Total
Forign Training
Project appraisal                2 months      Commercial banks              2      2     2     2      2      10
Treasury/planning                3 months      Co m  rcial banks             1      1     1     -      -       3
Problem projects                 2 months      Development banks             2      2     2     2      2      10
Economics course                 1 yer         University                    9      5     6     5      5      29
Computers                       2 months       Specialized institutions    8        -     -     -      -       8
Banking anagement                2 months      Development banks             2      2     2     2      2      10
International settlements        2 months      Co_mercial banks              8     8      4     4      4      28
Fund management                 6 months       Commercial banks              2      2     2     2      2      10
Personnel training               2 months       Commercial banks             -      1     1     -      -       2
Subeector training               2 months      Development banks             1      1     -     -      -       2
Group seminar                    1 month       EDI/oth-r                    1S      -     -     -      -      1S
Foreign Experts
Computer                         2months       China                         1      1     1     -      -       3
Market                           2months       -do-                          1      -     -     -      -       1
Financial analysis               2 months       -do-                         1      -     -     -      -       1
Supervision                      2 months       -do-                         1      -     -     -      -       1
Environment advisor              2 wonths       -do-                         -      1      -    -      -       1
Subsector advisor                3 montis       -do-                         -      1     -     -      -       1
Domestic Training
International settlements        2 weeks       China                        40)     -     -     -      -      40
International financ, course   I onth          -do-                         40    40    40    40    40       200
English language courss 5u   onths              -d&-                        60    60    60      -      -     180
Appraisal course                 1 month        -do-                       100   100   100   100   100       S00
Computer course                  20 days       -do-                         40    40    40    40    40       200
Interrational settlements        20 days       -do-                         40    40      -     -      -      so
Equity analysis                  2 months      -do-                          5      S     -     -      -      10
Working capital                  2 months       -do-                         5    10    10      -      -      25
Leasing operations               2 months       -do-                         5      5     -     -      -      10
Environmental training           1 month       -do-                         26    25      -     -      -      60
Project supervision              I month        -do-                         -    40    40    40       -     120
Note: Local currency cost of training will be financed by CIB from its own sources. Part of the foreign currency
coot of training will be financed from non-Bank sources



ANNEX S
-46 -
uxvm aflIs UWSmw? mm POJCT
CID - Actal *ad Plaamd Tom Lro . O rstlem. l9Ci-9
(Is milIlea pm.   llm  1e_thela  stted)
- - - - - - - - - Actul - - - - - - - -        PrlI. - - - - - - - Planned - - - - - - -
1963    1964      1965     1966       19W7       19"        1969      1960       1991       1m
Approve I o
Loei curr.ncy          166.2   159.0    334.1    272.4        496.4      514.0      597.0    724.4       923.3   1,191.9
Foroign curroncy !/   139.4   186.4    639.1    625.8   1,491.0   1,699.6    1,469.4  1,772.6   2,261.0   2,921.6
(3 million)          (49.8)  (66.2)  (215.3)  (161.6)   (400.8)   (430.0)    (396.0)  (476.6)   (607.3)   (7865.4)
Totsl               304.6   324.4    973.2    891.2   1. 99.4   2.118.6    2.06.4  1.497.0   3L164.3   4.113.5
Coamitment.
iLocr currency          76.1   163.1    326.1    844.2        467.6      486.3      667.2    666.2       877.1   1,132.3
Foreign currency x/    48.7   231.0    601.7    609.9   1,138.0   1,619.6    1,396.9  1,664.0   2,148.0   2,776.6
(3 million)          (17.4)  (82.6)  (202.7)  (178.9)   (306.9)   (406.6)    (376.3)  (462.7)   (677.4)   (749.1)
Total               124.0   419.1    929.8    964.1   1,59696                             A_ 1 .   2   3    
Disbursemente            -    -              ---                           -
T7oxiTeurr ncy           33.7    60.2    261.0    364.6       460.9      430.0       440.6    670.9      740.6      860.0
Foreign currency x/    10.9    62.9    349.4    697.0         912.6   1,272.2    1,177.3  1,699.9   1,999.2   2,360.6
(3 million)           (3.9)  (16.9)  (117.7)  (200.0)   (246.3)   (342.0)    (316.6)  (457.0)   (637.4)   (634.6)
Total                44.6   133.1    600.4  1.061.8   1.363.4   1,702.2    1A618.0  2.A370.8   7.739.3   3,210.6
Loan R-py ;ntx
L_7oa Tcrroney           4.6    10.1       38.1     28.5       81.6      130.0      165.0    220.0       361.0     511.0
Foreign currency a/         -     1.7      25.5    141.2      286.7     260.4       372.0    483.6       714.2     940.6
(3 million)             -      (0.6)    (8.6)   (39.2)    (76.8)    (70.0)    (100.0)  (130.0)   (192.0)   (266.0)
Total                 4.8    11.8      63.6    169.7       367.3     390.0       637.0    703.6   1.076.2   1,469.6
Loan Portfolio
Local currency          26.9    99.0    318.3    t43.3   1,100.3   1,400.3    1,676.9  2,126.8   2,506.4   2,845.4
Foroign currency o/    10.9    60.6    369.1  1,068.6   1,694.1   2,706.9    3,611.2  4,727.6   6,012.6   7,424.3
(3 million)           (3.9)  (21.6)  (131.1)  (288.0)   (455.4)   (727.4)    (943.9)(1,270.8) (1,9O6.3) (1,996.8)
Total                39.6   169.5    707.4  1.711.8   2,794.3   4.106.2    6,187.1  6.864.3   8.ti1.8  10.269.7
1/  Exchange rate-:  1963/84                31 = Y 2.80;
1965              : 31 = Y 2.9682;
January-June 1966:  81 5 Y 3.20;
July 1986 - 1992 : 81 = Y 3.72.
March 1989
AS3IF



- 47 -
ANNE': 6
FIFThC WM  DtSTIIT SMD   POJECT
CI - L=  &=vale bv Sector ai  Brach, Jismorw 1. 196  - Decembtr 81. 1966
l iI  iloe far  repoees  "exive* lnes    is   mi ilIieo  *ovr othre)
Foreign              Locol
No. of      Exchns  Loans        Curr ncv Loans          Tot l
Proj cts     Amount  -             A'r  ount   x     AmounVj     X
By Sector
Light Industry               262      801.7       28.8       496.2    25.6   1,510.9    28.7
Building materials            20       87.8        2.9        66.5     8.6      196.9      S.1
Machinery                     93      111.6        6.0       189.9     7.4    567.8        6.4
Textilea                     258      418.6       82.3       506.2    26.7   1,966.2    80.6
Electric A slectronics       106      18O.8       10.1       150.6     6.0      599.6      9.4
Ch-micals                     52       94.6        7.8       126.9     6.7      456.1      7.2
Metallurgical                 25       60.0        4.8        64.5     4.4      262.8      4.4
Medical                       33       32.8        2.6        62.3     2.7      164.9      2.5
Packaging                     19       15.8        1.1        32.3     1.7       60.2      1.2
Food proceoeing               30       24.6        1.9        43.7     2.8      127.8      2.0
Services                      33       62.0        4.0       134.6     7.1      318.6      4.9
Agricultural A forestry        9       10.2         .8        14.4       .7      60.6       .6
Consumer goods                34        8.8         .6        46.9     2.4      744.9      1.1
Other                          4          .2        .02        7.4       .4       8.3       .1
Total                    998    1.294.1       100.0    1.S93.0                       100.0
By Branch
Heod Ot?ic-                    6          .9        .01       40.0     2.1       42.8       .6
Beijing                       35       43.4         ..3       96.0     6.0      246.9      3.8
Tianjin                       61       86.2        6.7       160.3     8.4      436.0      6.8
Hobei                         91       89.6        6.9       126.3     6.6      422.2      6.6
Shanxi                         8       17.3        1.3        14.6     0.7       77.6      1.2
Innner Mongolia               15       17.4        1.3        26.9     1.4       88.3      1.4
Liaoning                      63       99.3        7.7       119.8     6.3      472.8      7.4
Shoryang                      30       38.2        2.9        6e.6     2.9      188.1      2.9
Dalian                        36       43.6        3.3       65.4      2.9      215.3      3.3
Jilin                         20       34.1        2.6        41.5     2.1      166.3      2.6
Heilongjiang                  20       28.3        2.2        36.7      1.9     138.9      2.1
Harbin                         3        1.9        0.1         2.4     0.1        9.6       .1
Shanghai                      63       76.8        5.9       149.8     7.9      415.7      6.5
Jiangsu                      162      176.9       13.7       274.1    14.4      854.8    13.4
Nanjing                        0        C          0           0       0          0        0
Zhojian                       46       52.2        4.0        73.7     3.9      266.8      4.0
Ningbo                         0        0          0           0       0          0        0
Anhui                         34       63.4        4.1        76.2     3.9      264.6      4.0
Fujian                        43       33.2        2.6        31.7     1.6      142.4      2.2
Fuzhou                         1       12.4        0.1         0       0         46.8       .1
Jiangxi                        6        S.9         .4         8.4       .4      30.3       .4
Shandong                      49       67.9        5.2       102.8     5.4      347.6      6.4
Qingdao                       19       26.0        2.0        2-9      1.1      118.3      1.8
H4enan                         7       46.4        3.6        51.8     2.7      203.2      3.1
Hubei                         75       71.6        5.6       115.5     6.1      362.3      5.7
Wuhan                          8        7.2         .6         9.7       .6      32.5       .6
Hunan                         23       36.0        2.7        46.6     2.4      174.7      2.7
Guangdonj                     26       42.6        3.3        46.0     2.4      199.8      8.1
Guangzhou                     10       26.4        1.9        14.2       .7     108.2      1.7
Shenzhen                       6        6.8         .4         2.4       .1      23.9       .3
Zhuhai                         0        0          0           0       0          0        0
Hainan                         2          .6        .04        3.1       .16      6.0       .08
Guangxi                       16       21.1        1.6        38 9     2.05    114.8       1.8
Sichuan                       23       21.9        1.7        21.4     1.13    100.4       1.6
Chongqing                      9       13.2        1.0        17.9       .9      66.9      1.0
Guizhou                        2          .4        .03         .6       .02      2.0       .03
Yunnan                         0        0          0           0       0          0        0
Shaanxi                        2        6.6         .4         8.2       .44     28.9       .4
Xinjiang                       3        2.27        .1         3.0       .2      11.4       .2
Tital                    996    1,294.1       100.0    1,89S.0   100.0   6,382.7   100.0
AS3IF
April 1989



0'IH
X                                                                        0
FIFTH CHDM DIVESTW  WM  PRMJECT
CD - Setel D)etributi.e of Subsej.cta thWdr CD I. II. III an  IV, as of December  1. 1    /
(S SiII ie)
Subprojects          Subprojects           Subproj cta         Subprojocts
Under CIS I         Under CIB II          Under CIB III        Under CIB IV                Total Subprojictu
Industrial suboecter         No. Imeunt  X        No.  mount  I           No.  mount  X        No. Amount  x          No.   U    Amount   X
Ligt Industry                19   30.9  44.6      42   Sl.5  33.7         24   33.7  33.7      56   74.9  26.6       141  26.3   196.6  30.7
Building materiel.            2    2.3  3.4         3    4.1  2.4          4    7.7  7.7        4    6.4  1.9         13   2.6    19.7   3.1
Machiery and perts            6    6.1  3.7        13    3.4  4.8          8    6.6  6.6       28   40.8  13.9        54   10.8    61.9   9.7
Textiles ad clothing         13   12.5  18.0      42   42.4  24.1         12   12.4  12.4      71   98.9  33.7       13S  27.7   166.4  26.0
Electreolce                   7    6.0  7.3       20   23.7  13.4         14   21.1  21.1      16   19.7  6.7         67  1!.6    69.6  10.9
Chmical                       1      .9  1.4       8   13.9  7.9           4    5.0  6.0       14   24.4  8.3         27   6.4    44.3   6.9
Metallurgical                 a    5.1  7.4         2    1.4  1.0          2    5.6  6.5        8   22.2  7.6         15   3.0    34.4   5.4
co Pharmeutacal                  4    4.6   6.7        6    3.9  2.2          3    4.6  4.6        6    4.8  1.6         19   3.9    17.9   2.8
Pack"ino  mterials              1      .6  1.0      11   10.3  5.9           2      .6  0.6       0    -    -           14   2.3    11.6   1.3
Feed processing               0    -    -          7    A.3  2.7           1    $-0  3.0        4    2.6  0.8         12   2.4    10.3   1.6
Service.                      1    1.0  1.4        4    2.9  1.7           0    -    -          a    -    -            6   10       3.9   0.6
Agricultural, foreetry,
dairy precte                0    -    -           2    3.0  1.7          0    -    -          0    -    -            2   0.4       3.0    0.5
Cons.                         0    -    -           1      .6   .3         0    -    -          0    -    -            1   0.2        .6   0.1
Other                         0    -    -           0    -    -            0    -    -          0    -    -            0    -        -      -
Total                   St   639.2 100.0    161   176.9 100.0        74  100.0 100.0    207  293.7 100.0        496  100.0   640.0  100.0
/  CIB I (Lea 2226/Credit 1313CHIA), CIB II (Loan 2434/Credit 1491-CHA), CIB III (Loan 2659/Credit 1663-CHA) and CIO IV (Loan 27833Credit 1763-CHA).
Light indutry lelinda footear, loather prcducts and other *ucF consumer goods.
ASUIF
April 1699



Ir..cN
K                                                                               CHINA
FIFTH CHINA INVESTMHNT BSA   PROJECT
CD - Geesra hical Distribution of Subprojecta Under CIB I. II. III and IV. as of December 31. 198 p/
(V oillions)
Subprojects            Subprojects            Subprojects            Subprojects
Under CIB I           Under CIB II              Under CIB III        Under CIB IV              Total Subprojects
Industral  subector        No.   Amount    X      No.   Amount   X        No.   Amount   U        No.   Amount   X           No.   U   Amount    x
Hed office                  0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -          0      -      -           0 -           -      -
Beijing                     2      1.2    1.8       6      7.1    4.0      3       1.1   1.2       6      10.2    3.5        17   3.4      19.8    3.1
Tianjin                     9    22.6   32.5        7     19.1   10.9      6       6.6   6.4       17     22.7    7.7        39   7.8      69.9   10.9
Hebei                       3    11.0   16.9       22     16.3    9.3      5       7.7   7.7       8      16.2    6.2        43   9.6      60.3    7.9
Shanxi                      0      -      -         1      2.0    1.1      2        .9    .9        0      -      -           3    .6       2.9      .6
Inner Mongolin              0      -      -        2       2.0    1.2      2      3.7   3.7        a       3.8    1.3         7   1.4       9.6    1.6
Liaoning                    0      -      -         9      6.6    3.1      6       7.9   7.9       16     26.3    9.0        29   6.8      39.7    6.2
Shenynng                    1       .4     .7       7      7.9    4.6      1        .4   0.4        7     12.3    4.2        18   3.2      21.0    3.3
Dalian                      1       .4     .6       2      1.2      .7     0       -     -          8      6.6    1.9        11   2.2       7.2    1.1
Jilin                       0      -      -         0      -      -        2      4.1   4.1       10      10.9    3.7        12   2.4      16.2    2.4
Heilongjiong                0      -      -         0      -       -       1       1.3   1.3       4      11.7    4.0         5   1.0      13.0    2.0
Harbin                      0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -          0      -      -           0   -         -      -
Shangh ai                   2      3.6    6.3      10     16.9    9.6      4      2.1   2.1       16      30.3   10.3        32   6.4      63.0    8.3
O  Jiangsu                     26    22.7   32.9      40      46.3   26.3      9     26.6  26.6       25      23.7    8.1       100  20.1    119.6   18.7
4 Nanjing                       0     -       -        0      -       -       0       -     -          0      -       -           0-           -       -
Zhbjiang                    0      -      -        10     10.6    6.0      3      6.1   6.1       10       9.7    3.3        23   4.6      26.6    4.1
Ningbo                      0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -          0      -      -           0°-           -      -
Anhui                       0      -      -         7      6.8    3.9      7      9.1   9.1        8      13.6    4.6        22   4.4      29.5    4.6
Fujian                      S      5.6    8.0      6       4.4    2.6      3      1.8   1.8        4       6.0    1.7        18   3.6      16.9    2.7
Fuzbou                      0      -      -         0      -      -        0      -      -         0       -      -           0             -      -
Jiangxi                     0      -      -         0      -      -        1        .4    .4       0       -      -           1    .2        .4      .1
Shandong                    0      -      -         6      6.6    3.8      4      4.2   4.2       12      18.3    6.2        21   4.2      29.1    4.6
Qingdao                     0      -      -         0      -       -       0      -      -         6      11.1    3.8         6   1.2      11.1    1.7
Henan                       0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -         1        .7      .2        1    .2        .7      .1
Hubei                       2      1.6    2.3      13      8.4    4.8    11       11.4  11.4      16      16.6    6.6        42   8.4      38.2    6.0
Wuhan                       0      -      -         4      4.4    2.5      0       -     -         0       -      -           4    .8       4.3      .7
Hunan                       0      -      -         1       .9    0.6      1        .2    .2       6       6.6    1.9         7   1.4       6.7    1.0
Cuengdong                   0      -      -         2      5.8    3.3      2       1.6   1.6       9      14.9    6.1        13   2.6      22.3    3.6
Cuangzhou                   0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -         2       6.3    2.1         2    .4       6.3    1.0
Sh.nzhen                    0      -      -         0      -       -       0      -      -         0       -      -           0   -         -      -
Zhuhai                      0      -      -         0      -      -        0      -      -         0       -      -           0-            -      _
Hnainan                     0      -      -         0      -       -       0      -      -         0       -      -           0-            -      -
Cuangxi                     0      -      -         3       .8      .6     2      3.8   3.8        6       8.8    3.0        10   2.0      13.4    2.1
Sichuan                     0      -      -         4      2.7    1.6      0       -     -         6       6.6    1.9        10   2.0       8.2    1.3
Chongqing                   0      -      -         0      -       -       0      -      -         2       2.6      .8        2    .4       2.6     .4
Ou zhou                     0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -         0       -      -           0°-           -      -
Yunnan                      0      -      -         0      -       -       0       -     -         0       -      -           0°-
Shnanxi                     0      -      -         0      -       -       0      -      -         0       -      -           0-
Xinji*ng                    0      -      -         0      -       -       0      -      -         2       1-9      .7        2    .4       1.9      .3
Total                 56    69.3  100.0    161    176.9  100.0    74    100.0 100.0         207    293.7  100.0       498 100.0    640.0  100.0
!/  CIS I (Loan 2226/Credit 1313-CHA), CIB II (Loan 2434/Credit 1491-CHA), CIB  IT-(Loan 2669/Credit 1683-CHA) and CIO IV (Loan 2783/Credit
1763-CNA).
ASSIF, April 1999



I-.
.4
.4
.4
.4
I.4.4
I.4
.4
.4
.4
.4
.4
I.4
.4
.4
.4
.4
.4
ii
l
"II ; I
'1
.4              III
.4              III
I   II
.4              :   ii
.4.4            I   II
2
*   .3
I
I  I           ib *
14IHjij I
I I i .116
* xsuuY



- 51 -
Annex 9
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CRDIT PROJECT
Key Monitorina Indicators
Indicators                                                         Target Date
A. General
Loan effectiveness                                             September 1989
B. Utilization of Industrial Credit Component by CIB
Last date for subproject submission                            December 1991
Last date for loan withdrawal                                  December 1994
C. Implementation of Technical Assistance Component
Procurement of computer hardware and software
Commencement                                                 October 1989
Completion                                                   March 1990
Implementation of electronic data processing system
Commencement                                                 October 1989
Completion                                                   September 1991
CIB Staff Training
Commencement a/                                              Ongoing
Completion                                                   December 1994
a/ The five-year training program is being financed partly under the TA
component of CIB IV and is an ongoing activity.
March 1989
AS3IF



If                                                                             CFINA
FIFTH CHINA DIESTdWNT SAN  PROJECT
CIS - Actual an  Planned Lending. Invetmtnt. Fee-Cenertting Operations.  1907-92
(in millions of S for foreign exchang operations and millions of ylua for local currency owns)
- - - Actual - - -    - Preliminary -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Planned - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
------ 1987 ------  ------ 1988 ------  ------ 1989 ------  ------ 1990 ------  ------ 1991 ------  ------ 1992 ------
Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    For-ign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local
Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency
Le no
ra;orl term Ioan                        400.8     498.4      430.0      604.0      300.0      460.0      400.0       600.0    620.0       780.0      676.0   1,014.0
Tern loans under World BSnk sector
projects                                -         -          -          -         90.0      136.0       70.0      106.0      80.0       120.0      100.0      160.0
Loane to loosing comp_ny                  -          -         -         10.0        5.0       12.0        6.0        14.4       7.2       17.3        8.6       20.7
Other loon.                               -         -          -          -          -          -          0.6         5.0      0.6         6.0        0.7        7.2
Working capital loans                     -          -          -         -         60.0        -         76.0        60.0    112.6        66.0      168.8       84.5
Of which:  Free-standing working
capital loan.             -         -          -          -         30.0        -         46.0        30.0     67.6        39.0      101.3       60.7
For joint ventures          -         -          -          -         16.0        -         22.6        16.0     33.8        19.6       60.6       26.4
'qityInvlt  nte
Ein   ti nt  n manufcturing
enterpris                               -          -         -          -          -          -          2.6        12.0      3.3        16.6        4.2       20.3
Loasing operation.                        -          -          -         -          -          -          2.0         -        3.0         -          4.6        -
Revolving Funds                             -          -          -          -        30.0       20.0       24.0        16.0      19.2        12.8      16.4       10.2
GueRrcnt1 no Services                     -          -        10.0        -         15.0         -        22.6          -      33.8         -         60.6        -
Maned loe                                 -          -        33.0       76.0       49.2       98.8       66.8       128.4     72.6       167.0       94.3      217.1
Letters of credit                         -          -        60.0        -        100.0        -        200.0         -      400.0         -        800.0        -
Othere                                    -          -        44.0        -         67.2        -         74.4         -       98.7         -        126.7        -
!/ Contract amonte.
AS UF
F er ary 1909



TME FIFTH CHIM  DIWESENET BMS PROJECT
C1D - Acteal ad PlI sed Resorce Uobili stiea
(In I sillilo for ftreIgn e9change *adV millioe foe leoal currency)
- - - Actual  - - - - - Prl       a        -     -     -      -     -      -     - Planned - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - -
- 1987 -6_-9                                                                   - ------ 1988 -_--__   ------ 1989 ----   ------ 1990 --   ------ 191 ------ ------ 1    ------
Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Locel    Foreign    Local
Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency  Exchange  Currency
borrowings from:
World Bank
Of which:  Ceneral credit loans    300.0          -          -         -        300.0        -         -           -        360.0        -         -          -
Secteral and prowin-
e;l loan                 -          -          -         -         90.0        -        70.0         -         *0.0        -       100.0        -
ADS                                      -          -        100.0        -         -          -       20W.0         -          -          -       260.0        -
Foreign comercial fiancial
institutions                          44.0        -       110.0        -         60.0       -        100.0         -        120.0       -        149.0        -
Foreign governments                      -          -          -          -        16.0        -        20.0         -         40.0        -        55.0        -
Depositors                               -          -          -       200.0       38.0      200.0      40.0       250.0       60.0      250.0     100.0      850.0
Chinse Govr m  t                         -          -          -       200.0        -        303.0         -       10.0        -          -         -          -
bond issuance:
Domestic mariet                           -         -          -          -         -          -          -        100.0        -        100.0       -        100.0
Ne  injection of paid-in capital            -       250."        -          -         -          -          -        250.0        -        250.0        -       250.0
Sublean repaymento (recycling)            76.6       81.6       70.0      130.0     100.0      161.0      180.0      220.0      192.0      361.0     255.0      511.0
Retained earning                            -         -          -         23.6       -         18.0        -         28.9        -         34.7        -        C2.4
Previous year's balance for
approvals                               61.2        2.1      101.2    (164.7)    (46.6)   (126.1)    (69.2)        (59.1)    (49.2)      82.3      146.5       61.4
Term loan approvals                      (400.6)   (496.4)   (430.0)   (614.0)   (396.0)   (597.0)   (476.6)    (724.4)   (607.6)   (923.3)   (765.4) (1,191.9)
Working capital approvals                  -_        __         __         __       (C0.0)       0        (75.0)      (60.0)   ( 12.6)    (66.0)   (166.6)      (64.5)
Others                                     --        __         __         __       (30.0)    (20.0)    (28.5)        (26.0)    (25.5)    (28.4)    (25.1)    (30.5)
Year-end balance for am approvals         101.2    (164.7)    (48.8)   (126.1)    (69.2)    (69.1)    (49.2)          62.3      145.4       61.4       74.1       17.9
AS31F
April 1969
S.     _                                                                                   .        a 



- 54 -
Ane  12
FIT  OHM  DWUSII     am  PSS.ECT
Cie -cn  aAPoml   -            Xi=    JIIMIg I.   -9
(in 11111 110111
- - -   -  A-etu1- - - - - - -    - Pr,l i.s-  - - - - - Projcted - - - - -
1913  1994  1995   1966   1967        1n6       1919    1999    1991       1992
Income
Internet Income from Loan.
Local currency                          1.2   2.3  16.2   46.1   79.7    139.2    196.6   213.3    309.5    391.0
Foreign currency                        0.1   1.3  14.4   6d.4  115.1    234.9    938.9   440.8    696.4    796.6
Subtotal                               1.3   4.1  30.6  112.5  194.8    374.0    56.?.C   64.6    907.9  1.137.6
Interest Income on Deposits
Loeel currency                          6.1   5.8   3.8   12.4   13.1         3.4      10.1     9.1       7.5       8.4
Foreign curreney                        0.4   6.3   3.9   13.4   12.9        10.2      12.3    12.7       9.7      11.2
Subtotal                               6.5  11.1  12.7   26.6   26.9        18.6     22.4    21.3       17.2      19.6
Income on Eauity Investments
Local curreney                          -     -      -      -       -         0.3       1.8     4.2       7.4      11.4
Foroign curroncy                        -     -      -      -       0.4       1.0       1.0     4.3       9.0      16.6
Subtotal                               -     -      -      -       0.4       1.2      2.3      3.6      16.3      26.9
Other income                              -     -      -      0.2    4.0        7.8      16.7    38.4      77.7    144.4
Total Income                           7.8  16.2  43.3  133.6  225.1    401.7    666.3   721.4  1.019.1  1.378.6
Expenseo
Financial Expenses
Co-el currency interest                 0.9   3.6   7.7   19.3   19.6        69.2     99n    138.7    188.9    324.8
Foreign curroncy interost               0.9   4.2   9.3   44.9   94.0    147.7    199.4   273.7    320.8    428.7
Foreign currency fees                                       0.1    0.1        0.1      0.1      0.2       0.2       0.3
Subtotal                               1.8   7.7  17.0   64.2  113.6    207.0    298.7   410.6    609.9    763.8
Administrativ- and other expensoo         0.6   1.6   4.3    7.3   10.6        12.7      16.3    18.3      22.0      26.4
Provisions for doubtful accounts          -     -      2.7    4.1    0.6       12.8      26.6    46.6      63.9      87.3
Deprociation and amortization             -     -      -       -      0.1       0.3       0.6     1.3       2.7       6.6
Total Expenose                         2.3   9.3  24.0   75.7  126.2    232.7    341.1   476.7    598.3    872.7
Prof;t Before Taxes                    6.6   6.9  19.3   62.8   99.9    189.0    226.2   246.7    420.8    606.8
Lose:  Businose  tax                        0.4   0.2   1.6    3.7    6.6         9.3      12.4    12.6      23.4      27.8
Not Profit Before Income Tax           6.1   6.7  17.7   69.1   94.3    169.7    212.8   233.1    397.4    478.0
Leos:  Income tax                           -      -     -       -      -        87.8    117.1   128.2    218.6    262.9
Net Income Aftor Tax                   5.1   6.7  17.7   69.1   94.3        71.9     96.8   104.9    178.8    216.1
AS3IF
April 1989



CHDUA
ThE FIFTH CHONA I WREhENT BAWE PROJECT
CIB - AtlanPoeteFu.FleSae nt.19SS-92
(in oillong of yuan)
rn                                                           - - - - - Acutal -          - - -  Prli-        - - - - - PrOjected - - - - - -
4^                                                          1986        1906       1987       1986      1989       1990      1991      1992
K
Soures of Funds
l         ~~From 09 rations
Hot profits a*ftr tax                      17.7       69.0        94.3      71.9       96.6     104.9      178.8    215.1
Add:  ProvisiOn for doubtful accounts       2.7        4.1         0.6      12.8       28.6      46.6       63.9     87.3
DepreciatiOn and *aOrtization        0.1         0.1        0.4        0.3       0.6        1.3       2.7       6.6
Subtotal                                  20.6       63.2        96.3      85.0      123.0     161.7      246.4    307.9
From Outside Sources
Paid-in capital                             -        600.0       250.0       0.0        0.0     260.0     250.0    250.0
eorreringc
D= C _tie-                                           -           -       200.0     300.0      200.0     100.0    100.0
World Sank                              181.3      470.7       296.8     317.4      339.6     475.4      S6.6    931.8
Otber external loans                      -        166.9       230.4     409.2     241.8      446.4     539.4    062.2
ADS                                       -          -           -        37.2      148.8     159.2     170.4    182.3
Local currency deposits                     2.9       22.6        64.1     200.0      200.0     250.0      250.0    360.0
Foreign currency deposit.                  10.0        3.2         2.5       0.0      141.4     148.8     223.2    372.0
Increose In Other liabilities             145.3      163.9       260.4     132.3      60.1        7.5       5.0      76.0
Subtotal                                 339.6    1,317.3    1,104.0   1,296.1   1,431.7   1,937.3   2,203.7  2,923.3
Loan Collections
Local curr ncy                             38.1       28.5        81.6     130.0      165.0     220.0      361.0    511.0
Forei;n currency                           26.5      141.2       285.7     260.4      372.0     483.6     714.2    948.6
Subtotal                                  63.6      169.7       367.3     390.4     637.0      703.6   1 075.2  1 469 6
Tot l Souree  Of Funds                   4IT       , W-            1, .V    I 771-   2,091.7   2,792.0   3,624.3  4,690:8
Use Of Funds
Losn Dsbursmm_ntn
Lecal currency                            261.0      364.8       460.9     430.0     440.6      720.9     80S.6    934.6
Forein curreqcy                           349.4      897.0       912.5   1,272.2   1,363.3   1,978.9   2,417.7  2,908.2
Subtotal                                 600.4    1,061.8    1,363.4   1,702.2   1,803.9   2.699.8   3,223.3  3,922.7
Ror-t Of Loson
LeeoSl eurr ney                             -          -           -        50.0      75.0      100.0     120.0    130.0
Foreign currercy                            -          -           5.0      66.3      96.4      169.9     230.2    369.8
Subtot I                                   -          -           5.0     116.3      170.4     269.9     360.2    499.8
Others
--x -d assets purchase                       1.1        0.6         1.3       (0.4)      4.6       9.4       18.8     37.6
Equity Invstment                            3.5        1.5         7.2       -          -        28.7      36.8      52.8
Incremental revolving fund                  -          -           -         -       131.6      106.3      84.2      67.4
Net cange In account. psyabl./
recoeivable                              -          32.5       (11.0)   (127.3)    (13.4)    (14.7)    (16.1)   (17.8)
Increse  In other assets                 198.8       112.0       (-3.3)     96.1     (26.0)    (60.0)       5.0       6.0
Subtotal                                 203.4      146.6        (6.3)    (31 S)     97.3       78.7     130.7    146.0
TotaT uss of funds                      1-- I,                   3      I         207Ti   3,0404   3             4,SS7.6
S390.2)     341.8       203.6     (16.4)      19.6    (266.8)   (179.9)   123.3
CIMh *nd Mnls  8l41,161tileftw                492.3 !/   9W.1 I/   711!        733.3     762.9      497.1     317.2    440.6
pj  Including emngW  funds.
ASSIF, April 1989



CHIM
x                                                                 FIFTH CHDMA D4ESTINT SANK PROJECT
Cis - Actual aId N rW eV  d  alance Sheets, 196l-92
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(n  usImn 1 1 yUen)
- - - - - - - Actual - - - - - - - - -        - Preli -    - - - - - - - Projected - - - - -  -
1983    1984     1986       1966      1967        1988      1989      1990       1991        1992
Assets
Current Assets
Cash ane  bank depesit                                610.3   730.7    350.6       779.3     748.7       733.3     752.9     497.1      317.2      440.5
Current maturities of long-tere loans
Local currency                                        6.8    26.0      47.7      28.5       81.6      130.0      165.0     220.0      361.0      611.0
Foreign currency                                      -        5.6     63.0     141.2      285.7      260.4      372.0     483.6      714.2    1,048.6
Subtotal                                               6.6    31.6    110.7       169.7     367.3      390.4      537.0     703.6   1,075 2    1 .59.6
Accounts receivable                                     2.1      3.4     82.9      jTI       21         213.3      259.7     Tili       36.        428.8
Working capital Ions                                   -        -        -          -         -           -       186.0     616.0      998.6    1,710.8
Total Current Aessts                                 619.2   762.7    644.1   1,016.7   1.35.3    1,337.    1,736.   2,026.    2,767.           4,139.7
n-Tr- Assets
L:oo        Lecal currency                               28.8    99.0    318.3      643.3   1,100.3    1,400.3   1,676.9   2,126.8   2,606.4    2,846.4
Foreign currency                                9.3    60.6    389.2   1.071.8   1,694.1    2,706.9   3,611.2   4,727.6   6,012.5    7,424.3
1     Loes:  Provisioens for bed and doubtful loans            -       -        (2.7)     (6.6)      (3.7)     (16.4)    (43.0)    (68.4)   (152.3)    (239.6)
.D            Current portion of term loans                    (6.8)  (31.6)  (110.7)   (169.7)   (361.3)    t390.4)   (637.0)   (703.6) (1,07S.2)  (1,669.6)
un      Net LongrT rm L n Portfolio                           31.3   127.9    694.0   1,638.6   2,423.4    3,699 4   4,607.1   6 062 3   7 291 3    8 670 6
Equity inveetndt                                        -        3.9      F         6.8       14.0       14.0       14.0      42ri7      01:6 1r4
Revolving fund                                          -        -        -          -         -           -       131.6     236.9      321.1       388.6
Net fixed oo"ts                                         -        0.4      1.4        2.1       3.7         3.0       7.0       16.0      31.1        63.1
Other assets                                            -        -        -          7.2       3.9      100.0       76.0      26.0       30.0        36.0
Total Lonc-Tore Aee to                                31.3   132.2    600.7   1 564.7   2,444.9    3 816 2   4,836.0   6 361.9   7 766 0    9 091 4
Tot l Asoe                t       660.6   99.9  1,144.8   2                                  1 1670.3   8238                                   1
____________                   s~~~~~~~~~~U:X   .~~~~. g   ~ ~ ~   ~   3 ,0 30.1         __6__2 __I___
Liilities ndTEVult
Current Lieilties
Accounts pyaebl-                                        0.1      -       81.1      46.6      438.7      610.2      670.0     636.8      708.1       787.7
Current portion *f long-ter- debt                       -        0.1      -         -          6.0      116.3      195.4     319.9      466.2       707.3
Total deposits                                          -        -        -         -         68.6      266.6      608.0   1,006.6   1,480.0    2,202.0
Total Current lsbilitise                               0.1      0.1     81.1      46.6      610.2      893.1   1,373.4   1,962.5   2,643.3    3,697.0
LonsT r D*bt
Ds etTe borroeIng                                     140.0   423.6    420.0      420.0      420.0      670.0      796.0     696.0      876.0       846.0
World Bank                                              6.2    60.4    215.1      742.4   1,062.1    1,345.6   1,707.3   2,013.7   2,619.1    3,216.2
ADN                                                     -        -        -         -          -         36.1      164.7     316.7      464.6      692.0
Other external borrowings                               _        _        _       168.9      386.9      764.9    689.3   1,362.0   1,864.0    2,436.9
Lose:  Current portion                                  -        -        -         -         (6.0)    (116.3)   (196.4)   (319.9)   (466.2)    (707.3)
Totol Lone-Term Debt                                 146.2   483.9    636.1   1,319 3   1 864 0    2,600 2   3 380.9   4,267 6  652467 4    ,381.8
Otbhrs                                                    -        -        -       199.8    Li1Ut        227.4   - 287.5      29UU:      300.0       37U"
Total Liabilities                                    146.3   484.0    716.2   1,666.7   2,469.4    3,720.7   6,041.8   6,526.0   8,200.7   10,463.8
Fold-in capital                                       400.0   400.0    400.0      910.1   1,160.0    1,160.0   1,150.0   1,400.0   1,660.0    1,900.0
Retained earnings                                       6.2    10.9      28.6      96.6      210.e      282.7      378.6     463.4      662.2      877.3
Tots l Enuitw406.2   410.9    426.6   1 006 7   1 360 8    1 432 7   1 628 5   1 883 4   2 312 2    2 777 3
Tetal Viitiee and Equity                                                                                                            10!f12     13239 1 144.8  2S71.4 3, 8301  5031   612.9  13   231.1
AS3IF
April 1969



IA
r~4
x
*                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
FIFTH CHINA INVESTIMET MISC PROJECT
CID - Actual and Projected Key Financial Ratios
- - - - - - - Actual - - - - - -  - Pr-l im -  - - - - Projcctod - - -
1983   1984   1985   1988   1987    1988      1989   1990   1991   1992
Current ratio (times)                                    -      -    6.7   21.8    2.7      1.5      1.3    1.1    1.1    1.1
Long-tero debt/equity ratio                          0.4:1  1.2:1  1.6:1  1.3:1  1.4:1   1.9:1    2.3:1  2.5:1  2.6:1  2.6:1
Major I/S itome  (as X of average total assets):
Cross earnings                                       1.4    2.0    4.0    7.6    7.0      8.9      9.7    9.4   10.8  11.6
Financial *xpenses                                   0.3    1.0    1.6    3.5    3.6     4.6       6.1    5.6    6.4    6.3
Genral sa  adinistrative expenses                    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.4    0.3      0.3      0.3    0.2    0.2    0.2
Provisions                                             -      -    0.3    0.2    0.2      0.3      0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7
Profit before tax                                    1.0    0.8    1.8    3.4    3.1      3.7      3.8    3.1    4.4    4.3
Not profit                                           0.9    0.7    1.7    3.2    2.9      1.6      1.6    1.3    1.9    1.8
Incme from loan portfolio as X of average term
loan portfolio pj                                   3.3    4.1    7.1    9.3    8.6    10.8       9.9   10.5   10.4   11.2
Financial expense I of average term debt a/            1.2    2.4    3.0    6.6    7.1     8.8       8.0    8.0    8.0    8.2
Profit after tax as I of average equity                1.3    1.4    4.2    8.2    8.0      6.2      e.6    6.2    8.6    8.6
Provision as # of year-end outstanding loans b/          -      -    0.4    0.4    0.1      0.3      0.8    1.2    1.6    2.0
Debt service covereag  ratio (tims)                      -      -    6.9    4.6    4.9      2.1      1.9    1.8    1.9    1.8
/ Include  deposits and working capital loans for 1989-92.
l/ Include working capital loans from 1989-92.
AS3IF
April I 19



- 58 -
Annex 16
Cai
FIFTH IWSTURIAL CRIDI? PROJECT
Proiected Disburs eme nt Schedule
(a million)
Standard
Year     Period          Amount      Cumulative       Profile (Z)
FY90     July-December        15.0 a/       15.0 a/        1
January-June        --            15.0           4
FY91     July-December        39.0          54.0          18
January-June        42.0          96.0          32
FY92     July-December        54.0         150.0          50
January-Jtne        42.0         192.0          64
FY93     July-December        27.0         219.0          73
January-June        33.0         252.0          84
FY94     July-December        18.0         270.0          90
January-June        15.0         285.0          95
FY95     July-December        15.0         300.0         100
a/ This amount is higher than the standard profile and represents
the amount to be transferred to the Special Account.
AS3IF
March, 1989



- 59 -
Annex 17
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
Maay relevant documents are available in the project file for
CIB I, II, III, and IV projects. The additional documents are as
follows:
A - 1  China - Finance and Investment, Asia Regional Office, 1orld
Bank, June 1987
A - 2 China's Industrial Reforms, World Bank Research Publication,
June 1987
A - 3 China - External Trade and Capital, Reform Issues and Options,
Asia Regional Office, World Bank, October 1987
B - 1 Consultant's Report on the Future Role of CIB
B - 2 Consultant's Report on Training Needs of CIB
B - 3 Consultant's Report on Computer Development Plan of CIB
D - 1 Detailed Working Papers for CIB V Project
AS3IF
April 1989



CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Orgniation Chart (As of Sept. 30,18)
SOANO OF D4AETMU
dOARD W OF 4ANAOIDECTORS
_W__ "= . - . . ; - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToS Tian-Shen
PRESIDENT
_ ~ ~~~ _                                     I 
ltt_~~~~~~~~~ESAO OIIC                                   DEPT.          RESDET.No            AAGMN
J~~~~~~~~D~W                                                     W#X
¢*   *   b11   OUCATION  DEPT.        Cll PIM NCCOUNTN     DEP7T.            WUCN    FICEh       Chs. Y*Ih           DET.N o.  ZDeput  ChlOE
°i                                                                                                 STn U An. D1u EChS lOE                   AWs u
"   1   --5   -13      1  _22                    }        t4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ho No-La               TmG;rw     t.
El OH  OOOMNATM       INAWINU IWAMTIATM A                       PFOJCT LN         PRGJCT LN           CRE
IDUCoATMOEPT.  a  ACCOUNTM DEPT.  RESEARCHOFF"         DEPT. "D. I       DEPT. No, 2      MANAGEIurAM4S4A T



CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Organization Chart (cont'd)
(As of Sept. 30,1988)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE
BEIJING            JIANGSU                                BRNHUEION
SHANGHAI            TIANJIN             BRANCH             BRANCH               HEBEI             BrANCH              FJI                LPAONIH
BRANCH             BRANCH                                 Preuident:          BRANCH             PreNCidentd
Pt                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wang KWB SIw"  BRACH
Preel~'gnt.  President:Uu You -Kun                                                    ViePedn:
Vice President.  Vice Pmsldent  Vkim President:hw   nU              vims Presidanent:M                     Vice Proweudi:      Vime President
VlmPrekiet:  iomProiclnt:    Uu Jong-Zhsaig                           Xu Gr-F           HUuI Shoude       Che 4uogDhei         mm SM11-,1,111
Su Thon          Fan BLig~-H.n o                         Ing  Xuy                                 Lk, 'rengfl K
48"um              51                  29 L 5l 1     117                      73                 so                  21                 12
SHANDONG             ANHUI              ZHEJIANG            BRONJANCH                             GUANGXI             SRACHUA            ANOLIAE
BRANCH                       BRANCH              BRANCH                     GUANGDONG            BRANCH               lwi  BRANCH MNIU
Preeklent          PdPdklento                                                 BRANCH             Pre,n               PIit I  :                      L.C
Chent 0                                                                        ggj4CHi Dwnnt44umk:  u ia-Zw  Prm*W  JPrekm             im Sh La
Vice presIdenth u I-Mm             Wang Ji-Xi        Vice Presidlent:      w   ihoV  PJisidwQn-Ka               Vime PreIdeN    1    s 51 Lid
Vii Pr~            Vime Proskr..4t.    Viom Prekldeni:    Li Shm'ft           PagOsVm  rsdn.                        0W Feng-Kico  I*vimePeie
Xu u&-olng       Jiang Zid-Sheng       Fu JI-Car         Du Hong-Yang  ILa ain                                      WI Hog       I     U    IgZn-Xiu
..~ ~ ~~_- .-- ._ ___                                                                                                                           __~
3D                 23                  24                 20                  43                 31         3i-1                         14     _
JILIN             HUNAN               HENAN              SHANXI             HAINAN              HASIN             SHENYANG
SHANXI             BRANCH             BRANCH              BRANCH             BRANCH              BRNC                 PAHR ANCH
SHANXI   BRANCH             ~~~~~~~~Preskdent.  Prekident:         Preslden:           President:          p *M"              President.
BRANCH            XBnShen             Du Shbialn                           LCin Y-San             6hu-Y oanShun                       H       t 
Xresident Sb n             Vki Presiet:                 Vbn President       Vice Presldwt:     VIM Pbookt.         vkce Priden        Vie Prlsid |t
CbV President       Del Tian-Min   |        Bing-Zhwng      UGuo_                 C                   hU
* Shiflifli  ~Chon Ztw-Guo      Ch~en Zh-oUn       L  l-ZeguUCtg-Wu ChwutgY&aUflSU
17                 20         |        29                 10                  14                 14                  P                  24
DAUN             QINGDAO                                 XIAMEN                                                   CHUNGOIt4
BRANCH             BRANCH              WUHAN              BRANCH            GUANGZHOU |         SHENZHEN              RIVNCH     |
Prekdnte I    I    President **        BRANCH             Predent-            BRANCH             BRANCH              Plsidet
|in Hong-Shun       Sun Fu-Qlng          Presdnt    Zbhuo Ki-Mng                PretdevIt:         Puemidu|            He YbIde
Vice Preuidwrt     VIce Preele         ' TYen-Xicng Yu | Vice Presidn.        He Guo-Bang          Ia SMu            Vice PesdeI
Wu Chteng- You       Ms Lu4iI                             Shun 0mg-Yuan                                              tiuxlfs       I
F--12                      14           -                         9 -14                                  6                   to
Put-time, onr ent PCOC Vim Presidet
krA434S



IBID 21327
CHINA                           ( 2 
FIFTH  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                    U.S.S.R.
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK V                      /
_.-_   Province Counduiz                >          g           fAONGJ/AA; G
-.  intenational otunevUo                                           f; 2\  wn 
^   _  r A Ae5t8n N~~~Aj
MONGOLIA                    J                                                           SFA
-r---                             _<          O             E >U  MAONUA   )EPUBLIC
KOREA !
..  --Ho hot " A                           APoMOY
A4/~A'    %pjg         .~S*oul
J  {N.,, .fSY'                -1 A                                            REP.
A  Shhjiazhuing                            OF
rjJ   (triyuarn                                             t' *hANOONG  rOREA
/              / G~          A * s   %  t    >  '>   +   +  j--A  JAPAN
henqxhou~
Axe i anX<'    Az
;9              e~fAAXIn       HE/VA/V             IAy/NG5M
AOI~nn           O&MA
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                             A /V#f    2v XHU/  ,A
'/CH LI A N                          At                    mangshou       LAST CH:t.;
30-               *AChlengdu             I_          A                 ZHF,A NV                SE"4
Chongqing           A.              Nenchemn )-
Chengeha    JIANOXI//  
,J 'J'CU/ZHOLU             H LNAN                   Fuzhou
0                                 (duiyano  fUJ/A N
YUNNVA                                6  - OUANVONG
VUANGX/       /Gu.shou
NJ     n                       kg , '   *^
Nam _ J,      r         4Z.-J HOOKOW. U K.                                  20
VIET NAM              ,MACAOPOIT.
BURMIA~J 
20      J     LAO6,,->
.-%d -NPEOPLE'SSOTCHN
'(DEM. REPSOUTH NAHIS A 
THAILAND        AREPEN                d                       SEA ~              '
,00.                                                                                                 19,
JANUARY I 0S0



