Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15251
IMPLFEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CH I NA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3075-CNA)
DECEMBER 26, 1995
Erivironmenit and Mnnicipal Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mal not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
C'ulTelncy tJnit = Yuani (Y)
1989              SI  Y 3.76
199(              51  Y 4.78
1991              $1  Y 5.36
1991              $I = Y 5.42
1993              $1 = Y 5.73
1994              $1 =Y 8.50
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Januarv I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASUJRES
Metric Systenm
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD%B  - Asian Development Bank
C(IB   - China Investimienit Bank
FIRR   - Economic Rate of Return
FRR   - Finanicial Rate of Retum
GOt' - CGovernmiienit of Chinia
MOF  - MNinistriY of Finanice
l'BC'  - People's Bank of C'hina (Central Bank)
I'CBC - People's Constructioni Bank of China
'I'VEs - Townshilp and Village Enterprises
SAR   - Staff Appraisal Repor-t



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................iii
EVALUATION SIJMMARY ..........................................................                                                    iv
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description                               ..........................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................                                 4
D. Project Sustainability ..........................................................7
E. Bank Performance ..........................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ..........................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................8
H. Future Operations ...........................................................9
I. Lessons Learned ..........................................................9
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................................................                                            10
Table  1:  Summary Assessments ..........................................................                             10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................................                          11
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................................                                 12
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............. 12
Table 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation ............................................... 13
Table 6: Key Jndicators for Project Operations ..................................................... 13
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................................................                       13
Table 8: Project Costs/Financing  Sources .........................................................    13
Table 9: Economic and Financial Costs and Benefits ........................................... 14
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................                        14
Table  1 1: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................                      15
Table  12: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................                        15
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................................. 17
ANNEX B: LIST OF SUBPROJECTS/SUBLOANS-AMOUNTS
DISBURSED ...........................................                                                       24
ANNEX C: CIB-COMPARATIVE (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING
DECEMBER 31, 1989-94 ......................................................                                 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.                                      l






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3075-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Industrial
Credit Project in China, for which a loan in the amount of $300 million equivalent (Loan
3075-CHA) was approved on May 30, 1989 and made effective on October 31, 1989.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1994 as scheduled. Final and full
disbursement took place on April 20, 1995.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Carlo A. Punsalan, Task Manager, EA2EM and
reviewed by Ms. Katherine Sierra, Chief, EA2EM and Mr. Yo Kimura, Project Adviser,
EA2DR. The implementing agency also evaluated the project, and their findings are
included.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and
completion missions in October 1994 and March 1995, respectively. The report is based
on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
providing data and inforrmation, its own evaluation of the project's execution, and
comments on the draft ICR.






- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3075-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   In 1981, the China Investment Bank (CIB) was established through a special
charter approved by the State Council and was one of the first new institutions in what
was expected to be an increasingly competitive and efficient financial system in China.
At the time the Fifth Industrial Credit Project (CIB V) was approved in 1989, the Bank
had already provided $645.6 million in four credit lines to CIB. These four industrial
credit projects were to basically assist in the institutional development of CIB and to
augment its foreign currency resources for financing the restructuring and technical
upgrading of light industrial enterprises. Loan 3075-CHA (the subject of this ICR) was
for $300 million, and it aimed to continue to support the development of CIB into an
autonomous, efficient, viable and sound financial intermediary in industrial finance.
Because of the expertise it has acquired in project financing and appraisal, CIB also
became an active participant (as financial intermediary or financial agent) in relending
Bank Group funds in several other projects.  These projects involve Bank funds
amounting to $2,070 million; loans in which CIB absorbs the full credit risks amount to
about $1,215 million or 60 percent, the balance is on a financial agency basis, i.e., no
credit risk to CIB.
Project Objectives
2.    The project was to: (a) continue institutional strengthening of CIB in both its
traditional and new areas of activity and thus enable it to carry out its operations
efficiently and prepare itself effectively to meet the changing needs of its clients and
operate in the emerging competitive environment; (b) expand and diversify CIB's
resource base; and (c) provide funds for investment in the modernization and
restructuring of light industry and remove the sector's operational bottlenecks.  In
particular, the project was expected to enhance the role and capacity of CIB so that it
would be more responsive to the rapidly changing financial sector environment in China.
3.    The project had two components: (a) a line of credit ($299 million) for the
financing of small- and medium-size restructuring projects in light industry with the



- v -
following subcomponents: (i) onlending for the import of modem equipment and
technology ($244 million); (ii) working capital financing ($50 million); and (iii) equity
investments, including equipment leasing ($5 million); and (b) technical assistance ($1.0
million) to support a training program for CIB's staff in existing and new financial
products and services and import of computer hardware and software for CIB's proposed
electronic data processing system and related training. Both the physical and institutional
objectives of the project were substantially achieved.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project implementation went as planned, taking five years for disbursement. There
were 200 subloans with an average subloan of $1.2 million (net of four subloans for
working capital and equity/ leasing investments), which is in line with the average for the
four previous credit lines to CIB but lower than the average estimated at appraisal of $1.5
million. The average maturity of the subloans was about five years, which is less than the
seven-year average expected during project appraisal. There were 41 subloans (20 percent)
"above the free limit" (i.e., subject to prior Bank review and approval) accounting for $119
million or 48 percent of the total subloans. During appraisal, 21 percent of subloans by
number and 50 percent by amount were estimated to be above the free limit and a total of
200 subloans was projected. Subloans to nonstate enterprises comprised 26 percent of the
total, which is well above the allocation of at least 10 percent agreed during appraisal;
sectoral distribution was more even than previous loans to CIB with textiles accounting for
only 19 percent (compared to 27 percent under CIB IV); the geographic distribution was
also evenly spread among its branches (below 10 percent each) except for the Shandong
branch (16 percent) and Guangdong branch (14 percent). Subloans for working capital
numbered 46, resulting in an average subloan of about $1.1 million.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
5.    Under the project, the Bank played a particularly significant role in initiating
diversification of CIB's products and resources. For the first time, the Bank's credit line
could be utilized for working capital loans, equity investments, and leasing operations.
These have helped CIB to promote new financial products, with working capital loans
now mainstreamed in its operations. CIB was able also to diversify its resources both in
foreign currency but mainly in domestic currency in the form of deposits. Through the
review of subprojects, the Bank assisted CIB in improving its appraisal standards,
particularly in marketing and financial aspects. The Bank also provided significant inputs
in the development of CIB's manual for working capital financing and equity
investments. Bank supervision missions contributed to CIB's focusing on its supervision
and collection efforts, which led to the adoption of multiyear collection targets. In 1994,
the Bank was instrumental in helping to maintain CIB as a separate financial institution
against a government desire to dissolve CIB by absorbing it into the People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC). The Bank's approach was to preserve the
institutional development of CIB that was achieved after prolonged efforts. In July 1994,
the People's Bank of China (PBC) approved CIB's new charter as a commercial bank



- vi -
under PBC supervision and CIB became a fully-owned and separate subsidiary of PCBC.
Overall, the Bank was quite supportive and contributed to some major developments in
CIB's operations under the project.
6.    CIB implemented the project satisfactorily and fully utilized the loan proceeds by
the original closing date, which is an improvement since the closing dates of the previous
four Bank loans had to be extended by one year.  However, during project
implementation, CIB's operations suffered from deteriorating loan collections and rising
arrears, resulting in a decline in profitability. Lagging repayment of CIB's loans was
largely due to onlending terms that required borrowers to assume the foreign exchange
risk of borrowing hard currency. The devaluation of the renminbi from an average
Y 3.76 to the dollar in 1989 to Y 8.50 in 1994 meant that any borrower not involved in
export industries and therefore not earning foreign exchange was faced with about a
doubling of the loan repayment burden in local currency terms. These problems were
compounded by uncertainties created during the proposed dissolution of CIB. Now, the
major uncertainties on CIB's future role in 1994 have been cleared. CIB has a new
charter providing more independence and has initiated "transformation" measures for
improved and more efficient operations, including a focus on loan repayments. Its
success and sustainability hinge to a large part on its ability to diversify its products and
services and at the same time continue to improve repayment levels on its existing
portfolio.  With its new mandate, institutional independence, and full support of
PCBC/PBC, CIB's new management team should be in a stronger position to implement
needed changes in CIB, which should lead to improved and sustainable operations in the
future. Project sustainability, which had been a concern during supervision, is now rated
as likely given the government's clarification of CIB's role.
7.    The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project substantially met its
major objectives, both with respect to lending-204 light industrial enterprises were
helped to upgrade their technology and modernize manufacturing facilities and 46
enterprises received short-term working capital-and institutional development-CIB has
in place a computer center partly financed under the loan and has trained its staff in new
activities. CIB was successful in mobilizing additional resources, especially deposits,
which grew by about 50 percent per year (nominal) since 1990. The development results
are expected to be realized and sustained albeit a few of the assisted enterprises are
currently facing difficulties due mainly to evolving reforms towards a market economy.
Furthermore, with its new mandate and institutional setup, CIB is now better poised to
become an autonomous financial institution that would provide meaningful and
competitive financial services.
8.    In future, CIB is expected to make further progress toward becoming a
commercial bank under the direction of its Board of Directors and PCBC, and under the
supervision of PBC. It continues to restructure its organization and operations, as
appropriate for a market-based commercial bank.  In 1995, CIB consolidated its
operations and initiated actions on its "transformation" toward its new goals and
objectives.



- vii -
9.    The following lessons were learned from the project:
(a)   Despite some notable progress, CIB continues to experience problems
rooted in issues besetting the macroeconomy and the overall financial
sector. Recognition of this, coupled with the opportunities presented by
China's recently more receptive environment for banking system reform
signaled by passage of a Banking Law and a Central Bank Law, led to a
shift in Bank strategy. Reform of the banking system's overall policy and
regulatory environment is now central to our financial sector strategy.
While direct assistance to some key players in China's banking system
continues, policy and institutional change at both the banking sector and
individual bank levels dominates our attention.
(b)   CIB's reluctance to use foreign experts limited the degree of institutional
change realized under the project. In future operations, including the
Financial Sector Development Project now being prepared, we will take a
different approach to training. A "twinning" arrangement between a local
bank and a respected international commercial bank has been found to be a
more acceptable means of transferring commercial banking skills to banks
in command economies. When foreign technical experts must be used, it
is crucial to gain the borrower's total understanding and acceptance of
such assistance prior to project implementation.



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3075-CHA)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Background. In 1981, the China Investment Bank (CIB) was established through
a special charter approved by the State Council and was one of the first new institutions
in what was expected to be an increasingly competitive and efficient financial system in
China. At the time the Fifth Industrial Credit Project (CIB V) was approved in 1989, the
Bank had already provided $645.6 million in four credit lines to CIB. These four
industrial credit projects' were to assist in the institutional development of CIB and to
augment its foreign currency resources for financing the restructuring and technical
upgrading of light industrial enterprises. Loan 3075-CHA (the subject of this ICR) was
for $300 million, and aimed to continue to support the development of CIB into an
autonomous, efficient, viable and sound financial intermediary in industrial finance.
Because of the expertise it has acquired in project financing and appraisal, CIB also
became an active participant (as financial intermediary or financial agent) in relending
Bank funds in several provincial and sector projects, e.g., two projects in Tianjin in 1989
and 1993, Shanghai Industrial Development Project in 1991, Rural Industrial Technology
Project (SPARK) in 1990, Beijing Environment Project in 1992, Medium Cities Project
in 1992, Southern Jiangsu Environment Project in 1993 and more recently in three Ozone
Depleting Substances Projects.  These projects involve Bank Group and Global
Environment Facility resources amounting to $2,070 million; loans in which CIB absorbs
the full credit risks amount to about $1,215 million or 60 percent; the balance is on a
financial agency basis, i.e., no credit risk to CIB.
2.    Project Objectives. The project was to: (a) continue institutional strengthening
of CIB in both its traditional and new areas of activity and thus enable it to carry out its
operations efficiently and prepare itself effectively to meet the changing needs of its
clients and operate in the emerging competitive environment; (b) expand and diversify
Project Performance Audit Report, China-China Investment Bank (Loans 2226, 2434, 2659-CHA and
Credits 1313, 1491, 1663-CHA), Report No. 9945 dated October 3, 1991; PCR on the Fourth Industrial
Credit Project (CIB IV) dated May 25, 1994.



- 2 -
CIB's resource base; and (c) provide funds for investment in the modernization and
restructuring of light industry and removing the sector's operational bottlenecks. In
particular, the project was expected to enhance the role and capacity of CIB so that it
could be more responsive to the rapidly changing financial sector environment in China.
3.    Project Description. The project had two components:
(a)    a line of credit ($299 million) for the financing of small- and medium-size
restructuring projects in light industry with the following subcomponents:
(i)    onlending for the import of modem equipment and technology
($244 million);
(ii)    working capital financing ($50 million); and
(iii)    equity investments, including equipment leasing ($5 million).
(b)   technical assistance ($1.0 million) to support the implementation of a
training program for CIB's staff in existing and new financial products and
services, and import of computer hardware and software for CIB's
proposed electronic data processing system and related training.
4.    The People's Republic of China was the borrower of the Bank Loan.  The
proceeds were relent to CIB for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years, with CIB
allowed to roll over the funds. CIB's subloans were nornally not to extend beyond 7
years, and in no case more than 12 years. CIB repaid the Government at the Bank's
variable interest rate; the subborrowers paid CIB a variable rate equal to the Bank rate
plus a minimum spread of 1.5 percent and carried the exchange risk between the Bank's
currency pool and the yuan.
5.    Eligibility Criteria of Subloans. All subprojects financed out of the Bank Loan
were to meet the following eligibility criteria: (a) subprojects to be in' the manufacturing
sector and have minimum financial and economic rates of return of 12 percent;
(b) subprojects in basic and heavy industries normally not to be eligible; (c) aggregate
subloans to a single enterprise not to exceed $20 million equivalent; (d) borrowing
enterprises/companies to have satisfactory projected financial operations and position.
Under the project, CIB's free-limits2 were: $4.0 million for its branches in Shanghai,
Tianjin, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Hebei, $2.0 million for Hubei, Fujian, Liaoning, Anhui,
Shandong, Heilongjiang, Beijing, Hunan, Jilin, Guangdong, Shenyang, Dalian, Qingdao,
and Guangzhou, and $1.0 million for the other 12 branches.
2 Free limit is an amount of subloan for which prior Bank approval is not required.



- 3 -
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    Physical Objectives. The objectives of the project were substantially achieved.
CIB utilized the industrial credit component fully and for the first time within the original
closing date; this component financed modem equipment for 204 enterprises in the light
industry sector.  CIB continued the use of its appraisal manual designed with the
assistance of the Bank; this manual is widely used among many major financial
institutions in China and has become a useful standard on how to appraise an industrial
project. Under the project, CIB began to computerize some of its operations, starting
with loan accounting and financial accounts. The project also provided continuing
training assistance to CIB staff, particularly in new areas of operations such as lease
financing, equity investments, and working capital loans. About 26 percent of the credit
component was onlent to nonstate enterprises (joint ventures, cooperatives, and township
and village enterprises-TVEs), which exceeded the agreed minimum of 10 percent and
was a positive development. As agreed, CIB also continued to diversify its resource base,
raising foreign currency resources close to $1.0 billion (46 percent from deposits and
54 percent from other sources including bilateral and syndicated loans, and bonds) this is
more than was projected. More importantly, CIB has raised substantial domestic funds
through deposits and loans, which accounted for about 70 percent of total resources in
1994 (compared to 56 percent in 1988). CIB also diversified its products and services
and, under the project, it initiated lease financing, equity investments and working capital
loans. The working capital loan component (para. 14), although small in amount,
catalyzed the development of such loans, which are now a mainstream financial product
and constitutes a major portion of CIB's portfolio.
7.    Institutional Objectives.  The project provided additional technical assistance
funds to continue CIB's development into an efficient and effective organization able to
compete in a changing environment. In July 1994, the People's Bank of China (PBC)
approved CIB's new charter which essentially confirmed that CIB would be a PBC-
approved and supervised institution. Furthermore, its charter permitted CIB to be organized
as a "limited liability" company, clearly defined CIB as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC), and made CIB directly responsible for its
operations and branches which heretofore were responsible more to PCBC's branches rather
than CIB's head office. CIB's new charter ensured that CIB would remain an independent
financial institution, which in 1994 was threatened by a proposed "amalgamation" into
PCBC. At present, CIB has sufficient trained staff and a new management structure intent
on making CIB an efficient commercial bank. However, continuing technical assistance
may be required to accelerate and ensure this transformation. One crucial factor that affects
CIB's operations and sustainability is the quality of its portfolio (para. 18). It would need to
improve its debt service capacity through: (a) intensive collection efforts on its existing
portfolio; (b) enhanced profitability from cost reduction measures and more diversified
products and services, and (c) continuous strengthening of its capital base.



- 4 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8.    Loan Effectiveness and Implementation Schedule. The project was approved by
the Bank on May 30, 1989; the Loan and Project Agreements were signed on July 21, 1989
and became effective on October 31, 1989. The loan was closed as scheduled on December
31, 1994 ; this was in contrast to the previous four loans that were all extended by a year.
(Annex B contains the amounts disbursed for individual subprojects as of May 31, 1995.)
9.    Subloans and Investments. As indicated above, implementation of the project was
over five years as scheduled. There were 200 subloans with an average subloan of $1.2
million (net of subloans for working capital and equity investments), which is in line with
the average for the four previous credit lines to CIB but lower than the average estimated at
appraisal of $1.5 million. The average maturity of the subloans was about five years, which
is less than the seven-year average expected during project appraisal. There were 41
subloans (20 percent in number) "above the free limit" (i.e., subject to prior Bank review
and approval) accounting for $119 million or 48 percent of the total subloans. During
appraisal, 21 percent by number and 50 percent by amount were estimated to be above the
free limit and a total of 200 subprojects was projected. Subloans to nonstate enterprises
(joint ventures, town/village enterprises, and cooperatives) comprised 26 percent of the
total, which is well above the allocation of at least 10 percent agreed during appraisal;
sectoral distribution was more even than previous loans to CIB, with textiles accounting
only for 19 percent (compared to 27 percent under CIB IV). The geographic distribution
was also evenly spread, with each branch having less than 10 percent of the total except for
Shandong branch (16 percent) and Guangdong branch (14 percent)-the main branches of
Liaoning, Jiangsu, Hubei accounted for relatively high shares of 9 percent, 7 percent, and
6 percent, respectively. Subloans for working capital numbered 46, resulting in an average
subloan of about $1.1 million (para. 14).
10.   Subproject Implementation.  Implementation of subprojects was basically
satisfactory.  As of December 31, 1994, there were 165 (84percent) subprojects in
operation and 32 (16 percent) were still under construction. Out of the total subprojects in
operation, 84 (50 percent) were completed on schedule, 28 (17 percent) were delayed for up
to six months, 17 (10 percent) were delayed for 6 to 12 months, and 5 (3 percent) were
delayed for one to two years. By comparison, the on-time completion of subprojects was
72 percent for CIB II, 42 percent for CIB III, and 63 percent for CIB IV. Some of the
common and major causes of delays included: shortage of and delay in the provision of
counterpart funds owing mainly to increased local currency costs, change in project design
to implement the project within the budget, which proved to be lower than actual costs
during procurement, delayed delivery of equipment and installation difficulties.
11.   Of the 165 completed subprojects, 110 subprojects (67 percent) were operating at
over 70 percent of capacity, 19 subprojects (12 percent) at 50 percent-70 percent of
capacity and 36 subprojects (21 percent) at below 50 percent of capacity. This experience
is slightly better than the subprojects under CIB IV. However, the reasons for the low
capacity utilization remained the same and included: (a) inadequate working capital due to



- 5 -
higher prices of inputs; (b) operational difficulties with new and imported equipment; and
(c) low and declining domestic market demand for certain products. Based on the above
figures, 55 subprojects (those operating at 70 percent of capacity and below) could be
incurring losses or at best breaking even. This performance is also reflected in the overall
deterioration of CIB's arrears situation (para. 18) and repayment experience of the
subprojects under CIB V (para. 12).
12.   Repayment Experience. The following table summarizes the collection and
arrears situation of 168 subprojects under CIB V as of December 31, 1994. Repayment
experience under the project indicates a reasonably high overall collection ratio of
83 percent although the "on-time" collection is at 72 percent. These ratios were slightly
lower than those for CIB IV but are higher than the average experience of CIB's total
portfolio of long-term loans. However, arrears under the project amounted to Y 48 million
equivalent or 6.8 percent of the total arrears at the end of 1994; 33 companies or about
3 percent of the total number of companies in CIB's long-term portfolio were in arrears.
COLLECTION AND ARREARS POSITION: SUBPROJECTS UNDER LOAN 3075-CHA
(AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1994)
Number of    Principal and Interest (Y million)
Subprojects  Foreign Currency   Local Currency
1. Cumulative Amount Due          168           250.76            33.37
2. Cumulative Amount Paid          135           207.88           27.86
3. Amount of Arrears               33             42.88            5.51
4. Amount Paid on Time             127           179.04           24.22
Ratios (percent):
2/1                              80.4          82.9             83.5
3/1                              19.6          17.1             16.5
4/1                              75.6          71.4             72.6
Note: 32 subprojects are still under construction and 31 subprojects have fully repaid
subloans.
13.   Economic and Financial Rates of Return. Based on a sample of 15 fully repaid
CIB subloans, a comparison of ex-ante and ex-post financial rates of return (FRR) shows
that ten subprojects had lower than originally estimated FRRs, but these were still at 15-35
percent. Ex-post FRRs of five subprojects were equal to or slightly higher than original
estimates. Based on a sample of five subprojects, ex-post ERRs are close to the original
estimates at 24 percent and higher. These comparative FRRs/ERRs would probably be
representative of the subprojects operating at a profit. However, the implementation and
arrears situations for the subprojects under CIB V (paras. 10-12) could mean lower (if not



- 6 -
negative) ex-post rates of return for several subprojects. For example, 55 enterprises were
operating below 70 percent of capacity, and either probably would be incurring losses or at
the break-even level. Furthermore, there were 33 companies (20 percent of completed
subprojects) that had arrears with CIB and 32 subprojects (16 percent of total) were still
under construction and not operating.
14.   Working Capital Subloans. $50 million of the loan was utilized for 46 working
capital subloans and divided as follows: $1 1.12 million for 16 companies in light industry,
$11.80 million for 9 textile companies, $9.70 million for 8 electronics companies, $8.28
million for 5 machinery companies, and $9.1 million for 8 companies in trade, chemicals,
metals, and the packaging industry. Of the 46 subloans, 18 (39 percent) subloans have been
repaid; of the balance, one company is having difficulties in repayment and the others are
continuing to repay the interest but not the principal. These subloans were subject to the
Bank's review and approval, which added to the processing time. This was necessary since
it was the first time such loans were to be provided by CIB-in fact, the Bank assisted in
developing CIB's manual and procedures for working capital loans.  Overall, this
component has been instrumental in making working capital loans a major financial product
of CIB, and in several cases has assisted companies to improve operations and overall
repayment to CIB.
15.   Technical Assistance (TA) Component. This component was for the purchase of
a minicomputer (UNISYS A6F) that (including software) cost $755,000, of which $700,000
was from Loan 3075-CHA and the balance was financed by CIB out of its own foreign
currency resources. The computer was installed in 1989 and has been in use for CIB's
statements of accounts, loans, financial projections of income and expenses, and
international settlements. During project implementation, CIB's reporting to the Bank was
satisfactory, with progress reports prepared and submitted on time. However, much still
needs to be done in terms of coordination and use of the information for CIB's internal use
and corporate planning. Information gathering and use remains compartmentalized, and
better coordination and consolidation are required. Expanded use of the facility is ongoing
to further improve CIB's overall management informnation system.
16.   The second portion of the TA component was for continuing staff training. This
involved 55 staff members in 16 courses in banking management, intemational
settlements/finance, and financial seminars. These were excellent courses. However, CIB
needs foreign training in project supervision and problem projects in view of the adverse
trend in CIB's portfolio quality.  The Bank had emphasized this need repeatedly.
Moreover, contrary to plans originally agreed, there were no foreign experts hired to assist
CIB in the aspects of marketing analysis, financial analysis, environment and subsector
studies. Closer monitoring and planning of training activities should have been done by the
Bank to ensure implementation of a more balanced and appropriate training program.
17.   Financial/Operational Performance of CIB. A comparative summary of CIB's
financial and operational perfornance during 1989-94 is shown in Annex C. In terms of
profitability, actual performance was much below the projections and there was a declining



- 7 -
trend, largely due to growth in arrears and collection difficulties. Lagging repayment of
CIB's loans has been largely due to onlending terms that require borrowers to assume the
foreign exchange risk of borrowing hard currency. The devaluation of the renminbi from
an average Y 3.76 to the dollar in 1989 to Y 8.50 in 1994 meant that any borrower not
involved in export industries and therefore not earning foreign exchange was faced with
about a doubling of the loan repayment burden in local currency terms. However, actual
expansion of its assets was much higher than projected; e.g., at end 1994, CIB deposits
totaled Y 13.9 billion, which was not anticipated in the projections. These deposits funded
a substantial volume of short-term working capital loans amounting to Y 13.4 billion.
Actual long-term borrowings in both local and foreign currency were also much higher than
projected. With much lower actual net profits, CIB's equity did not increase as much as
projected and its debt/equity ratio exceeded the original agreed level (five times) at about
5.63 times at the end of 1994. This was also due in large part to the unification of the
exchange rates starting in January 1994, resulting in devaluation of the Yuan. In June 1994,
the Bank agreed to increase the debt/equity limit to 7: 1, which is still considered appropriate
for CIB's operations. As of the end of 1994, CIB's total assets were Y 44.0 billion or $5.2
billion. As indicated previously, CIB's success and sustainability hinge on its ability to
diversify its products and services while continuing to improve repayment levels on its
existing portfolio.
18.   Arrears Position. CIB's arrears have grown from Y 228 million in 1990 to Y 709
million in 1994, which as a percent of total long-term loans was equivalent to 5.3 percent,
up from 3.3 percent in 1990. Growth of arrears in 1994 was a record high of 178 percent
over that of 1993. While arrears are still reasonably low particularly in relation to total
assets (only 1.6 percent), CIB needs to contain their increasing trend and make adequate
provisions. As of the end of 1994, CIB's provisions for doubtful debts amnounted to Y 531
million which is equivalent to 75 percent of its arrears balance and appears adequate. These
provisions could be considered adequate as general reserves equivalent to 2 percent of the
outstanding loan portfolio meet the project covenant. In future, CIB needs to review and
adjust, as necessary, the level of its provisions to include "specific" provisions based on the
status of each loan account.  During project implementation, arrears and collection
problems became major issues for CIB, which is now implementing measures to address
this problem, including collection targets. These need to be reviewed and/or intensified
since its collection performnance in 1994 was well below targets.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.   The project is likely to be sustainable. CIB has finally been given operational
autonomy as a wholly owned subsidiary of PCBC with a new Charter as a commercial bank
approved by PBC and registered as a limited liability company with a smaller and more
manageable Board of Directors. In 1995, CIB started to implement its "transformation"
into a market-oriented commercial bank starting with the appointment of a new president.
It will be focusing on raising domestic resources from "term" deposits, improved asset/
liability management, and intensive collection measures. With the leadership of PCBC and
supervision by the PBC, CIB's operations are expected to improve and to be sustainable.



- 8 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
20.   Under the project, the Bank played a particularly significant role in initiating
diversification of CIB's products and resources. For the first time, the Bank's credit line
was utilized for working capital loans, equity investments, and leasing operations. These
have helped CIB to promote new financial products which have now been mainstreamed
in its operations, particularly working capital loans. CIB was also able to diversify its
resources, both in foreign currency and in domestic currency deposits. Through the
review of subprojects, the Bank assisted CIB in improving its appraisal standards,
particularly in marketing and financial aspects. The Bank also provided significant inputs
in the development of CIB's manual for working capital and equity investments. The
Bank's supervision missions urged CIB to focus on its supervision and collection efforts
and prompted CIB's collection strategy and multiyear collection targets. In 1994, the
Bank was instrumental in helping to maintain CIB as a separate financial institution
against a seemingly strong government desire to absorb CIB into PCBC. However, close
monitoring and planning of training activities should have been done by the Bank to
ensure implementation of a more balanced and appropriate training program. Yet,
overall, the Bank was quite supportive and contributed to development of CIB's
operations.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
21.   CIB implemented the project satisfactorily and fully utilized Loan 3075-CHA by
the original closing date, which is an improvement over the four previous Bank projects
whose closing dates had to be extended by one year. During implementation, CIB's
operations continued to suffer due to deteriorating loan collections and rising arrears, and
uncertainties about its future role. These uncertainties have now been cleared. CIB has a
new charter providing more independence, and has initiated "transformation" measures
for improved and more efficient operations including a focus on loan repayments. With
its new mandate, operational autonomy, and full support of PCBC/PBC, CIB's new
management team should be in a stronger position to implement needed changes, which
should lead to improved and sustainable operations in the future.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
22.   The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project has substantially met all
of its major objectives. With the Bank's credit line, CIB financed and assisted 204
projects in light industry--upgrading their technology and modernizing manufacturing
facilities--and provided 46 enterprises with short-term working capital. CIB also has in
place a computer center partly financed under the loan and has trained its staff in new
activities. These staff will be critical in CIB's future development. The project's
development objectives are expected to be realized and sustained, although a few of the
assisted enterprises are currently facing difficulties due mainly to evolving reforms
toward a market economy. With its new mandate and institutional setup, CIB is now



-9-
better poised to become an autonomous financial institution providing competitive
financial services.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
23.   In the future, CIB is expected to operate as a commercial bank under the direction
of its Board of Directors and PCBC and under the supervision of PBC. It is currently
restructuring its organization and operations to become a market based commercial bank.
In 1995, CIB expected to consolidate its operations and initiate actions on its
"transformation" towards its new goals and objectives. On the Bank's side, there are no
plans for a follow-up project. However, CIB could participate in Bank projects for which
participating financial institutions are needed, provided it meets the criteria for
participation.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
24.   The following lesson were learned from the project:
(a)   Despite some notable progress, CIB continues to experience problems
rooted in issues besetting the macroeconomy and the overall financial
sector. Recognition of this, coupled with the opportunities presented by
China's recently more receptive environment for banking system reform
signaled by passage of a Banking Law and a Central Bank Law, led to a
shift in Bank strategy. Reform of the banking system's overall policy and
regulatory environment central to our financial sector strategy. While
direct assistance to some key players in China's banking system continues,
policy and institutional change at both the banking sector and individual
bank levels dominates our attention.
(b)   CIB's reluctance to use foreign experts limited the degree of institutional
change realized under the project. In future operations, including the
F7inancial Sector Development Project now being prepared, we will take a
different approach to training. A "twinning" arrangement between a local
bank and a respected international commercial bank has been found to be a
more acceptable means of transferring commercial banking skills to banks
in command economies. When foreign technical experts must be used, it
is crucial to gain the borrower's total understanding and acceptance of
such assistance prior to project implementation.



- 10-
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial  Partial  Negligible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                             X
Sector Policies                            X
Financial Objectives                       X
Institutional Development                  X
Physical Objectives              X
Poverty reduction                                                  X
Gender concerns                                                    X
Other social objectives                                            X
Environmental Objectives                              X
Public Sector Management                    X
Private Sector Development                 X
Other (Specify)
B. Project Sustainability         Likely          Unlikely      Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance          Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                                       X
Preparation Assistance                               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                                          X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                          X
Implementation                                       X
Covenant Compliance                                  X
Operation                                            X
E. Assessment of Outcome                             X



- Il -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit No.                                        Year of
Title      Purpose                                Approval    Status
Ln 2226-CHA/   To assist CIB in meeting the need for for-  1983    Completed
Cr.1313-CHA     eign exchange for industrial financing,
First Industrial   improving investment efficiency, and
Credit Project    organizing and improving CIB's capacity
($ 71.5 million)   for project design, selection, appraisal and
technology transfer.
Ln 2434-CHA/   To continue the institutional building    1984    Completed
Cr. 1491 -CHA   efforts of the first project, including
Second Industrial expanding branches, assist in appraisal of
Credit Project    larger projects and meet CIB's resource
($183.2 million)  requirements.
Ln.2659-CHA/   To assist CIB in financing productive facil-    1986    Completed
Cr.1663-CHA     ities and resources in China that will con-
Third Industrial  tribute to the economic and social develop-
Credit Project    ment of the country; to provide CIB with
($103.6 million)  funds needed to develop its operations and
carry out its Charter and Statement of
Policy and Strategy.
Ln.2783-CHA/   To assist the government in promoting and  1987    Completed
Cr.1763-CHA     implementing technology upgrading and
Fourth Industrial  modernization in industry, to build up
Credit Project    sound institutions and procedures for proj-
($300 million)    ect appraisal and investment financing and
to improve intermediation practices; spe-
cifically, to continue institutional assis-
tance to CIB and provide a general line of
credit for industry.



- 12-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned        Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification            n.a.                  n.a.
Preparation               April 1988            April 1988
Appraisal                 January 1989          January 1989
Negotiations              April 1989            April 17-21, 1989
Board Presentation        May 1989              May 30, 1989
Signing                   June 1989             July 21, 1989
Effectiveness             September 1989        October 31, 1989
Project Completion        December 31, 1992     December 31, 1993
Loan Closing              December 31, 1994     December 31, 1994
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ million)
Estimated        Actual        Actual % of
Bank Fiscal Year and Semester   Cumulative      Cumulative       Estimated
1990   December 31, 1989           15.0             28.8           192.0
June 30, 1990               15.0            48.2            321.0
1991   December 31, 1990           54.0             78.1           145.0
June 30, 1991               96.0           101.2            105.4
1992   December31, 1991           150.0            100.5            67.0
June 30, 1992              192.0            98.5             51.3
1993   December 31, 1992          219.0            104.6            47.8
June 30, 1993              252.0           145.6             57.8
1994   December 31, 1993          270.0            165.9            61.4
June 30, 1994              285.0           207.4             72.8
1995   December:31, 1994          300.0           299.2             99.7
June 30, 1995              300.0           300.0            100.0
The last disbursement was made on April 20, 1995.



- 13 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Project is essentially a credit line to CIB and as such the main indicators of
project implementation are the commitment and closing dates. The subloan commitment
date (project completion) was extended by one year to December 31, 1993 but the loan
was closed as scheduled on December 31, 1994 compared to four previous credit lines
whose closing dates were all extended by one year.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
The key indicators for project operations provided in the SAR were in terms of
projected loan operations and financial performance of CIB, level of provisions for
doubtful debts, and debt/equity ratios. The comparison of projected and actual results is
indicated in Annex D.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
n.a.
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS/FINANCING SOURCES
During appraisal, the total project costs were estimated at $460 million equivalent
including a foreign currency cost of $300 million (Bank loan). No complete data are
available on actual costs of the subprojects. However, based on a limited sample of
subprojects (as in other previous credit lines), CIB's portion averaged 62 percent
(52 percent in foreign currency financina and 10 percent in local currency).  The
enterprises provided on average about 38 percent of project requirements. Based on these
averages, the project costs of CIB V are estimated as follows:
Amount ($ Million)    Percent of Total Investments
Total investments                 469.0                    100.0
(foreign currency)             (244.0)                  (49.2)
(local currency)               (225.0)                  (51.8)
CIB Loans                         291.0                    62.0
(foreign currency)             (244.0)                  (52.0)
(local currency)                (47.0)                  (10.0)
Enterprise Funds                   178.0                   38.0



- 14 -
TABLE 9: EcONOMIC AND FINANCIAL COSTS AND BENEFITS
No financial rate of return (FRR) or economic rate of return (ERR) for the whole project
was calculated at appraisal because this was an IDF operation. However, FRRs and
ERRs were calculated by CIB for the individual subprojects. These were required to be
above 12 percent, according to the Project Agreement. Based on a sample of 15 fully
repaid subloans, a comparison of ex-ante and ex-post FRRs shows that the subprojects
had lower than originally estimated FRRs but these were still at 15 to 35 percent. Ex-post
FRRs of five subprojects were equal to or slightly higher than original estimates.
Based on a sample of five fully-repaid subprojects, ex-post ERRs are close to the original
estimates at 24 percent or higher.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant Present  Fulfillment    Original Description of
Section    Type    Status    Date              Covenant                 Comments
vrject Agreement
3.02    Financial    C                long-term debt/equity ratio of   In June 1995, debt/equity
no more than 5:1           ratio increased to 7:1
3.05    Financial    C     12/31/92    diversification of CIB's
funding sources
3.06    Financial    C     12/31/92    minimum provisions for
doubtful debts at 2% of
portfolio



- 15 -
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                                Weeks                               $
Through Appraisal                                       69.0                              n.a.
Appraisal to Board                                       11.7                             n.a.
Board to Effectiveness                                    1.0                             n.a.
Supervision                                            123.0                              n.a.
Completion                                                3.0                             n.a.
Total                                              207.7
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of Project    Month/   No. of   Days in   Staff Skills   Implementation   Development  Types of
Cycle                Year    Persons    Field    Represented         Status          Impact      Problems
Through Appraisal    09/88       3        19        Finance           n.a.            n.a.         n.a.
02/89       3        12        Finance          n.a.             n a.         n.a.
Appraisal through     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.        n.a.            n.a.            n.a.         n.a.
Board Approval
Board Approval        n.a.      n.a.      n.a.        n.a.            n.a.            n.a.         n.a.
through Effective-
ness
Supervision          10/90       3        14        Finance,           I               I            M
Civil Eng.
10/91      3         12       Finance,           I                I            M
Economic
11/92      2         7        Finance            I                I            M
03/93       1        10        Finance           2                2           M/F
10/94      1         7        Finance            2                2          I/M/F
Completion           03/95       1         2        Finance            2               2           M/F
I = Implementation; M = Management; F = Finance.






-17 -                      ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S EVALUATION AND PROJECT IMPACT
Project Background and Objective
1.    From 1987 to 1989, CIB's business achieved speedy development. So, such
topics as institutional development, interbank competition and shortage of fund resources
were not new any more for CIB. In order to raise the competitive status in the financial
circle, CIB was enthusiastically absorbing funds from various channels. At the same
time, it was also hoped that CIB could continue to get support from the World Bank,
particularly, in respect of CIB's institutional expansion and new financial instruments, as
well as service development.
2.    The objective of this project was to continue to enhance the competency of CIB's
current and burgeoning business, to enlarge and diversify CIB's resource mobilization
and to provide investment finance for the technological renovation of industrial
enterprises.
Implementation of the Industrial Projects
3.    Under the fifth credit line, 197 industrial projects in all were financed. Among
them, 165 projects have been put into operation (including 31 paid-up projects),
accounting for 84 percent of the total. Projects delayed for putting into operation: 50
accounting for 25 percent of the total projects and 30 percent of those projects which have
been put into operation. The reasons for delay:
(a)   The procurement from abroad was not on schedule. For instance, because
of commercial negotiation the imported equipment was not delivered on
time.
(b)   The domestic equipment delayed in delivery.
(c)   The preliminary preparation could not be carried on as planned due to land
acquisition, relocation, and so on.
(d)   The enterprise's self-financed funds were not available.



-18 -                       ANNEX A
4.    Most of the projects' production capacity reached its designing requirements, but
there are 36 projects with their actual production capacity below 50 percent. The reasons
are:
(a)   The equipment can not satisfy its full capacity due to insufficient working
capital.
(b)   T he changing of domestic and overseas market led to sluggish and
stockpiled products.
(c)   The equipment production capacity was not aligned, i.e. there existed
"bottlenecks" in teclnological processing.
Under the Fifth Credit Line: the technological renovation projects accounted for the most
among the total, exceeding 95 percent both by number and by amount.
5.    From the sectors of the enterprises supported, the state-owned ones occupied a
dominant position, but it descended in proportion, compared with the previous WB credit
line. In the course of implementillg this Fifth Credit Line, CIB attached importance to
provide a larger support for the two types of economic entities that have been prevalent in
recent years in China-joint venture and collectively-owned enterprises (including TVEs)
which exceeded 25 percent both by number and by amount.
6.    The industrial projects covered 17 sectors, among them, the textile, light,
machinery and electronic industry occupied a larger proportion both by number and by
amount, because these four sectors are Chinese traditional sectors and were export-
oriented and conformed to CIB's policy statement.  Besides, along with the swift
development of China's automobile industry in recent years, CIB also gave certain
support to equipment manufacturing in communications and transportation sectors. The
wide sector coverage cut down CIB's loan risks to some degree.
7.    Repayment analysis of the subprojects was done by CIB. Most of the Fifth Credit
Line subborrowers entering into repayment period could repay the loans on time, but a
few delayed the repayment. The major factors:
(a)   The construction period extended, leading to the inability to generate
benefit as planned, wlhich resulted in the delayed repayment.
(b)   The subprojects were short of working capital, leading to insufficient
running of the machine, and the economic benefit declined.
(c)   The enterprises cut down the funds used for repayment and used the funds
for maintaining its normal production for lack of working capital.
(d)   Foreign exchange rate changes led to project investment cost increase, and
lencumbered debt burden upon enterprises.



-19-                       ANNEX A
(e)   The comprehensive economic benefit of the enterprises was bad.
8.    The ex-post Cost-and-Benefit Analysis was done on 15 typical projects among the
paid-up ones. Through the analysis and comparison between the projected and actual
benefit of projects, it is shown that the actual benefit is generally lower than the
projected, which is due to the tremendous changes in foreign exchange rate and price
system. Even so, the FIRR is still above the standard level, and the enterprises possess
good solvency.
Implementation of Working Capital Loans
9.    Working capital loans totaling $50 million made in 1991-93, under the Fifth
Credit Line, were thoroughly reviewed and approved. During the nearly four years of
implementation, 46 working capital loans in all were approved, amounting to $53.50
million. According to the "Project Agreement", CIB got reimbursement of $50 million
from the World Bank, the difference was met with CIB's own resources.
10.   During the loan commitment period, as the market interest rate in US dollar
money market once decreased to a fairly low level, the World Bank interest rate of
working capital loans was 2 percent higher than the market interest rate. The enterprises
were reluctant to bear the higher interest rate burden, and they turned to the market to
raise low-cost foreign currency funds. Therefore, the examination and approval of the
World Bank Working Capital Loans was greatly influenced. From 1991 to the end. of
1992, CIB hardly examined and approved any working capital loan applications.
11.   Working capital loans financed four sectors:  textile, light, electronics and
machinery industries. This conformed to the sector distribution of CIB's fixed-assets
loans. But, analysis on each loan shows that the loan amount for light and textile industry
was a small size with an average of $910,000, while for sectors other than light and
textile, the average loan size was $1.44 million. Most of the loans for the textile industry
were approved before 1990; after 1990, CIB no longer extended working capital loans to
textile sector, and this cannot be separated from the changes in CIB's loan priority.
12.   From the analysis of the enterprise type, it is easily seen that the working capital
loans were mainly given to state-owned enterprises and joint-ventures invested by both
foreign and Chinese parties. Among the 46 loans, state-owned enterprises numbered 35,
amounted to $41.72 million, accounting for 78 percent; joint-ventures numbered 12,
which amounted to $11.28 million, accounting for 21 percent, one loan to a collectively-
owned enterprise, which amounted to $500,000, accounted for less than 1 percent. The
loan allocation was identical with CIB's operation guideline.
13.   CIB's working capital loan collection record shows that by the end of 1994, of the
46 loans, 17 loans had been collected, totaling $27.62 million, or 52 percent of the total
loans. Among the uncollected loans, there was only one loan ($1 million) which had the
difficulty to repay.



-20 -                     ANNEX A
Implementation of Equity Investment and Leasing
14.   Equity Investment.  Under the Fifth Credit Line, there were two equity
investment projects, amounting to $2.15 million, of which China International Leasing
Corp., Ltd. accounted for $1.65 million invested in the type of shareholding-increasing,
and Wuhun Yuan Wei Food Ltd. accounted for $500,000.
15.   Both of these two equity investment projects are joint-ventures invested by both
Chinese and foreign parties: International Leasing Corp., Ltd., a nonbanking financial
institution, and Wuhan Yuan Wei Food Ltd., a food processing enterprise.
16.   Leasing Business. CIB approved two financial leasing projects under the credit
line. The approved amount was $2,779,000. All the disbursements have been completed
by the end of December 1994. The two projects are still under construction. The status
of implementation is as follows:
(a)   Guangdong Maoming Glass Steel Project: By the end of November
1994, the aggregate disbursement of the project was $2,085,000 and
Y 14,750,000.  The project's main workshop and its aligned basic
facilities have been completed. The imported equipment is being installed
and the aligned domestic equipment will be delivered in June 1995. The
project will be put into trial operation in the second half of the year.
(b)   Xian Aviation Engine Machinery Factory: By the end of December
1994, the accumulated disbursement was $694,000.  The imported
equipment is under installation. The construction period of the project
was delayed for four months. Although the project has not been put into
operation formally, yet the comprehensive economic benefit of the
enterprise is good, and it repaid $122,000 of rent on time. After it is put
into operation, the estimated net incremental profit will be Y 3,280,000
every year. The loan will be paid-up within 2.5 years.
17.   The underestimation on various difficulties and risks during implementation and
the shortage of matching funds for project construction extended the construction period.
Therefore, the quality and level of appraisal report should be improved, and its
practicality, authenticity and accuracy should be raised.
Staff Training
18.   According to the stipulation under the Fifth Credit Agreement, $300,000 was
provided for CIB's staff training and the availability period was from October 10, 1992 to
December 31, 1]994. But the credit training funds under the Fourth Credit Line were not
disbursed until June 30, 1993, so the actual period of funding the training under the Fifth
Credit Line was from June 30, 1993 to December 31, 1994. Up to December 31, 1994,
16 training projects were completed, the aggregate disbursement was $300,000; 53
persons were sent abroad for training. The training courses are: Banking Management,



-21-                      ANNEX A
International Settlement, International Finance, Project Management, Financial Market,
Computer, Swift System and so on. In addition, two foreign environmental protection
experts were invited to China to hold training classes twice and 48 management staffs
within CIB system were trained.
19.   With the use of the training funds under the credit line, CIB trained department
managers and technical personnel. In the meantime, CIB strengthened the training in
banking, project and financial management as well as securities and the international
business.  Through training, CIB improved its management level, enhanced the
cooperation and understanding with international financial market, fostered a group of
specialists with commercial banking management knowledge and operational techniques.
Implementation of Computer Aid Program
20.   The Selection of Computer. In 1987, along with its business development,
CIB's computerization accelerated. For this, CIB used the T/A funds under the fifth WB
credit line to introduce mini-computers of UNISYS A6F. The total price of the
equipment was $755,000 (for hardware $410,000 and for software $345,000). Of the
$755,000, $700,000 was disbursed from the credit line, and $55,000 from CIB's own
capital.
21.   The A6F mini-computers were put into operation on July 28, 1989. After the
installation of the computers, CIB's Computer Center designed the management software
for "Balance Sheet", "Loan Statement", "Financial Plan for Income and Expense",
Project Reimbursement", "International Statement", etc.
22.   The introduction of the mini-computers played a decisive role in setting up CIB's
computer center, raised the operational knowledge level of the computer staffs and laid a
good foundation for CIB's computer application in the future.
THE REFORM OF CIB IN 1994
23.   CIB's structural reform is one part of China's financial system reforms. The core
of reform is that CIB functions as a commercial bank, and is formally included in the
supervisory system of PBC as other commercial banks.
24.   The features of CIB's new Charter:
(a)   CIB as a limited liability corporation is a subsidiary financial enterprise
fully owned by the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC).
(b)   CIB is an independent legal entity, possessing autonomous administration
and assuming sole responsibility for its profit and loss.
(c)   In terms of its business, CIB is subject to the leadership, demonstration,
supervision, coordination and check of the People's Bank of China.



-22 -                       ANNEX A
(d)   CIB business coverage is expanded.
(e)   The relationship between the Head Office of CIB and the branches is
clearly defined. CIB will carry out the first-level legal entity system, that
is, the Head Office of CIB is the overall leading institution within the
banking system, and plays a leadership role over its branches in business,
personnel and financial affairs. CIB branches will develop their business
within the authorization limits set by the Head Office.
(f)    The functions of the Board of Directors and the President are made clear.
The Board of Directors is responsible to PCBC.
The Board consists of nine directors and Wang Qi-shan, President of PBC, is the
Chairman. The first session of the new CIB Board was convened on December 22, 1994.
Top Management and the Functional Divisions
25.   The management team of the newly-restructured CIB is composed of five senior
officers. Liu Da-wei, the President, presides at overall work; Qin Ke-rang, Deputy
Executive President, is responsible for Planning and Treasury Dept., Inspection and
Control Dept., International Dept., and Supervision Dept.; Sun Xiao-fan, Deputy
Executive President, is responsible for Domestic Funding Dept., Credit Dept., Computer
Center and General Affairs Dept.; Li Zhong-nan, assistant to the president, assists the
president to take charge of Executive Office, Business Development Dept., and Auditing
Dept.; Zhang Chang-zhi, assistant to the president, assists the president to take charge of
Accounting Dept., Personnel and Training Dept., and Banking Dept.
Overall Evaluations and Comments
26.   It is gratifying to note that the Fifth Credit Line closed its account on schedule,
the only one, among the five WB industrial loans to CIB, meeting the requirement of on-
time closing. For this, it could not be separated from CIB's effective measures taken in
the disbursement of the loan including: (a) restructured its internal business divisions,
and strengthened the disbursement management of projects under construction; (b)
closely monitored project disbursement, and timely made use of the undisbursed balance
to fill up new projects; and (c) appointed an officer specifically from the project
department to manage the disbursement of the Fifth Credit Line, and to exchange
information with accounting department regularly.
27.   In light of its experiences in implementing the subprojects under the Loan, CIB is
prepared to initiate the following measures: restructuring loan priority, and focusing on
borrowers' comprehensive benefit rather than project benefit; strengthening guarantee
measures, demanding property collateral mainly instead of credit guarantee; financing
aligned working capital and rectifying the policy of granting fixed asset loan merely to
supplying comprehensive aligned loans.



-23 -                     ANNEX A
28.   The World Bank stipulated that the review, approval, disbursement and
reimbursement of working capital loans should be conducted in accordance with the
procedures for fixed-assets loans. That is, CIB's approval on every working capital loan
should be subject to the World Bank's confirmation which allows the disbursement
documents be submitted to the World Bank for reimbursement. But the working capital
loan is quite different from the fixed-assets loan, that is, the enterprise's demand for it is
urgent, which needs a simple and efficient procedure for review and approval. If the time
taken for reviewing and confirming extends too long, it will delay the enterprises using of
the loan. In the course of waiting for the World Bank's confirmation, many of the
working capital loan applications were canceled by enterprises of their own accord. The
practices proved that: such an operating procedure should be revised. The World Bank
may consider to decentralize the examination and approval authority for working capital
loans to CIB, and omit the confirmation procedure. When applying for being reimbursed,
it will be enough for CIB to submit only a list of the related disbursement documents to
the World Bank.
29.   CIB gained some experience about CIB's equity investment operations and would
make the following proposals:
(a)   Under the World Bank Credit, the proportion of equity investment should
be enlarged to over $10 million, in order that CIB could conduct
comprehensive and multiple-channel investment to minimize or
decentralize risks and raise the investments benefit as a whole.
(b)   Fund investment should be developed. That is to take the World Bank-
provided equity investment line as fund, and manage and operate it by CIB
in termns of fund.
(c)   To add equity investment to present enterprises (with certain capital
background, market prospect and high credit) and avoid the equity
investment to newly-constructed enterprises.
30.   On training of CIB staff, it is hoped that, in the future, CIB could strengthen the
training cooperation with the World Bank in respect of commercial banking management,
western financial accounting, international financial market, financial derivative
instruments and so on. It is also hoped that the World Bank could regularly run senior
seminars of banking management for managers of CIB Head Office and presidents of
branches.






-24-                      ANNEX B
ANNEX B: LIST OF SUBPROJECTS/SUBLOANS-AMOUNTS
DISBURSED
Subloan
No.                Name Of Subproject               Amount Disbursed ($)
A-1     Xiangfan Bedsheet Mill                           2,892,719.38
A-2     Shenyang Blanket Factory                         2,754,704.58
A-3     Xin Hui Synthetic Fiber Factory                  5,758,444.19
A-4     No. 5 Northwest Cotton Mill                      4,971,639.34
A-6     Long Feng Piano Co.                              3,696,000.00
A-7     Xin-Jian Shihezi Bayi Wool Mill                  2,927,000.00
A-8     Liuzhou Mini Car Plant                           2,100,000.00
A-10    Jingshi Silk-Spun Mill                           2,867,000.00
A-i1    Hohhot Synthetic Detergent Factory               1,403,600.00
A-12    Beijing No.8 Chemical Plant Project              2,988,700.00
A-13    The Anyang Bicycle Corporation                   2,906,219.97
A-15    The Anhui WuhuNo.3 Radio Factory                 2,039,425.51
A- 16    Harbin Drawn-Work Factory                       1,793,500.00
A-17    The Shenyang Gourmet Powder Plant                3,410,000.00
A- 18    Hainan International Green Island Shoe Co.      1,624,310.60
A-20    Shenzhen Tianma Microelectronics Co.             2,875,335.15
A-21    Anhui Fabric And Canvas Factory                  5,253,000.09
A-22    Guilin Gear Factory                              1,210,000.00
A-23    Tsingtao Beer                                    3,124,000.00
A-26    No.18 Metal Cons Co & 3s Die Casting             2,671,068.16
A-27    Jilin Chemical Factory                           3,000,127.64
A-28    Guangzhou Strip Mill                             6,444,000.00
A-29    No. 1 Cotton Mill                                2,000,000.00
A-30    Hong Sheng Telecommunication Equip.              1,479,000.00
A-31    Hubei Switchgear Factory                         1,978,270.00
A-32    Yulin Diesel Factory                             2,900,000.00
A-33    Tangshan Coking Factory-Oven                     5,436,000.00
A-34    Xinxiang General Silk Mill                       2,702,652.92
A-36    Shanghai Transformer                             2,453,000.00
A-38    Zhaojie Shoes Co.                                2,310,000.00
A-39    Zhalantun Pulp And Paper Mill                    3,388,714.67
A-40    Zhao Zhuang Rubber Plant                         2,165,000.00
A-43    Shishou Auto Part Factory                        2,338,000.00



-25 -                     ANNEX B
Subloan
No.                Name Of Subproject              Amount Disbursed ($)
A-44    Guilin Tire Factory                             2,970,000.00
A-45    Wuhan Cable Corp.                               2,225,000.00
A-47    Hubei Hongqi Cable Works                        1,836,000.00
A-48    Fushan No. 5 Radio Plant                        2,574,000.00
A-49    Hawson Ceramics Co. Ltd.                        2,835,021.62
A-50    Lin County Grain And Oil Co.                    1,537,667.51
A-51    Cixi Light Industry Plastic Gen. Co.            5,298,000.00
A-52    Guangdong Maoming Glass Factory (Leasing)       2,085,000.00
Total A-Subloans                              119,222,121.33
B-2     Hangzhou Silk Screening & Dyeing Factory          910,274.05
B-3     Ming Shi Dyeing Mill Co.                          611,849.23
B-4     No. 10 Jinan Cotton Mill                          147,883.77
B-5     Zhen Jiang No. 3 Plastic Plant                    487,900.00
B-6     No. 3 Wei Fang Cotton Mill                      1,125,000.00
B-7     Jinan Textile Machinery Mft.                    1,423,746.52
B-8     Dalian Refractor Factory                          409,590.69
B-10    Wujin Electronic Instruments & Mat.               483,700.00
B-12    Qingdao Laoshan Lace Factory                      934,024.88
B-13    Yunyang Car Shifter Fork Factory                1,134,127.06
B-15    Shandong Printing & Dyeing Mill                 1,057,999.90
B-16    Baoding No. 2 Chemical Plant                    2,865,400.00
B-17    Shanghai Toothpaste Factory                     2,477,030.22
B-18    Rongcheng Leather Shoe Factory                  1,670,000.00
1B-19    Zhuzhou Chemical Plant                         1,096,001.28
B-20    Wuxi No 3 Rubber Factory                        1,756,116.03
B-21    Xinhui Fiber Chromomere Factory                   796,900.00
B-22    Chifeng Electric Fac Anshan Elect Potte           572,086.53
B-23    Hailer Fur Plant                                   64,568.23
B-24    Guangzhou Gas Appliance                           300,046.17
B-26    Anshan Hongqi Tractor                             930,000.00
B-28    Xinjiang Shihezi Foosm Dis.                       527,879.41
B-29    Yingchun Embroidery                               296,000.00
B-30    Lushun Municipal Construction Bureau              795,000.00
B-31    Yangzhou Blanket Factory                          530,000.00
B-32    Yangzhou Worsted Textile Mill                     424,025.30
B-33    Hangzhou Winery                                   594,000.00
B-34    Nanjing Friction Mtrl.                              5,544.16
B-36    Wuxi Fuel Injection Equipment Factory             134,186.00



-26 -                     ANNEX B
Subloan
No.                Name Of Subproject              Amount Disbursed ($)
B-38    Benxi Lubrication Material Factory               228,503.89
B-40    Yueyang Paper Mill                              1,000,000.00
B-41    Yueyang Steel Ball Factory                       372,101.97
B-42    Chang Chun Electric Tool Factory                 916,028.23
B-43    Shenyang General War Knitting Mill               686,105.46
B-44    Shenyang Plainlg Plant                           458,140.97
B-45    Tianjin No 3 Perfume Factory                     360,091.12
B-46    Anhui Vinyl Factory                              300,000.00
B-47    Dye Factory Of The Jilin Chemical Ind            740,000.00
B-48    Hangzhou Cutting Tool General Plant             1,720,000.00
B-49    Ningbo Artificial Fur Factory                   1,070,000.00
B-50    Chengzhou Wangheng Instrument Factory            653,000.00
B-52    Agricultural Production Material Company         112,481.31
B-53    Zhuhai Doument Shipyard Factory                  350,000.00
B-54    Fushun Auto Electrical Motor Factory            1,733,000.00
B-55    Fushun Xiangyu Industry Company                  755,044.79
B-56    China Travel Agency                              754,920.00
B-57    Shenyang General Tire Factory                    783,000.00
Ps-60    Hanguang Electron Plant                         797,800.00
B-61    Zhen Ping Hosiery Mill                           460,000.00
B-62    Xinyu Iron& Steel Works                         1,000,000.00
B-64    Hefei No. 1 Plastic                              505,000.00
B-66    Wuhan Electric Cable and Wire Factory           1,046,000.00
B-68    Suzhou Projection Tube Factory                  1,203,270.00
B-69    Taiyuan Stainless Product Ind.                   989,000.00
B-70    Taichang No 2 Agricultural Machinery Plant        36,246.00
B-71    North China Pharmacefunds                         57,546.80
B-74    Shanghai Jie Fan Plastic Product Factory        1,723,295.33
B-75    Jin Zhou Electromagnetic Wire Factory            300,000.00
B-76    Liaoning No 2 Radio Factory                      600,000.00
B-77    Qingdao No 25 Garment Factory                    105,009.70
B-78    Qingdao Woolen Garment Factory                   718,433.84
B-80    Dalian Edmin Tannery Co.                        1,496,000.00
B-81    Xianwei Leather Co, Ltd.                         420,000.00
B-83    Harbin Hualong Leather                            22,079.04
B-84    Bengbu Shonhe Embroidery                         476,088.64
B-85    Lisheng Pharmaceut. Factory                      280,000.00
B-86    Tianjin Industrial                               168,492.18
B-87    Qingbo Electric Freezer                         1,283,000.00
B-88    Xinyi Rosin Factory                              761,029.45



-27-                     ANNEX B
Subloan
No.                Name Of Subproject             Amount Disbursed ($)
B-89    Qingdao Board Factory                            42,822.54
B-91    Yuefeng Plastic Co.                              757,000.00
B-92    Wujin Third Radio Funds                         216,445.44
B-93    Dongguan Tr Bearing Factory                      593,000.00
B-94    Xinhui Shipyard                                  994,000.00
B-95    Beijing Copper Wire Factory                      184,107.55
B-96    Dalian Jiaxing Clothing Ornament               1,470,000.00
B-97    Qingdao Lock Factory                            485,127.48
B-98    Xinhou Beiyue Decorative Matrl.                 459,500.00
B-99    Changchun Textile Mill                          340,129.38
B-100   Jilin Paper Mill                                 747,000.00
B-101   Yangzhou Dahua Towel                           2,000,000.00
B-102   Maanshan Steel Wire Rope Factory               1,980,047.93
B-103   Wuxi Hongguang Glassworks                      1,211,000.00
B-104   Beijing Woolen Knitting Group Firm              295,004.76
B-106   Hangzhou Bush Bearing Factory                    543,000.00
B-108   Yingkou Chemical Fiber Plant                   1,490,019.94
B-109   Anshan Steel Furniture Factory                  391,100.00
B-1 12   Liling Wooden Furniture Factory                932,000.00
B-1 13   Zhe Qiang Daily Necessity Co.                  200,000.00
B-1 14   Rong Cheng First Shoe Factory                   597,000.00
B-1 15   Anshan Cooler Plant                             503,825.03
B-1 16   Beijing Tool Works                              883,015.66
B- 117   Hai Yang Leather Shoe Plant                    291,800.00
B-118   Chongqing Changjiang Printing Co. Ltd.          462,000.00
B-i 19   Wuxi Plastic Factory                          2,963,000.00
B-120   China No. 1 Pencil Factory                      411,200.00
B-121   Tianjin Lead Pencil Factory                      121,000.00
B-122   Shanghai Yuejin Electronic Works               1,111,000.00
B-123   Jiangmen Paper Mill                              564,000.00
B-124   Wuxi Silk Printing And Dyeing Mill              284,014.00
B-125   Xinhui Weibao Paper Making Co., Ltd.             324,000.00
B-126   Hualin Rubber Factory                          1,702,000.00
B-127   WuhuNo.2 Radio Factory                          473,000.00
B-128   Shanghai Guangzhou Global Shoes Co. Ltd.         104,200.00
B-129   Mudanjiang Fourth Medicine Factory             1,250,000.00
B-130   Taihe Elctric Industry Co. Ltd.                  105,000.00
B-131   Shunsheng Plastisol Co.                        1,495,559.44
B-132   Jinping Stainless Steel Products Co.             357,000.00
B-133   Hua Zhong Equipment Factory                    1,215,500.00



-28 -                    ANNEX B
Subloan
No.                Name Of Subproject             Amount Disbursed ($)
B-134   Chong Chao Electronic Ind. Co. Ltd.              766,500.00
B-135   Ri Zhao No. 3 & Hongkong Ji Yi Co.             1,046,300.00
B-136   Wendeng Embroidering Factory                     370,200.00
B-137   Qunli Radio Equipment Factory                    533,400.00
B-138   Shanghai No.2 Electronic Component Factory       347,812.54
B-139   Hangchou Southeast Chemical Plant              2,216,000.00
B-140   Jinan General Light-Ind. Chem. Factory           263,084.51
B-141   Tongliao No. 1 Wool Mill                         806,300.00
B-142   Wuxi Radio Component Factory                     547,979.66
B-143   Zhu Cheng No. I Woolen Textile Factory           219,500.00
B-145   Shanghai Intl. Leasing Co. Ltd. (Equity Investment)  1,650,000.00
B-146   Shanghai Xinfeng Printing & Dyeing             1,853,874.64
B-147   Rizhao Luda Motor Making Parts                   610,232.32
B-148   Huawei Plastic Ind. Co.                          307,963.93
B-149   Jiangjing Pharmaceutical Ltd.                    502,500.00
B-150   Wuzhou Storage Battery                           600,000.00
B-151   Beijing No. 9 Semiconductor                      315,399.85
B-152   Tianjin Fuda Plastic Product Co.                400,000.00
B-153   Shuangyashan Red Mudplastics Co.                 470,000.00
B-154   Shenyang Tannery                               1,467,000.00
B-155   Jiamusi Jiaweiya Co. Ltd.                        602,000.00
B-156   Shandong Rongcheng Fishset Plant               1,498,939.39
B-158   Hunan Taoyuan Textile & Print. Mill              950,000.00
B-159   Tianjin No. 24 Plastic Factory                   275,000.00
B-160   Tianjin No. 7 Plastic Factory                    562,000.00
B-161   Shenyang Weighing Apparatus                    1,329,032.65
B-162   Tianjin Emery Cloth And Abrasive Paper         1,500,000.00
B- 163   Nangong Great Wall Knitting                     605,000.00
B-164   Taoyuan Textile Printing                         490,000.00
B-166   Qinzhou Decorative Brickyard                     320,000.00
B-167   Weifang Huayi Clothing Co.                      462,000.00
B-169   Taian Beihong Food Co. Ltd.                      658,400.05
B-170   Yizheng Piston Ring Factory                    2,014,900.00
B-171   Jilin City Wooden Furniture Factory              685,000.00
B- 172   Changchun Neptune Electronics                 1,460,000.00
B-174   Qingyun Industry Corporation                   1,000,000.00
B-175   Xin Hui Carpet Factory                         1,493,991.48
B-176   Siping Special Automobile Factory                797,000.00
B-177   Qingdao Radiator Factory                       1,022,000.00
B-178   Anhui Shengquan Beer                             880,000.00



-29-                      ANNEX B
Subloan
No.                Name Of Subproject              Amount Disbursed ($)
B-179   Fuzhou Textile And Printing Mill                  500,000.00
B-1 80   Dongying Shengde Manufacture Pitcher           1,380,000.00
B-181   Chaozhou City Chaosheng Min. Elec.                400,000.00
B-182   Foshan Plastics Factory No. 4                     629,000.00
B-183   Wuhan Yuanwei Food Co. (Equity Investment)        501,012.52
B-184   Shunde Feiting Knitting Co.                       838,000.00
B-185   Yantai Gahara Med. Products                     1,404,000.00
B-186   Gaomi Longgao Ceramics                          1,252,000.00
B-187   Wuxi Silk Knitting                              2,950,000.00
B-188   Huizhou Virtue Clothes Industry                 2,751,047.63
B-189   Xian Mach. Factory (Leasing)                      694,000.00
Total B-Subloans                              129,749,378.47
Total Subloans                                248,971,499.80
Working Capital Subloans                       50,000,000.00
Computerization Project                          697,684.16
Consultancy And Training                         299,849.19
Revolving Fund                                    30,966.85
Total Amount Disbursed                       $300,000,000.00
Note: The number of subloans is 204, of which 4 subloans were for equity or leasing
operations. A total of 243 subprojects were submitted, of which 39 were either
canceled, withdrawn, or transferred: 28 A-subloans and 11 B-subloans.



- 30 -                                                             ANNEX C
ANNEX C: CIB-COMPARATIVE (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1989-94
(Y million)
ACTFUALS                                                            PROJEC EI)
1989       1990        1991       1992        1993       1994        1989       1990        1991       1992        1993        1994
Income Statements
Total Income                    630.33      855.21     881.43    1.094.43    1.758.27    2.635.26    566 30      721.40    1,019.10    1,378.50       n.a.       n.a.
Total Expenses                  470.28      736.43     764.91      969.30    1.616.87    2,524.12    341.10      475.70      598.30     872.70        n.a.       n.a.
Net Income before Inc. Tax      160.05      118.78     116.52      125.12     141.40      111.14     212.80      233.10     397.40      478.00        na.        n.a.
Income Taxes                     97.63       7246       71.08       76.33      8201        65 53     117.10      128.20     218.60      262.90        na.        n.a.
Net Income                       62.42      46.32       45.44       48.80      59.38       45.61      95.70      104.90      178.80     215.10        n.a.       n.a.
Balance Sheet Statements
Cash/ due from banks           935.91    1.801.96    1,929.47    2,425.33    4.09073    7.724.27     752.90     497.10      317.20     440.50        n.a.        n.a.
Current assets                 2,018.80    3.653.51    4,568.37    5,685.64    6.814.34   11.314.58    1,735.60    2.026.50    2,757.90    4,139.70   n.a.       n.a.
Investment Loans:
-local currency              1.598.36    1.615.22    1,565.15    1,719.84    2.41450    3.117.57    1,675.90    2,126.80    2,506.40    2,845.40    n.a.        na.
-foreign currency            4,529.74    5,346.79    51616.38    5,703.83    6,594.88   10254. 15   3.511.20    4.727.50    6,012.50    7,424.30   n a.        na.
-Working Capital loans        1,014.76    2,144.86    4.297.94    8.401.13    9.848.55   13,428.00   186.00     515.00     996.50    1;710.8(0       n a.       n.a.
lotal Investment Loans        7.164.35    9.106.87   11.479.47   15.82479   18,857.93   26.799.72    4.650.1(\   6.150.70    7.443.70    8,710.10    n.a.        n.a.
less: Accu. Provisions         21.49      109.28      109.28     227.99      376.98     531.25       43.00      88.40      I52.30     239.60        n.a.        n.a.
Net Investment Loans          7,142.86    8.997.59   11,370.19   15.596.80   18.480.95   26.268.47    4.607.10    6.06230    7291.40    8.470.50      n.a.       n.a.
Lon-temi Investments             14.88       17.41      26.68       98.40     205.30      256.25       14.00      42.70       81.50     134.20        n.a.       n.a.
NetFixed Assets                  10.70      15.50       27.97      34.27      125.91      199.39       7.00       15.00      31.10       63.10       n.a.        n.a.
OtherAssets                     830.11     830.78    1,331.02    2.451.41    4.279.51    5.967.36    206.60     261 90      351.00      423.60       na.         n.a.
TOTAL ASSETS                  10,017.35   13,514.79   17,324.23   23,866.51   29,906.00   44,006.06    6,570.30    8,408.40   10,512.90   13,231.10   n.a.       n.a.
Deposits:
-local curency                 61300      93968    1.65163    4,044.41    7.51 1.10   10,173.07       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        n.a        n a.
-foreign currency              745.62     927.73    1.331 .23    2.090.32    2.132,92    3,820.30      0 00       0.00        0.00       0 00        n.a.       n.a
Total current Liabilities     2,344.51    4.033.66    5,300.54    9.569 28   14.821.20   22,622.25    1.373.40    1.962.50    2.643 30    3.697.00    n.a.       n.a.
Long-term Debts:
-local currency                620.00    1,355.81    2,853.56    3,567.28    2.011.48    2,561.06   795.0(1     895.00      875.00     845.00        n.a.       n.a.
-foreign currency            4,197.15    5,245.22    5,622.09    5,991.98    7.029.84   10.283.67    2.585.90    3.372.50    4,382.40    5,536.80    n.a.       n.a.
TotaFLong-term Debts         4,817.15    6,601.03    8,475.65    9,559.25    9.041 32   12,84473    3.380.90    4.267.50    5,257.40    6,381.80    na.         n.a.
Other liabilities              1,146.34    1,059.12    1,702.51    2,906.24    4,243.26    6.259.26  287.50      295.00      300.00     375.00        n.a.       n.a.
Equity                         1.709.34    1,748.53    1,845.53    1,831.75    1,800.22    2,279.83    1,528.50    1,883.40    2,312.20    2,777.30   n.a        n.a.
TOTAL LtAB. & EQUITY          10,017.34   13,442.33   17,324.23   23,866.53   29,906.00   44,006.06    6,570.30    8,408.40   10,512.90   13,231.10   n.a.       n.a.
RATIOS:
CurrentRatio(X)                   1.29        1.44        1.67       1.47        1.12       1.09        1.26       1.03        1.04       1.12        n.a.       n.a.
Long-term debVequity ratio (X)    2.85        3.78       4.59        5.22       5.02        5.63        2.21       2.27        2.27       2.30        n.a.       n.a.
Ace. Provisions/gross loan        0.30        1.20       0.95        1.44        2.00       1.98        0.83       1.29        1.79       2.33        n.a.        n.a.
portfolio (%)
Net Income/Equity (%)             3.65        2.65       2.46        2.66        3.30       2.00        6.26       5.57        7.73       7.74        n.a.        n.a.
As % of total assets:
-total income                    6.29       6.33        5.09       4.59        5.88        5.99       8.62        8.58       9.69       10.42       n.a.        n.a.
-net income                      0.62       0.34        0.26       0.20        0.20       0.10        1.46        1.25       1.70        1.63       na.         na.
-administrative/otherexpense     0.21       0.16        0.15       0.19        0.15       0.10        0.35        0.27       0.22        0.17       na.         na.
Note::   Equity and loan portfolio are net of provisions for doubtful debts in calculating debt/equity ratio). Current maturities of long-term loans have been classified in current assets in projected
figures. Current assets includes working capital loans in calculating current ratio - actual higures.
Sources: Actual CIB audited financial statements and Staff Appraisal Report for CIB V for projected data (made up to only 1992).









IMAGING
Report No:      15251
Type: ICR



