Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3075-0-CHA
(Fifth Industrial Credit Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 21, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3075-0-CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by China Investment Bank (CIB), with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to CIB the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CIB;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Charter" means the Charter of China Investment Bank approved by the 
Borrower's State Council on December 4, 1981;
(b)
"CIB" means China Investment Bank, a state enterprise established 
pursuant to its Charter;
(c)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower;
(d)
"free-limit Sub-loan or Investment" means a Sub-loan or Investment which 
qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan or Investment pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan, made or proposed 
to be made by CIB in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan relent to CIB under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(f)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which CIB proposes to make 
or has made a Sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made an Investment;
(g)
"Investment Project" means a specific technological restructuring project 
(including the financing of free-standing working capital requirements) in an 
industrial sub-sector (excluding basic and heavy industry) to be carried out by an 
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment;
(h)
"Lending Procedures" means the Lending Procedures (on a Trial Basis) of 
CIB, approved by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance on April 2, 1983;
(i)
"Prior Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan as defined in Section 1.02 (e) (i) of 
the Development Credit Agreement, dated December 28, 1982, Section 1.02 (e) of the 
Development Credit Agreement, dated June 25, 1984, Section 1.02 (f) of the Development 
Credit Agreement, dated April 16, 1986, and Section 1.02 (f) of Development Credit 
Agreement, dated March 16, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association for the 
Industrial Credit Project, Second Industrial Credit Project, Third Industrial Credit 
Project and Fourth Industrial Credit Project, respectively; 
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and CIB, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(l)
"Statement of Operating and Financial Policies" and "Statement of 
Development Strategy" mean the Statement of Operating and Financial Policies and 
Development Strategy Statement of CIB, respectively, as approved by its Board of 
Directors in July 1986 and as revised thereafter with the Bank's concurrence;
(m)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by CIB 
or by any one or more Subsidiaries of CIB or by CIB and one or more of its 
Subsidiaries;
Page  3
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CIB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(o)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CIB to an 
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds 
of the Loan relent to CIB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(p)
"Supplementary Regulations" means the "Regulations Supplementary to the 
Charter of China Investment Bank," approved by CIB's Board of Directors on October 6, 
1982; and
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. The Development Credit Agreements referred to in Section 1.02 (i) 
of this Agreement are hereby amended by replacing the term "Statement of Policy" 
wherever it appears in such agreements with the term "Statement of Operating and 
Financial Policies".
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:
(i)
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
by CIB on account 
of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under 
a Sub-loan or Investment to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Investment Project 
in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;
(ii)
amounts in respect of interest during construction payable in 
foreign currency by 
an Investment Enterprise under a 
Sub-loan; and
(iii)
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Part B of the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and CIB of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Page  4
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. CIB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause CIB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Page  5
Agreement all the obligations of CIB therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CIB to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance; and (ii) enable Investment Enterprises to convert sufficient amounts 
of Renminbi to foreign currency as and when needed to make payments to CIB under their 
Sub-loans.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to CIB under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CIB under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include: (i) 
interest payable by CIB on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at the variable rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) 
repayment of principal by CIB within 20 years, including five years of grace; (iii) 
foreign exchange risk to be borne by CIB; and (iv) commitment charges payable by CIB 
on the principal amount not yet withdrawn from time to time at the rate of 0.75% per 
annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
to affect the provisions of paragraph (b) above.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CIB 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
Page  6
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, from time to time, at the request of any one 
of them, exchange views with the Bank and CIB on the interest rates to be charged by 
CIB in its lending operations in light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and 
interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
Section 4.03. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall permit CIB to mobilize its resources in accordance with 
Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
CIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CIB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter, Supplementary Regulations or Lending Procedures shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of CIB to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
A change shall have been made in CIB's Statement of Operating and 
Financial Policies or Statement of Development Strategy without the Bank's 
concurrence.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CIB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement;
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and CIB; and
Page  7
(c)
a revised Statement of Operating and Financial Policies and Statement of 
Development Strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been approved by CIB's 
Board of Directors.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CIB, 
and is legally binding upon CIB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CIB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CIB in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Page  8
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated             % of
                       (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans         299,000,000          100% of amounts
     and Invest-                            disbursed by CIB
     ments                                  for foreign
                                            expenditures
                                            (including interest
                                            during construction on
                                            Sub-loans) and for
                                            local expenditures
                                            (ex-factory)
(2)  Goods for Part B       700,000         100% of foreign
     of the Project                         expenditures, 100%
                                            of local expendi-
                                            tures (ex-factory)
                                            and 75% of local
                                            expenditures for
                                            other items procured
                                            locally
(3)  Consultants'           300,000         100%
     services and
     training for
     Part B of
     the Project
                        ___________
          TOTAL         300,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower which 
shall have been procured in accordance with paragraph 1 of  Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  9
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
 
(b)
a Sub-loan or Investment,  unless the Sub-loan or Investment has been 
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to continue institutional strengthening 
of CIB, in existing and new areas of operations; (b) to expand and diversify CIB's 
resource base; and (c) to finance investment in the modernization and restructuring of 
industry.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Financial Assistance
 
Financing of specific development projects through Sub-loans to, and Investments 
in, enterprises in the industrial sector. 
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
Upgrading CIB's management capability, through, inter alia, staff training and 
provision of consultants' services for training and office equipment.
**
*
 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1994                                 5,505,000
June 15, 1995                                     5,720,000
December 15, 1995                                 5,935,000
June 15, 1996                                     6,165,000
December 15, 1996                                 6,400,000
June 15, 1997                                     6,645,000
December 15, 1997                                 6,900,000
June 15, 1998                                     7,160,000
December 15, 1998                                 7,435,000
June 15, 1999                                     7,720,000
December 15, 1999                                 8,015,000
June 15, 2000                                     8,325,000
December 15, 2000                                 8,640,000
June 15, 2001                                     8,970,000
December 15, 2001                                 9,315,000
June 15, 2002                                     9,670,000
December 15, 2002                                10,040,000
June 15, 2003                                    10,425,000
December 15, 2003                                10,825,000
June 15, 2004                                    11,240,000
December 15, 2004                                11,665,000
June 15, 2005                                    12,115,000
December 15, 2005                                12,575,000
June 15, 2006                                    13,060,000
December 15, 2006                                13,560,000
Page  10
June 15, 2007                                    14,075,000
December 15, 2007                                14,615,000
June 15, 2008                                    15,175,000
December 15, 2008                                15,755,000
June 15, 2009                                    16,355,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                             0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                               0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                            0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                            0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                             1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and
(d)
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  11
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently 
authorize such withdrawals.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have 
been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
Page  12
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may reasonably request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1.
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
2.
The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"21. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in paragraph 
(j) of Section 
1.02 of the Loan Agreement."
 
3.
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project 
Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Loan: (i) have received no 
applications or requests permitted under 
sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) 
have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals 
from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such 
amount or portion of the Loan. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or 
portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
