Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15585-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT
April 24, 1997
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY UNIT = RUBLE (RB)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Rubles per US$1
Moscow inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange/
Moscow Foreign Exchange Auction Market rates
Year                      Period Average             End of Period
1991                      61.95                         169.2
1992                      227.9                         414.5
1993                      1,018.0                      1,247.0
1994                      2,212.0                      3,550.0
1995                      4,606.0                      4,525.0
1996                      5,126.0                      5,555.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                           US System
1 meter (m)               =            3.2808 feet
1 square meter (m2)       =            1.196 square yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy                               MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
CDTC   - Consultation, Diagnostic and Treatment Center             MOH   -  Federal Ministry of Health (former Ministry of Health
CEE  - Central and Eastern Europe                                           and Medical Industry)
CPPR  - Country Portfolio Performance Review                      MSEI  -  MedSocEconomlnform
CSU   - Central Support Unit ( within the RHCF)                   NBF  -  Non Bank Financed
CVD   - Cardiovascular Disease                                    NCB  -  National Competitive Bidding
DC  - Direct Contracting                                          NS  -  National Shopping
DRG   - Diagnostic Related Group                                 Oblast  -  Administrative Subdivision of the Federation, Province
FHIF  - Federal Health Insurance Fund                             PMU   -  Project Management Unit
FM   - Family Medicine                                         Rayon   -  Administrative Subdivision of the Oblast
FP  - Family Planning                                         RHCF  -  Russian Health Care Foundation
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development     SBDs  -  Standard Bidding Documents
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding                         STIs  -  Sexually Transmitted Infections
IPC  - Information Processing Center                              TA  -  Technical Assistance
HPU   - Health Promotion Unit                                    TMA   -  Tver Medical Academy
HRPP  - Health Reform Pilot Project                               THIF  -  Territorial Health Insurance Fund
LS  - Local Shopping                                            TOR  -  Terms of Reference
MED  - Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination                     QA  -  Quality Assurance
UNICEF  -  United Nations Children's Fund
MIS   - Management Information Systems                          USAID   -  U.S.Agency for International Development
MCH   - Maternal and Child Health                                 WHO   -  World Health Organization
MMA  - Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy
RUSSIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 31
Vice President             Johannes Linn
Director                   Yukon Huang
Division Chief/Manager     Robert Liebenthal
Task Manager               Teresa J. Ho



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN IEDERATION
HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                                                                                       1
A. Health Status                                                     ..1
B. Organization of Health Services  ...................................   3
C. Health Care and Medical Practice  ..................................   5
D. Health Financing                  ....................................                                                   5
E. Reforms  ..................................................    8
11. THE  PROJECT  CONTEXT  .........................................    11
A. Project Evolution ...... ..................                                                                            11
B. The World Bank's Assistance Strategy for Russia  .......................    12
C.  Lessons From  Experience   ................................... ..                                                     12
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION   ............................  14
A. Project Objectives                      ...........................................  14
B. Project Description  ......                ............ ..                     ......................                  14
C. Environrmental Aspects   .......................................    32
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   .....................   33
A. Organization and Management ...................................                                                        33
B. Management in the Project Oblasts  ................................    34
C.  Management at the Federal Level   ................................    34
D.  Project Implementation  Responsibilities   ............................    34
E.  Status of Preparation    ........................................    36
The report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal missions in June and September 1995 and an appraisal mission in January-February 1996.
The project team  was led by Teresa J. Ho (Senior Health Economist). The team  included Robert Hay (Cardiology Specialist), Jack
Langenbrunner (Health Financing Specialist), Emst Lauridsen (Public Health Specialist), Tatyana Loginova (Project Assistant, World Bank
Resident Mission in Moscow), Carl Moore (Family Medicine Specialist), George Schieber (Health Financing Specialist), Robert Taylor (Health
Care Management Specialist), Maria Vannari (Project Implementation and Costing Specialist). Walther Vemiers (Health Systems Organization
Specialist) and Chantal Worzala (MCH Specialist). Salim Habayeb (SA2PH) and Alexander Preker (HDD) were peer reviewers. Staff Assistance
was provided by Redemcion Canlas. Robert Liebenthal and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively, for the operation.



-2 -
PaQe No.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT   ...                                .....   37
A. Project Costs ..............................................   37
B. Project Financing  ...........................................   39
C. Procurement ............................  .................  41
D. Disbursement          .....................             ........................   48
E. Reporting ........... ....................   49
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ......................................   52
A. Project Justification ..........................................   52
B. Project Risks ..............................................   59
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...... ..                                 ...........   63
ANNEXES
1.1 Socioeconomic and Health Status in Kaluga and Tver .65
2.1 Kaluga Oblast Delivery System Restructuring .69
3.1 Project Management and Implementing .72
3.2   Steering Committee for the Project: Terms-of-Reference .76
3.3 Kaluga Sub-project Management Structure .77
3.4   Flow of Funds for Implementation of Kaluga and Tver Sub-projects ....             ........   79
3.5   Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule  .........................   80
3.6   Procurement Arrangements ...............             I        ......................   92
3.7   Detailed Project Cost Estimates ...............                   ...................   95
3.8   Estimated Disbursement Schedule  .................................  100
4.1   Training and Technical Assistance Schedule  .........           ................ .  101
5.1   Project Design Summary  ....................................                               115
5.2   Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators . ...............................  117
6.1  Project Supervision Plan  ....................................                              118
7.1   Selected Documents Available in the Project File .         ......................  122
MAPS:  IBRD 27839; IBRD 27840; IBRD 27841
PROJECT ID Number: RUPA8814



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Russian Federation
Beneficiaries:         Kaluga and Tver Oblasts, Tver Medical Academy, Moscow Sechenov Medical
Academy (MMA), Public Health Institute MedSocEconomInform (MSEI),
Ministry of Health (MOH)
Poverty Category:      Not applicable
Amount:                US$66.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Payable in fifteen years, including six years of grace at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currencly loan.
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
On-lending Terms:      The Government would transfer US$60 million of the Bank loan to the
administrations of Kaluga and Tver Oblasts of which half would be on a grant
basis and half as a loan at a variable rate of interest of 2.5 percent above the
World Bank's lending rate, payable in fourteen years, including six years of
grace.
Financing Plan:        See para. 5.7
Net Present Value:     Not estimated (unquantifiable benefits)
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 15585-RU
Maps:                  IBRD No. 27839, IBRD No. 27840, IBRD No. 27841
Project ID Number:     7RUSPA013



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
BASIC DATA SHEET
INDICATOR                                                            RUSSIA  YEAR
Country and Income Data
Area (000 sq. km)                                                  17,075   1994
Population density (pop. per sq. km)                                  8.7   1994
GNP per capita (US$)                                                 1910   1994
Population Indicators
Population (millions)                                               148.2   1994
of which urban (percent)                                         73.1   1994
Population growth rate (percent)                                     -0.1   1994
Population: 16-59yrs males, 16-54yrs females (percent)               56.6   1994
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)                               9.5   1994
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)                              15.6  1994
Life expectancy at birth (years):  Women                             71.7   1994
Men                                    58.2   1994
Health Care Indicators
Population per physician                                            222.0   1994
Population per nurse                                                155.5   1994
Hospital beds per 10,000 population                                 129.4  1994
Reproductive Health
Share of women of childbearing age                                   34.9   1994
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                               1.3  1994
Contraceptive prevalence (share of females 15-49)                    22.8   1993
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 births)                             18.6  1994
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)                    52.0   1993
Health Financing
Total public sector health expenditures as percent of GDP
(without extrabudgetary funds)                                    3.1   1994
(with extrabudgetary funds)                                       4.0   1994
Total health expenditures as percent of GDP                           4.9   1994
Health expenditures as percent of government spending                 7.9   1994
(without extrabudgetary funds)



Introduction                                                                                 Page 1
1. INTRODUCTION
A. HEALTH STATUS
1. 1       In certain respects, the health issues confrontinig the Russian population are similar to those
found in other industrialized countries.  Like other countries which have progressed through the
epidemiological transition, the major health problems are related to chronic, non-infectious diseases and
traumas. However, in sharp conitrast with patterns in almost all developed and developing countries, the
health status of the Russian populationi is worsening. This deterioration is perhaps most visibly reflected
in the alarming trend in life expectancy.
Life Expectantcy
1.2        Until the mid-1960s, health status and life expectanicy in Russia were roughily comparable to
the rest of Europe. However, life expectancy stagnated through the ntext two and a half decades, then
wenlt into sudden declinie with the social upheavals ot the 1990s. Froml 1990 to 1994, life expectancy for
men declined from 63.9 years to 58.2 years and for woienii fronm 74.4 years to 71.6 years. The 13-year
gap between male and femiale life expectancy is the largest anywhere in the world. Men are two and a
half times as likely as women to die at an economically productive age.
Table 1.1: Life Expectancy at Birth (in years)
1965        1 98(       199(         1991         1992        1993        1994
Men             64.3        61.5         63.9         63.5        62.0         58.9        58.2
Women           73.4         73.1        74.4         74.3        73.8         71.9        71.6
Adult Healtht
1.3       In 1993, the leading causes of death in Russia were cardiovascular disease (52 percelnt),
trauma and poisoning (16 percent) and cancer (13 percent). Infectious diseases accounted for only about
I percent of deaths. Over the past 30 years, mortality from infectious diseases has fallen steadily, while
deaths from cardiovascular disease have nearly doubled.  This pattcrni differs markedfly from  that in
Western Europe, Japan and North America, where mortality rates fromii cardiovascular disease declined
by 35 to 50 percent during the same period. More recently, there hias also been a dramatic increase in
deaths due to trauma and poisoninig. In 1992, the sinigle most signiiicanit cause of death in this category,
responsible for 18 percent of such deaths, was su:cide. Another 13 percent were murders and a further
10 percent were due to alcohol poisoning. This pattern strongly suggests a population unable to cope
with the stresses of the transition.
1.4        Both morbidity and mortality reflect distinot gender patterns. In 1992, for example, the
incidence of cancer in men was 1.8 times as high as in women, with lung cancer accounting for 30
percent of all cases. The most common form of cancer in women, accounting for 17 percent of cases,
was breast cancer. At comparable ages, men are over twice as likely to die from cancer as women, three
times as likely to die from respiratory diseases, andl five times as likely to die from trauma and poisoning.



Page 2                                                                             Introduction
Maternal and Child Health
1.5       The declines in life expectancy also reflect a worsening in infant mortality. Infant mortality,
which dropped from 22.0 per 1,000 live births in 1980 to 17.4 in 1990, rose to 19.9 in 1993, before
declining to 18.6 in 1994. This rate is two to three times as high as in OECD countries. Maternal
mortality, at 52 per 100,000 live births (1993), is five to ten times as high as in other industrialized
countries. The main causes are complications from abortions, post-partum bleeding and toxemia.
Contraceptive prevalence is low. The official rate for modern methods was 22.8 percent in 1993.
Although rates of over 40 percent have been reported, these include a high proportion, perhaps as much
as half, of non-modern methods (e.g., rhythm, withdrawal). This low rate of contraceptive use is
compensated for by reliance on abortion; in Russia, there are more than two abortions per live birth.
Maternal health is further complicated by high rates of anemia.
1.6       Children also suffer from anemia. A recent survey found the prevalence of anemia for
children under age two at between 10 and 15 percent in major cities and at about 25 percent in the
surrounding oblasts. Immunization rates ranging from 60 to 80 percent are fairly comparable to those
in other industrialized countries. The availability of vaccines is not a major problem in Russia, as, in
the past, Russia was the main source of vaccines for all of the USSR. Children who survive to their first
birthday are likely to reach adulthood, but then have a one in four chance of dying before age 60.
Demographic Crisis
1.7       The convergence of increased mortality and declining birth rates since 1988 has led to what
Russian health officials speak of as the "demographic crisis."  In fact, this issue is highlighted as the
most significant concern in the 1992 "State Report on the Status of Health of the Population in the
Russian Federation" (1992 State Report).
Table 1.2: Crude Birth and Death Rates (1987-1994)
(per 1,000 population)
_________________ 1l 1987         1988 1 1989 1 1990 1 1991  1 1992 1 1993 1 1994
Crude Birth Rate      ] 17.2     16.0   14.6    13.4    12.1    10.7       9.4     9.6
Crude Death Rate      j 10.5     10.7    10.7    11.2    11.4    12.2    14.5    15.7
The effect on the age composition of the population has been a reduction in the population of productive
age accompanied by an increasing proportion of pensioners.
Risk Factors
1.8       The main risk factors in terms of adult health are alcohol, tobacco and diet. Among the
republics of the Former Soviet Union (FSU), Russia is second only to Belarus in per capita consumption
of alcohol. Recent surveys indicate a dramatic increase (over 100 percent) in the quantity of alcohol
consumed by male drinkers during the period September 1992 to December 1994, while alcohol
consumption by female drinkers increased only slightly.



Introduction                                                                                    Page 3
1.9        Smoking is very prevalent in Russia, with approximately 60 percent of adult men and 15
percent of adult women smoking. The difference in smoking prevalence is a major factor contributing
to the gender patterns in morbidity and mortality. While male smoking trends have remained stable at
fairly high levels, the prevalence of smoking among women, particularly young women, is increasing and
will undoubtedly be reflected in health status in the future.
1.10       Household surveys reveal a marked change in diet between 1989 and 1992, including
significant decreases in the consumption of fruits and vegetables, fish, meat and milk and dairy products,
and sharp increases in the consumption of bread and potatoes. These changes were, in part, beneficial.
Prior to 1989, fat consumption was 10 to 15 percent higher than the recommended levels, while by 1992
calories from fat represented 31 percent of daily caloric intake, although a high proportion still comes
from animal fats. Undernutrition is not a significant problem; however, the prevalence of obesity is high,
particularly among women, and contributes to the high incidence of cardiovascular disease.
1.11       Adult morbidity and mortality are adversely affected by unhealthful and often dangerous
working conditions. Industrial pollution is also a significant problem, leading to regional variations in
respiratory diseases and various forms of cancer, although hard data linking causes and effects are not
readily available. Similarly, high levels of radiation resulting from nuclear accidents require long-term
epidemiological monitoring.
B. ORGANIZATION OF HEALTH SERVICES
1.12       The Russian health care system  as it now exists reflects both the positive and negative
attributes of the Soviet system from which it evolved. On the positive side, access is universal and the
system  is extensive.  On the negative side, the system  is not sufficiently funded to support the
comprehensive service it attempts to provide, and the quality of care suffers as a consequence.
Furthermore, the theoretical universality of access is seriously compromised, with marked inequities in
real access, particularly to better quality or highly-specialized services, among regions and among various
social and economic groups.
1.13       The public health system in Russia comprises 12,000 hospitals and maternity homes (2.8
million beds), 15,500 polyclinics and women's consultations, and 3,500 ambulatories. There are 48
medical academies, 117 research institutes and 34 major diagnostic centers. In parallel, some 600
hospitals and 1,700 outpatient clinics are operated under the auspices of the Ministries of Defense,
Interior, and Railways and other ministries and agencies. Large enterprises may also operate their own
health care facilities for the benefit of their employees and (sometimes) families and residents of the
immediate community. Facilities in this "parallel system" are often superior to public facilities because
they are better financed.
1.14       Since 1992, provision and financing (see next section) of health care have been decentralized
to the oblasts1'. At the oblast level, a typical health care system would comprise a central oblast hospital
(a tertiary-level general hospital with perhaps 1,000 beds, usually the best equipped, staffed and financed
facility in the oblast), several specialty hospitals, e.g., pediatric, emergency, psychiatric, tuberculosis,
I'  Here and in the rest of this document, the term oblast is used interchangeably with the more accurate term for the second
administrative level in the Federation: "subjects of the Federation" (i.e., Republics, krai, oblasts, and the cities of Moscow
and St. Petersburg). The term "region" is also sometimes used to refer to this level. The rayon is the administrative level
next down from the oblast.



Page 4                                                                                     Introduction
one or two maternity homes, several free-standing polyclinics, one of which might be attached to and
serve as the outpatient department for the central oblast hospital. Each rayon typically has a central rayon
hospital (200 to 300 beds) with attached polyclinic and possibly a maternity home, one or more district
hospitals (25 to 50 beds), one or more ambulatories (small polyclinics) and numerous feldsher stations
(primary health care facilities usually staffed by medical personnel known as feldshers, whose level of
training falls between that of a nurse and a physician).
1.15       Although the vast majority of health services are provided by the public system at the oblast
level and below and the parallel system, there is a thin layer of federally financed health facilities.
Federal institutions are generally highly specialized health facilities, often associated with research
institutes, and account for less than 2 percent of inpatient admissions and 1 percent of outpatients treated.
Health promotion is the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH)1' and the State
Committee on Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance (SCSES) within the MOH. The latter has broad
public health responsibilities in sanitation, hygiene, epidemiology and some aspects of environmental
protection.
1.16       The number and capacity of health care facilities is not only adequate, but excessive.
Hospital beds-to-population and physician-to-population ratios are much higher than in OECD countries,
as are lengths of stay and admission rates. In recent years, there has been a gradual reduction in the
number of hospital beds, and in 1992 the MOH reduced the intake of new students into medical
academies by 27 percent. However, given the large stock of physicians already in the system, it will take
considerable time before this intervention has a significant impact on the total number of physicians.
Table 1.3: Comparative Data on the Availability and Use of Health Services
Russia      OECD Avg.          U.S.
(1993)         (1991)         (1990)
Hospital Beds (per 1,000 population)             12.2             8.4           4.7
Average Length of Stay (days)                    17.0            14.4           9.1
Admission Rate (% of population)                 21.0            16.2          13.7
Physicians (per 1,000 population)*                3.9             2.5           2.2
* This statistic differs from the official Goskomstat source. For reasons of comparability, the figure is based on the U.S definition of physician
which does not contain categories included in the Russian definition. such as inactive physicians, dentists, sanitary-epidemiological physicians
and physiotherapists.
1.17       While physical capacity is in excess, quality is an entirely different matter. The 1992 State
Report indicates that 23 percent of hospitals have no running water; 33 percent have no sewerage system;
60 percent do not have hot running water; 23 percent of buildings need major repairs; and 2 percent are
considered unsafe. The state of equipment in health facilities is equally appalling. Much of the
equipment is run-down, out-of-date, or unusable for lack of spare parts. Most facilities make heroic
efforts to maintain their equipment, often cannibalizing other pieces for spare parts. However, budget
shortages for maintenance or new investment are chronic and these efforts eventually become futile.
'! From 1991-1996, the Ministry was known as the Ministry of Health and Medical Industry (MOHMI).



Introduction                                                                            Page 5
C. HEALTH CARE AND MEDICAL PRACTICE
1.18      Health care in Russia is characterized by excessive reliance on curative and inpatient care.
Although there is a strong tradition of preventive medicine, the evolution from prevention of
communicable disease (e.g., through immunization and infection control) to non-communicable disease
(e.g., through changes in lifestyles) has not kept pace with the epidemiological transition in the country.
The preference for specialist and inpatient care, still considered to represent better quality medicine,
generates a self-perpetuating system where the better medical students specialize, upward referral by
primary caregivers is almost automatic, and diagnostic capacity is concentrated in hospitals, which get
preference in allocation of investment and recurrent budgets. This penchant for specialization results in
medical practice that is extremely fragmented and compartmentalized with little cross-referral among
specialties and much duplication of services. This fragmentation leads to longer hospital stays and
generally results in poor patient care.
1.19      Medical practice is dominated by a complex, inflexible, and often outdated set of norms and
standards covering a broad range of items from the management of specific medical conditions to
standards for the layout of rooms in hospitals. These norms and standards, which are strictly enforced
by the MOH or the SCSES, serve as the principal mechanism for quality "control" (backed by a strict
punitive system) leaving little room for professional judgement or accountability by individual
practitioners, their peers or their managers. There is little evidence that costs or affordability have been
factored into the norms and standards in application.
1.20      The ultimate result of the current culture of care is a highly cost-ineffective, unresponsive
system unable to produce the maximum benefits possible from an already extremely limited resource
envelope.
D. HEALTH FINANCING
Sources of Financing
1.21      The Russian health care system is largely publicly funded. Until 1992, the main sources of
health financing were the federal budget and enterprises. Household expenditures for health were
minimal, mainly going to purchase of drugs for outpatient services. In 1992, responsibility for health
financing was decentralized to the oblasts. In 1993, a 3.6 percent payroll tax for compulsory health
insurance was introduced. The payroll tax is collected by a Territorial Health Insurance Fund (THIF)
at the oblast level which retains 3.4 percent, and remits 0.2 percent to the Federal Health Insurance Fund
(FHIF) which is responsible for oversight and for providing equalization payments to economically
disadvantaged oblasts.
1.22      Decentralization, the introduction of the payroll tax, and the entry of private insurers and
providers have radically changed the pattern of financing for health. Although data on the private sector
may not be completely accurate, it is estimated that private expenditures on health, by enterprises and
households combined, constituted 18 percent of total health expenditures in 1994. In the same year, 71
percent of total government expenditures for health were financed out of local (oblast and rayon) budgets,
and 18 percent out of THIF revenues. Only 10 percent of government health expenditures came from
the federal budget.



Page 6                                                                                  Introduction
Table 1.4: Health Expenditures in Russia, 1994
Rubles        Percent    Percent
(in billions)   of Govt.   of Total
Expend.    Health
on Health   Expend.
Federal Budget                                      2 321         10
Regional Budgets                                   17 386         71
Fed. Health Ins. Fund                                286            1
Terr. Health Ins. Fund                              4 392         18
(excluding transfers from regional budgets
and FHIF)
TOTAL GOVT EXPEND. ON                         24 385         100         82
HEALTH
Enterprises                                         2790                      9
Households                                         2760*                      9
TOTAL HEALTH EXPENDITURES                     29 935                    100
* of which 1900 bin rubles (69%) for pharnaceuticals and 860 bin rubles (31 %) for medical services
1.23    As enterprises are privatized, many of them are choosing to shed the responsibility for social
services they provide. By 1994, enterprise spending on social services was estimated to have dropped
to less than half the 1992 level in real terms. However, most of the parallel system of health facilities
are related to government agencies or ministries (e.g., Ministry of Railways) and are not affected by
privatization.
1.24    The majority of household spending on health is for outpatient pharmaceuticals. Certain
categories of patients receive free or subsidized pharmaceuticals. These include diabetics, epileptics,
psychotics, veterans, pensioners and very young children. Inpatient pharmaceuticals, to the extent they
are available, are provided to patients free of charge. As from January 1, 1994, all price controls on
pharmaceuticals have been removed. Most manufacturers have been privatized and private distributors
and retail outlets have been allowed to enter the market. Because prices at the retail level now reflect
market forces, prices are much higher than in the past, and affordability has become a significant issue,
both for individual consumers and inpatient health care facilities.
1.25    Although the private practice of medicine is now permitted, relatively little is being spent on
privately provided health care. The Russian Constitution adopted in December 1993 guarantees free
health care to all citizens. Current legislation only imprecisely defines the guaranteed package of
services. However, certain non-essential services, such as cosmetic surgery and, in some places, dental
services, are provided as "paid services. " In 1994, reported household expenditures on medical services
amounted to 2.9 percent of total health spending. This figure includes privately provided and "paid"
publicly provided health services. In addition, it is a widely held practice to offer gifts or gratuities to
providers in the public sector, with the value/amount of the gift varying with the nature of the service.
It is uncertain to what extent such gratuities are reported in the household expenditure data.



Introduction                                                                            Page 7
Health Expenditures
1.26    During the recent period of economic transition, the Government has made considerable efforts
to protect social expenditures. The level of health spending has been more or less preserved in real
terms. With real GDP declining, total health expenditures are estimated to have risen from 2.2 percent
of GDP in 1990 to 4.9 percent in 1994. Introduction of the earmarked payroll tax for health has been
an important factor in maintaining the level of health financing.
1.27    At 4.9 percent of GDP, health spending in Russia is slightly higher than the level that would
be expected for a country at its income level. However, it is substantially lower than in OECD countries
which Russia looks to as comparators. Per capita health expenditure in Russia in 1994 was estimated to
be $91 at market exchange rates or $261 adjusted for purchasing power parity (ppp), compared with the
OECD average of $1660 at market exchange rates and $1500 adjusted for ppp (1993 data). At this level
of expenditure, it would be difficult if not impossible for Russia to provide universal access to the
complete range of available medical technologies that it aims to offer its entire population.
1.28    Within this total resource envelope, the allocation of health sector resources is heavily skewed
toward hospitals and other inpatient facilities as illustrated by the following breakdown of expenditures
in 1991.
Table 1.5: Allocation of Health Sector Resources in 1991 (percent)
Public Health                                         3
Hospitals                                           69
Ambulatory Clinics                                   10
Other Facilities                                     12
Education/Research                                    2
Other                                                4
TOTAL                                          100
Although current national level information is not available, reports from the oblast level indicate that
the allocation for inpatient care has probably been maintained or even increased.
1.29    Since 1990, there has been a significant shift in the allocation of health spending by
category.



Page 8                                                                               Introduction
Table 1.6: Allocation of Health Spending by Category in 1990 and 1993 (percent)
1990                 1993
Wages                                              47                     27
Payroll Taxes                                       3                      9
Utilities                                          I 1                    13
Pharmaceuticals                                    10                      9
Investment                                         15                     23
Other                                              14                     19
TOTAL                                        100    |                100
Wages and payroll taxes, which accounted for 50 percent or more of total health expenditures from
1960 through 1991, declined to 36 percent in 1993. This is because salaries have continued to be
controlled through a system of federal norms managed by the Ministry of Labor, and have not risen
as rapidly as other costs which have been subject to market forces. In fact, a physician's salary at
present is equivalent to about 70 percent of the wages earned by an industrial worker.
1.30    Physician remuneration is only part of a larger issue that lies at the heart of much of the
inefficiency in the health care system. Under the Soviet system, hospitals and polyclinics were paid on
the basis of fixed budgets that were determined largely by the facilities' staffing and infrastructure. In
turn, salaries, numbers of personnel, and numbers of beds were dictated by Federal quantitative input
norms which bore little relationship to service levels or the relative cost-effectiveness of various services.
The result of this payment system was constant pressure from facilities to expand capacity and a serious
lack of incentives to providers to either use resources efficiently or offer quality care.
E. REFORMS
1.31    In the late 1980s, dissatisfaction with the health system's performance led to a search for new
ways to organize and manage care. Three oblasts - St. Petersburg, Kemerovo, and Samara - were the
sites of experiments with a New Economic Mechanism that partially decentralized health care
management and introduced new payment mechanisms.  Instead of receiving budgets determined
principally by input levels, health facilities were paid on the basis of performance. Polyclinics became
"fundholders" responsible for managing a capitation-based allocation on behalf of the registered
population, in return for which they would guarantee all necessary care. This was an encouragement to
minimize unnecessary use of services and excessively high-cost care. Hospitals were reimbursed for
treating patients according to the type and complexity of illness, classified into Clinical Statistical Groups
(CSG), much like the DRG system in the United States. Although the system contained serious flaws,
including the absence of quality assurance mechanisms to counteract the incentive to reduce service levels
and the lack of a cap to contain total hospital costs, the experiment succeeded in reducing hospital
admissions and length of stay, as well as bed capacity.
1.32    The series of laws and decrees passed from 1991 through 1993 brought sweeping changes to the
health sector. They confirmed the new Government's intent to guarantee universal access to health
services, created the framework for both mandatory and voluntary health insurance, introduced a 3.6



Introduction                                                                            Page 9
percent payroll tax paid by employers to fund mandatory health insurance, decentralized management and
finance of health services, authorized the use of new provider payment mechanisms and gave individuals
the right to choose an insurer.
1.33    There were great hopes on the part of its proponents that "insurance medicine," as it was called,
would produce major improvements in Russian health care. In actual fact, the results of the recent
changes have been disappointing, for a number of reasons. First, the system was adopted without
sufficient preparation. Although the earlier experiments on provider payments taught valuable lessons,
there had been no experience in the management of compulsory health insurance funds. Implementing
regulations were insufficient and appropriate regulatory bodies did not exist. Private health insurance
companies which were expected to be the principal insurers were initially few in numbers. Although
hundreds of new companies emerged in just a few years, they were largely inexperienced. At the oblast
level, the respective responsibilities and authorities of Oblast Health Authorities and THIFs were not
clearly delineated. Neither the Federal Ministry of Health nor the FHIF were in a position to offer
guidance to local authorities or to the newly constituted THIFs in implementing the law.
1.34    It is increasingly recognized that the process of reform will require years, even decades, to
complete. In addition to filling the regulatory and institutional gaps in the health financing system, closer
attention needs to be given to the service delivery system, to enable it to respond effectively to the new
financing environment. System-wide as well as at the level of the facility and the individual practitioner,
efficient and cost-effective organizational and managerial systems and clinical practices need to be
introduced. The introduction of the practice of Family Medicine in 1992 was an important first step in
restructuring the delivery system in favor of primary care, but much more is required. In the process
of restructuring, massive investments will be needed to upgrade the quality of physical and human capital
in the system to make up for years of under-investment, particularly at those levels of the system that
promise to be the most cost-effective.
1.35    The current fluid state of governance in the health sector is one of the most difficult factors to
contend with in undertaking health reform. The decentralization of health care, the introduction of
compulsory health insurance and the entry of private insurers and providers have changed governance
relationships fundamentally. The MOH has lost virtually all responsibility for management and financing
of care. The oblasts, which have inherited this authority are eager to take charge of their health systems
and make important policy decisions. However, given the limited access to information on alternative
health systems and a lack of the necessary expertise at this level, oblast authorities are largely unprepared
to do this. At the same time, there is clearly a need to maintain a basic regulatory framework for the
entire Federation including both medical and financial aspects of health care, as well as to build
leadership and guidance to facilitate reform in all 89 oblasts ("subjects of the Federation") and avoid
wasteful duplication. This latter role, for which the MOH and other federal-level institutions are well-
placed, requires a fundamental change in orientation and a new skills mix not yet found in these
institutions.
1.36    As Russia proceeds with the difficult challenge of formulating and implementing strategies for
health reform, the following areas of reform are expected to dominate:
* The Regulatory Environment for Health Insurance. The legislative and regulatory framework
needs to be modified and/or further developed.  Still to be clarified are: the level of
contributions to be made on behalf of the non-working population; the financial entitlement
per capita, adjusted for risk, to be transferred to insurance companies on behalf of each
insured; the minimum package of services guaranteed under the compulsory system. The



Page 10                                                                              Introduction
oversight and regulatory framework for HIFs and private insurance companies must be
defined and the relevant regulatory agencies established.
*  Provider Payments. Problems with early experiments in new provider payment mechanisms
are not surprising given the intricacies involved in crafting payment systems that try to meet
often conflicting objectives: improving quality, capping costs, reducing reliance on high-tech
medicine, motivating physicians, protecting consumers. Further experiments should be
encouraged, with appropriate technical guidance. Ongoing experiments should be assessed
and their findings widely disseminated.
*  Clinical Practices and Other Norms. Clinical practices must be brought up-to-date and made
more cost-conscious across all fields of medicine. In particular, guidelines for managing
different disease categories must give greater emphasis to preventive interventions, the role
of the primary care provider, and outpatient diagnosis and treatment. High-tech, high-cost
interventions must be evaluated with respect to both cost-effectiveness and affordability.
Corresponding norms for staffing, technology and infrastructure requirements at all levels of
the system must be adjusted as new clinical norms are developed.
*  Restructuring the Health Care Industry.  Cost-effective health care delivery will require
significant reorientation in the structure of the health services network, away from specialized
inpatient facilities and in favor of outpatient facilities. The network of family physicians will
form the foundation of outpatient services, supported by appropriate (affordable) diagnostic
and referral services. Massive investments in retraining of health personnel as well as
investments in physical capital to strengthen outpatient capacity are necessary. Downsizing
of the hospital sector should proceed in parallel.
*  Autonomy of Health Providers. As a real market for health services emerges, with providers
no longer unconditionally guaranteed their budgets and incomes, managers of health facilities
and individual providers can be expected to absorb a larger share of autonomy as well as
accountability. Health service institutions from hospitals down to the solo practitioner will
need to function more like free-standing economic units, subject of course to appropriate
regulations and financing arrangements. Stable financing sources and well-defined provider
payment systems, complemented with modern quality assurance mechanisms, are
prerequisites for provider autonomy. Professional associations also have a role to play, in
re-education of practitioners and eventually in setting up self-policed quality assurance
mechanisms.
*  Development of Public Institutions. Public institutions, including the Ministry of Health, the
Sanitary Service, research and academic institutions, and oblast and local authorities will need
to redefine their roles vis-a-vis provision, regulation and support of other health institutions.
Among the key tasks of public institutions will be to provide political leadership in the drive
to promote healthier lifestyles. Appropriate regulatory bodies to oversee operations of
insurance companies and providers, as well as effective fora for negotiation between insurers
and providers need to be established. Consumer interest groups should also be encouraged.
Consumers must learn to exercise their rights and obligations and take greater responsibility
for their own health.



The Project Context                                                                Page 11
II. THE PROJECT CONTEXT
A. Project Evolution
2. 1      This project evolved from contacts with the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH) and the
Federal Ministry of Finance (MOF) in 1992 when Bank assistance was provided under the Technical
Cooperation Program to develop and implement health reform in Russia. TA granted under that program
assisted with the amendment of the Health Insurance Law in 1993. These contacts led to discussions of
further Bank assistance to finance badly-needed investments in the sector. Project preparation initially
focused on nine priority program areas that had been identified by the MOH: pharmaceutical manufacture
and distribution; implementation of the health insurance law; maternal and child health, including family
planning; immunization; medical education; public health and health care management training;
emergency care; catastrophic care; and facilities upgrading. Working Groups consisting of Russian and
foreign specialists were formed on each of these topics, on the understanding that only some of the
programs could eventually benefit from a first health project.
2.2       As preparation progressed, it became apparent that many of the programs on the list - and
in fact much of the effort for health reform in Russia - could only be successfully implemented with full
involvement of oblast-level authorities who had been granted substantial autonomy for health
administration and financing under the newly-adopted laws. It also became evident, given the vast needs
in the sector, that any health reform program was going to be a complex undertaking that could only be
implemented in a step-wise fashion. In early 1994, a decision was made to focus the project on a small
number of project oblasts that would serve as pilot areas for testing new approaches to reform.
2.3       A short list of six oblasts was drawn up jointly by the MOF, the MOH and the World Bank
team on the basis of the following criteria: the oblasts were to have "average" income levels and health
patterns, ready accessibility, demonstrated interest in establishing new provider payment mechanisms,
oblast administrations committed to health reform, and willingness to share the debt service burden with
the Federal Government and provide counterpart funds related to project costs. These oblasts were
invited to present their respective programs at a workshop held in October 1994. Three oblasts were
initially selected for participation in the project on the strength of their presentations. The number was
eventually reduced to two (Kaluga and Tver Oblasts) when it became apparent that a project which in
effect consisted of three separate sub-projects, would be too difficult to prepare and supervise.
2.4       The process of oblast selection has been proven especially valuable for building ownership.
The two oblast sub-projects, though considerably evolved from the original proposals, are essentially the
oblasts' own projects. In addition, preparation itself has been highly participatory, with separate working
groups fully involved for each component and, in the case of Kaluga, with participation from managers
of facilities directly affected by the proposed health system restructuring.
2.5       Of the nine original Working Groups at the federal level, two have had direct influence on
the project. The Working Group on Maternal and Child Health has prepared a completely updated set
of protocols for MCH and has tested these out successfully in a clinic in Lubertsy Oblast near Moscow.
These new protocols form the backbone for MCH components in Kaluga and Tver. The Working Group
on Family Medicine has prepared and will now implement a national program in Family Medicine, now
a component of the project.



Page 12                                                                      The Project Context
B. The World Bank's Assistance Strategy for Russia
2.6        The Health Reform Pilot Project (HRPP) is part of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
presented to the Board on September 25, 1996. A major objective of the CAS is to support human
resource development and poverty alleviation. It aims to do this by, among other things, facilitating
health reform to improve the quality and efficiency of health care provision. The CAS also aims to
develop public sector institutions and procedures supportive of open and competitive markets. The health
service sector, with its dual objectives of efficiency and equity and its inherent market imperfections, is
not a typical economic sector. Its development requires a balance between public sector involvement and
market-type operations that is difficult to achieve. This challenge, combined with the large investments
needed to maintain and upgrade these critical social services, make the health sector a high-priority area
for World Bank assistance.
2.7        The HRPP is one of four operations in the proposed lending program that address the health
sector.  The Medical Equipment Project and the Community Social Infrastructure Project address
investment needs in medical equipment and physical infrastructure respectively3'. Both projects target
investments to primary care and basic referral facilities where health services are more cost-effective than
in the currently-preferred specialized hospital-based care.
2.8        The HRPP represents an integrated approach to reform focussed at the oblast level, combining
investments in equipment and physical facilities with fundamental reorganization of health services,
changes in clinical practice, and new provider payment and quality assurance mechanisms. These priority
areas for systemic change in health were identified in the Social Sector Strategy Note used as a
background document to the above-mentioned CAS. A small technical assistance loan to support the
reform of governance structures, increase long-term capacity for policy development and address high-
priority policy reform in such areas as health insurance legislation and regulation or general norms and
standards in health care delivery is planned for FY98. Assuming implementation proceeds satisfactorily
and the policy environment evolves positively, the intention is to support more HRPP-type projects on
a larger scale, expanding beyond the two pilot oblasts covered in the project.
C. Lessons From Experience
2.9        While not the first project involving the health sector in Russia, this is the first operation to
attempt broad, system-wide reform. With respect to project concept and design, it draws valuable lessons
from health reform efforts that have taken place in middle-income and industrialized countries over the
past two decades. Although the Russians look particularly to OECD country experience to guide their
reforms, perhaps the most relevant lessons come from the countries in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE).
Since the onset of glasnost and perestroika in countries in the Soviet sphere, and particularly after the
start of the full transition in these countries, health reform has been attempted in every one of them.
Their experience is relevant both because they present the unique precedent of countries attempting health
reform in the vortex of fundamental social and political transformation, and because many of these
countries' health systems were closely patterned after the "Soviet model".
2.10       Many lessons emerging from the early years of reform in the CEE have had strong impact
on the approach to reform  applied in the present project.  First is recognition of the primordial
importance of changing incentives within the system. Until providers of health care are paid on the basis
3 The latter project also treats the education, and water and sanitation sectors.



The Project Context                                                                   Page 13
of services rendered or risks shared rather than on input levels, efficiency problems cannot be resolved.
Financial and other incentives are also needed to instill professional responsibility and to replace old-style
enforcement mechanisms. Second is the need to maintain some form of public sector involvement in
health, even as the rest of the economy moves towards market competition. For reasons of equity as well
as efficiency, public intervention is most needed in the form of public financing and regulation, with
elements of competition introduced wherever possible. Third, despite these countries' well-deserved
reputation for ensuring universal access to care and providing the most medically advanced care at the
highest levels, the quality of care leaves much to be desired. The extent of deterioration in both physical
and human capital that permeates these systems calls for massive investments in retraining of personnel,
purchase of new equipment, renovation of buildings, information systems, etc., and a parallel
streamlining of an overextended network of health care providers. The focus needs to change from
quantity to quality and to the most cost-effective, affordable package of services. Fourth is the need to
have the orientation of care evolve as the burden of disease has evolved. This is particularly true for
preventive measures which, notably successful in fighting infectious disease, have lagged seriously behind
in fighting non-communicable disease. Fifth, and perhaps the most positive lesson, is the great potential
for quick improvement that could result from much-needed exposure to information and training of a
professional cadre that is exceptionally well-educated and dedicated to their professions.
2.11      The project builds on the experiments on incentive-based provider payment systems
introduced under the New Economic Mechanisms in the late 1980s (para. 1.31). This experience showed
that while case-based provider payments can increase efficiency in hospitals, there is need to balance these
incentives with a mechanism to cap overall hospital expenditures such as direct budget caps for hospitals
and/or incentives at outpatient facilities to reduce referrals to hospitals. The importance of incentives,
financial or otherwise, to assure service quality was also highlighted. Ongoing experiments in provider
payments, management information systems and quality assurance in Siberia under the USAID-funded
Zdrav Reform Program, in family physician education in St. Petersburg and Moscow, in emergency
services organization in Vladivostok and Moscow, and in maternal and child car service protocols in
Lubertsy (para. 2.5) are all contributing to project design and creating local expertise that can be tapped
for the present project.
2.12      With respect to implementation, Russia is experiencing problems typical of first-time
borrowers, exacerbated by its lack of familiarity with the workings of competitive local and international
economies and complexities arising from its federal structure. The 1996 Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR) highlighted the need to set up project management arrangements early during preparation
and to clarify terms of on-lending sufficiently early to avoid delays in project effectiveness. Submission
of a proposal for the legal status of the CSU as well as agreement between federal and oblast governments
on terms of on-lending are conditions of negotiations. The 1995 CPPR also stressed the importance of
ensuring ownership of the project by those agencies/individuals who would be directly responsible for
implementation. The preparation process of this project has worked strongly in favor of building
ownership especially at the oblast level (para. 2.4). Finally, the quality of accounting of project funds
is emerging increasingly as a concern. An expert in project accounting familiar with current Russian
practices and the areas needing attention, will be advising the CSU on establishment of project accounts.



Page 14                                                      Project Objectives and Description
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Project Objectives
3.1       The project's objective is to achieve improvements in the quality and efficiency of health care
and in reproductive and cardiovascular health outcomes in two pilot oblasts sufficient to make decisions
about national adoption of specific reform measures.
3.2       The project focuses on three high-priority reform measures:
*  changing incentive systems through the introduction of output-driven, cost-
conscious provider payment mechanisms, accompanied by information-based
quality assurance schemes;
*  reorienting health care by strengthening primary care services, centered on a
network of Family Physicians, and correspondingly reducing inpatient care
services; and
*  improving practices in two important areas of care -- maternal and child health
and cardiovascular health -- with an emphasis on promoting healthy lifestyles and
offering better-quality, cost-effective, and affordable prevention, diagnosis and
treatment.
In keeping with the decentralized structure of health administration, the project is organized around the
oblast as the principal operational unit for implementing reform.
3.3       Most project activities are experimental in nature, hence the project approach of testing them
in two pilot oblasts, Kaluga and Tver. Monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of project outcomes
constitute an important component of the project's development objectives.
B. Project Description
3.4       The project consists of four parts: two independent sub-projects, each consisting of a package
of reform measures to be undertaken in a participating oblast; one component to strengthen national and
regional training programs in Family Medicine; and one component to monitor, evaluate, disseminate and
replicate project results. Although the underlying principles of reform are the same, each oblast sub-
project is unique, having been shaped by local oblast priorities, institutional capacities, and other local
conditions.
Part I: Kaluga Oblast Health Reform (Base Cost US$44.2 million)
Delivery System Restructuring (Base Cost US$25.3 million)
3.5       This component aims to increase the range, volume, quality and accessibility of services
offered at outpatient facilities and correspondingly reduce the share of inpatient services. Specifically,
it would expand the role of primary care providers and shift most diagnostic procedures and about 30



Project Objectives and Description                                                           Page 15
percent of treatment procedures currently done in hospitals to outpatient facilities. To do this it would
undertake a major restructuring of the delivery system.
3.6        Structure of the New System. The introduction of family physicians as the principal provider
of primary care constitutes a central pillar of the restructuring. The family physician replaces the present
cadre of "therapists" and shifts the emphasis away from medical specialization. At present the therapist
is trained at a rudimentary level in the discipline of internal medicine but in practice does little more than
screen patients for referral to specialists. Specialists tend to emphasize hospitalization and are trained to
be technology dependent. In contrast, the family physician is trained to emphasize health promotion and
prevention services and is able to treat the bulk of common ailments and injuries without the need for
high technology. The family physician (together with medical assistants and nurses trained in family
centered health care) will constitute the point of entry into the health system and function as "gatekeepers"
for the system. Except in emergency cases, all admissions to higher levels of the system will require
referral from primary care providers. The current practice of self-referral by patients directly to higher
levels of the system will no longer be permitted. Family physicians will also increasingly receive patients
who are referred back from higher levels of the system for follow-up care.
3.7        Family physicians in solo and small group practices (with three or fewer doctors) will be
located in ambulatories where therapists are currently found as well as in existing smaller polyclinics or
district hospitals. In higher density areas (e.g., in Kaluga city) family physicians will be organized into
group practices consisting of four or more physicians. These group practices will offer the same services
as family physicians, similarly acting as primary caregivers and gatekeepers. In the initial stages, group
practices could consist of groups of sub-specialists (e.g., pediatricians, obstetrician-gynecologists,
internists) offering primary care but without specialist training in family-oriented care. Over time, these
same specialists could be trained to function as full-fledged family physicians, although with a particular
strong field of practice related to their earlier specialization. Primary care group practices will be
established at large polyclinics attached to rayon or municipal hospitals, in existing smaller polyclinics,
or in a limited number of new facilities in Kaluga Municipality.
3.8        The family physician will have access to Consultation, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers
(CDTC) to which referrals can be made on an outpatient basis. The CDTC would replace the polyclinic
as the multi-disciplinary outpatient referral facility, providing services in about 15 medical disciplines.
CDTCs will be endowed with diagnostic and treatment capacity greater than that currently found in
polyclinics. This would allow them to carry out many more tests on an outpatient basis prior to or in
lieu  of hospitalization.   They  would  also  gradually  develop  capacity  to  offer day  surgery.
Polyclinics/CDTCs attached to rayon or municipal hospitals, at present administratively part of the
hospital, will become independent functional units. They will, however, also provide diagnostic services
to hospitals, reducing the need for maintaining duplicative diagnostic capacity in hospitals. In turn, day
surgery centers in CDTCs will have access to surgical and related facilities in hospitals.
3.9        Inpatient capacity will be significantly reduced. District hospitals, most of which are too
small to function efficiently, will be gradually closed or reorganized into nursing homes under the
responsibility of other social services. In a few cases parts of the district hospitals will be transformed
into general or group practices. In the larger hospitals, changes in the scope and capacity of outpatient
services should lead to reductions in inpatient admissions as well as in length of stay. Organizational
improvements within hospitals and upgrading of the physical capital would also reduce length of stay.
3.10       Oblast, municipal and rayon management teams will be constituted to provide guidance to
health practitioners and facility managers during the period of transition.



Page 16                                                       Project Objectives and Description
3.11      The restructured delivery system will thus consist of seven organizational and operational
building blocks which will constitute a model for the entire oblast: (i) feldsher stations in low-density
areas; (ii) family physician offices; (iii) group practices of primary care givers in high-density areas; (iv)
CDTCs; (v) general and "emergency" hospitals; (vi) specialist referral hospitals; and (vii) oblast,
municipal and rayon management teams. Annex 2 summarizes the differences in structure and in patient
flows between the existing system and the proposed new system.
3.12      Proiect Areas. Such far-reaching restructuring will take years to accomplish, and will need
to continue beyond the life of the project. The project will support the start of the restructuring in a
limited area - in Kaluga Municipality and in the rayons of Maloyaroslavsky, Ferzikovsky, Baryatinsky,
Zhizdrinsky and Medynsky - covering a population of about 450,000 people, over 40 percent of the
oblast's total population. The component will be implemented in a phased manner, starting with Kaluga
Municipality in the first year of the project. Maloyaroslavsky and Ferzikovsky rayons will follow in year
two, with the remaining three rayons starting reforms in year three. This restructuring covers only levels
of the system at and below the rayon/municipal level. It does not affect oblast-level specialty hospitals.
3.13      The restructuring plan for the project areas, prepared on the basis of a needs assessment,
involves establishment of a total of 30 family physician offices in solo or small group practices (with a
total of 35 physicians), 23 primary care group practices (162 physicians), and nine CDTCs. The number
of feldsher stations will be reduced from 125 to 97, with four stations to be upgraded to family physician
offices and the remaining 24 to be closed. All ambulatories will be converted to family physician offices.
Two district hospitals will be closed (partly converted to family physician offices) with the remaining two
to be converted to nursing care facilities by the end of the project. A day surgery center will be
established in the CDTC attached to the Emergency Hospital in Kaluga; this will serve as a pilot for the
eventual introduction of day surgery centers in other CDTCs in the oblast.
3.14      Under the project, the Kaluga Emergency Hospital will be used as a pilot for establishing
more efficient and cost-effective operations in inpatient care facilities, with the objective of reducing
admissions and length of stay, and improving the quality of care. It is expected that 30 percent of
inpatient surgery will be transferred to day surgery resulting in closure of 50 beds. An additional 80 beds
(one floor of the hospital) will be closed by the end of the third project year as a result of reduced length
of stay.
3.15      The total number of planned bed closings under this component is 352 out of a total of 1600,
or a little over 20 percent, in the facilities involved in the restructuring. Annex 2 presents a detailed
schedule of all restructuring activities planned under the project.  Timely implementation of this
restructuring plan will constitute a key component of the project's benchmarks.
3.16      Proiect Costs. To support the above restructuring, the project would finance the costs of:
(i) minor civil works, equipment, and medical vehicles for 30 family physician offices, 23 primary care
group practice offices, 9 CDTCs, and 1 day surgery center; minor civil works and equipment for 2
district hospitals (during the transition to nursing care beds) and 1 rayon hospital; and equipment for the
Kaluga Emergency Hospital; (ii) study tours and TA to prepare training programs for family physicians,
group practices and other facility managers on the new structure and on office/facilities management; and
(iii) the incremental recurrent costs of the new system (including drugs and operation and maintenance
of buildings and equipment) in the project areas. Basic training/retraining for family physicians is taking
place under ongoing programs, both in Kaluga and at the Moscow Medical Academy. The oblast training
program will be improved with support from the Academy to allow training to take place on a larger
scale and at a lower cost to the oblast.



Project Objectives and Description                                                   Page 17
3.17      Incremental Recurrent Costs. The expansion of outpatient care capacity is expected to result
in an increase in operating costs of the system. This will be only partially offset by reductions in the
operating cost of hospitals, given that some of the savings generated within hospitals would be needed
to fill the current funding gap in these facilities. Estimates indicate that, by the end of the project period
when all project investments under this component will be in place, a net increase of 43 percent in real
recurrent budgets compared to 1995 levels will be required in the project areas (consisting of a 56
percent increase in Kaluga Municipality and 13 percent increase in the five project rayons) to bring the
restructured system to full operation. Assuming that rayon and municipal health budgets grow at the
same rate as real output in the oblast - currently projected to grow by 37 percent between the years 1995
and 20034' - it is not unrealistic to expect that these additional recurrent costs can be absorbed by the
rayons and municipality if accompanied by further reductions in inpatient care and continued
improvements in overall efficiency in the long run.
3.18      To help bridge the financing gap, the IBRD loan will finance incremental recurrent costs
during the life of the project. In addition, to ensure that appropriate shares are allocated to outpatient
facilities in the oblast in support of delivery system restructuring, the oblast agreed (as a legal covenant
of the project) to increase recurrent expenditures for outpatient services as a share of total oblast
recurrent expenditures for health (including THIF and oblast budget expenditures) to at least the
following levels: in 1999, to 35 percent; in 2000, to 40 percent; in 2001, to 45 percent, and in 2002,
to 50 percent. In addition, the oblast agreed to ensure that (i) during each year the health budget
as a share of the total budget (including oblast budget, rayon budgets and municipal budgets) shall
be no less than during the previous year; (ii) the actual health expenditures as a share of total
expenditures shall be no less than the health budget as a share of the total budget for the respective
year; and (iii) furnish to the Project CSU adequate information to monitor compliance with points
(i) and (ii).
Restructuring Provider Incentives (Base Cost US$6.0 million)
3.19      Provider Payment. Kaluga is proposing to fundamentally change the current systems of
payment to hospitals and polyclinics and replace them with systems that encourage provision at the least
costly, medically appropriate level. The reforms proposed are designed to promote primary care,
eliminate unnecessary referrals to specialists, reduce hospital admissions, and reduce lengths of stay in
hospitals. These payment system changes will reinforce the above Delivery System Restructuring
Component and, conversely.
3.20      The proposed reforms are based on the concept of the primary care physician being a
fundholder, paid on a capitation basis for each patient enrolled, but at financial risk for referrals and
admissions. The basic features of this system are:
* Family physicians based either in group- or in free-standing practices will
become fundholders and be paid on a capitation basis for each patient enrolled.
Since primary care physicians will be at risk for referrals to specialists and
hospitals, they will have incentives to treat the patient rather than to refer.
Various models for this primary care fundholding approach are being considered
and will be developed for implementation. Given the proposed strong incentives
4/ In the absence of oblast-specific growth projections, the Bank's projections for changes in real
output in Russia as a whole are used.



Page 18                                                     Project Objectives and Description
not to refer to the next highest levels of care, systems to monitor quality and
access will be needed to assure that patients receive medically necessary specialist
and hospital services.
*  Outpatient specialists who will be practicing in CDTCs under the reformed
system will likely be paid on the basis of completed cases (e.g. a diagnosis-based
case payment) or fees.
*  The Clinical Statistical Group (CSG) system for hospitals will be reassessed.
Other possible hospital payment systems to reinforce incentives for
deinstitutionalization and cap overall hospital expenditures (including global
budgeting adjusted for case-mix, severity and volume of services), will be
considered.
3.21      While the basic conceptual design has been elaborated, the precise details of the new payment
systems are being developed with assistance from the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID). The design and preparation phases of the pilot are ongoing in each of the six pilot sites, and
are expected to be completed in the most advanced sites by end-September 1996.
3.22      The project will provide the necessary training, computers, equipment, and software to
implement these systems initially in Kaluga Municipality and the five rayons included under the System
Restructuring component and in tandem with that component (para 3.12), and then oblast-wide in the last
year of the project.  An interactive computer network of facilities, the THIF, and the Health
Administration will be established, with the computer center located at the Oblast Information Processing
Center and jointly managed by the THIF and the Oblast Health Authority. One computer per facility and
several for the THIF will be purchased to support the new payment system.
3.23      All primary care physicians will receive training in management and finance to help them
understand and use the new payment system.  Each facility manager will be trained in modern
management principles in order to manage his/her facility under the new payment arrangements. Two
staff persons per facility will be trained to implement and operate the new payment mechanisms at the
facility level.
3.24      Under the project, an "incentive payment pool" of US$1.4 million will be established for
primary care physicians. This fund will be used for incentive payments to primary care physicians and
nurses to reward cost-reducing behavior and expanded levels of service. Payments could enable
physicians and nurses to earn up to 2.5 times their current salaries, basically putting their compensation
on par with comparable physicians and nurses in hospitals. The incentive payments will be earned as a
result of performance and will not be used simply to increase salaries.  For each participating
rayon/municipality, project support for incentives will cover only the first year of implementation of the
new payment system. Precise mechanisms and conditions for management and disbursement of funds
under the incentive pool will depend on the nature of the new payment system to be detailed with USAID
assistance. Because the introduction of new provider incentives is at the core of the oblast's efforts
to improve the efficiency and quality of health services, completion of detailed plans acceptable to
the Bank for the pilot phase of the Provider Incentives Component, including plans for
implementation and regulation of the incentive payment pool, is a condition of disbursement on all
components of the Kaluga Oblast Sub-project.



Project Objectives and Description                                                    Page 19
3.25      Quality Assurance. To ensure that service quality improves even as costs are controlled,
Kaluga plans to undertake a major reform in its quality assurance systems. Quality will be enhanced by
incorporating quality-based performance standards in the new payment systems, by establishing quality
coordination functions at the oblast level and in each hospital, through the introduction of structure- and
process-related quality standards (including modern medical treatment standards) for hospitals, polyclinics,
and physicians, and through information dissemination. Kaluga also intends to establish new accreditation
standards for facilities and training of personnel. The intent is to replace the current system with modern
standards of care that rely more on education, continuous quality improvement techniques, and tracking
of consumer satisfaction than on punitive measures. USAID TA is also being provided to design and
pilot new quality assurance mechanisms prior to implementation under the project.
3.26      To coordinate the wide range of activities involved in upgrading quality assurance, the oblast
will appoint a Quality Coordinator whose office will receive support under the project. In hospitals, three
new positions will be created: hospital quality coordinator, an infection control coordinator, and a
pharmacologist. Project funds will be used to help establish these new coordinating structures in the
oblast and individual institutions with support for: training, TA, study tours and dissemination of
informational materials; salaries for oblast and hospital QA officers; establishment of a Drug Quality
Control lab, and incremental operating costs of the Drug Control Lab.
Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (Base Cost US$11.2 million)
3.27      With a view to improving the quality of care and promoting efficiency, a review of current
organizational structures and protocols for maternal and child health care was undertaken at the federal
level by a Working Group on Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning. This analysis highlighted
the importance of changing practices in antenatal care, of upgrading care in the perinatal period, and of
introducing a wider menu of family planning and reproductive health services, including alternatives to
abortion as a family planning method and diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections
(STIs). It also indicated that existing organizational structures hamper the provision of optimal care. For
instance, separating delivery in the maternity home from the provision of acute neonatal care in children's
hospitals inhibits the prompt treatment of sick babies. Similarly, the separation of diagnosis of STIs in
women's consultations from their treatment in highly stigmatized venereology clinics lessens the
likelihood that women and their partners will in fact be treated.
3.28      This component will implement selected reforms in (i) antenatal care; (ii) perinatal care; (iii)
family planning and reproductive health; and (iv) health promotion and professional education. The aim
is to increase efficiency and effectiveness of organization and service delivery, and emphasize health
promotion, a cost effective strategy that has been identified as crucial in improving maternal and child
health.
3.29      The component will be implemented oblast-wide, except for investments in perinatal care
which will be concentrated in municipal and oblast maternity homes in Kaluga city and in eight selected
rayons (Kirovsky, Ljudinovsky, Kozelsky, Dzerginsky, Zchukovsky, Borovsky, Suhinitchesky, and
Maloyaroslavsky). Out of the 23 rayon maternity departments, these eight were chosen because of the
quality of their physical infrastructure, geographic distribution, and the volume of deliveries. It is
planned to close lesser maternity departments over time.
3.30      Antenatal Care. In Russia, more appropriate and effective antenatal care would require
improving counseling for future parents, revising the content of antenatal visits to reflect modern
practices, and improving maternal health (including reducing rates of anaemia among pregnant women).



Page 20                                                       Project Objectives and Description
To achieve these goals, the oblast authorities will conduct a review of protocols in antenatal care and
provide training in updated methods of antenatal counseling and care for all obstetrician-gynecologists
and midwives in the oblast (about 100 providers). Additional training in specific aspects of antenatal care
will also be provided for selected personnel. Twelve women's consultations will be provided with
improved diagnostic capacity , and three will add psychologists/social workers to their staff. Routine
vitamin and iron folate supplementation will be introduced. Health promotion will be incorporated into
routine antenatal care, with the support of the Health Promotion Unit to be set up under the sub-
component described below (para. 3.36).
3.31      Perinatal Care. Optimal care of women and infants during labor, delivery and the post-
partum  period requires both appropriate medical care and a supportive environment.  Creating a
supportive environment in the maternity home is at the heart of the principles of mother-baby-friendly
hospitals (modeled after the WHO/UNICEF Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative). These hospitals are built
on a concept of perinatal care that promotes rooming-in of mother and baby, encourages early
breastfeeding, provides individualized delivery rooms where possible, facilitates the presence of a
supportive father, and encourages the use of analgesics when necessary.
3.32      This approach to care improves both psychological and physical well-being of mother and
child and leads to a nurturing relationship that lays the basis for long-term family-centered health. It must
also be supported by adequate medical care including the capacity to respond to emergencies and adequate
referral and transport systems for high-risk patients. In Russia, immediate resuscitation of sick newborns
in the delivery room has been identified as a priority, as has management of obstetric emergencies.
3.33      This sub-component will provide minor civil works and furniture to support rooming-in in
the 10 target maternity homes mentioned above. TA will be provided to help introduce the principles
of the Baby Friendly Initiative. A foreign midwife will be recruited to be in residence in Kaluga for three
months to provide day-to-day guidance on improving care in maternity homes, as well as small training
courses on specific topics. Training in management of labor, anesthesiology, reanimation and other
clinical interventions will be provided for staff in these facilities. In addition, a system of training of
trainers for basic neonatal resuscitation will be developed and implemented oblast-wide. The project will
finance basic equipment, and necessary drugs and supplies to upgrade services in the 10 maternity homes.
In addition, the position of psychologist/social worker will be introduced. To improve the referral and
transport systems for emergencies, one ambulance will be provided and all target maternity homes will
be provided with communications equipment.
3.34      Improving Family Planning and Reproductive Health Services. In Kaluga, only 19.3 percent
of women of reproductive age use modern forms of contraception, according to official statistics.
Increasing numbers of sexually active teenagers is a special concern. A major effort is needed to
encourage women to shift to safer and surer methods of contraception and reduce reliance on abortion.
This will require a two-pronged approach of: (i) increasing public awareness of the dangers of repeat
abortions and the benefits of contraception; and (ii) increasing health providers' skills in family planning
counseling and management of contraceptive users. In addition, with increasing incidence of STIs,
women's consultations should have the capacity to diagnose and treat patients in-house, without referral
to venerology clinics.
3.35      To address these problems, more than 1200 medical personnel (obstetrician-gynecologists,
nurses, midwives, feldshers, school nurses, and family physicians) will be trained in FP methods and
counseling through the Oblast Family Planning Center (FPC). The Center will receive equipment and
supplies for its training and counseling activities. Free contraceptives will be provided to target groups



Project Objectives and Description                                                   Page 21
(teens, low-income women) through the FPC and women's consultations. Two laparoscopes for
sterilization and the requisite supplies and training will be provided. Training, TA, laboratory equipment
and drugs will also be provided in four women's consultations in Kaluga city to allow them to routinely
offer diagnosis and treatment of STIs. Health promotion activities for family planning and reproductive
health will be implemented by the Health Promotion Unit, with a budget of US$750,000.
3.36      Health Promotion and Professional Education. Only limited health promotion and health
education materials are currently available in Russia and there is little experience in implementing
educational programs that reach out effectively to the population. Under the project, a Health Promotion
Unit will be established in the oblast with responsibility to prepare communication strategies, identify
priorities, design specific campaigns, prepare and disseminate educational materials, and train
communication agents both within and outside the health system in health education. Project support for
health promotion activities will take two forms: institutional support for the HPU (including office
equipment, training of HPU staff and staff salaries), and funds reserved to cover the costs of strategic
planning, materials development and production, dissemination, and other field costs (US$250,000 for
antenatal care and US$750,000 for family planning). Disbursement of these latter funds will be
conditional on preparation of a five-year strategy for health promotion in MCH and an action plan
with detailed budget for the first year of implementation acceptable to the Bank.
Part II: Tver Oblast Health Reform (Base Cost US$38.0 million)
Restructuring Cardiovascular Health Services (Base Cost US$12.6 million)
3.37      This component aims to develop a cost-effective package of interventions to reduce
cardiovascular disease (CVD), the most common cause of adult deaths in Tver Oblast. The component's
focus is on prevention. Component activities represent only the first steps in a long-term program to
change unhealthy lifestyles that result from difficult and sometimes despairing economic circumstances
and a lack of a sense of personal responsibility for one's health. The component also addresses the
immediate need for improved basic emergency care to cope with cardiovascular events when they do
occur, and provides limited diagnostic equipment at the Central Oblast Hospital. Although the focus is
on CVD, investments undertaken under this component would also enhance prevention, diagnosis and
treatment of other major health problems, especially accidents and trauma.
3.38      Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease. The oblast will begin its campaign against unhealthy
lifestyles will use all available channels for reaching the population. Primary and secondary prevention
programs will be based primarily at the level of the district therapist and family practice physician. The
campaign will focus on educating providers on the value of prevention and training them to deliver
effective preventive services. The campaign will also develop ways to directly inform and educate the
general populace with respect to cardiovascular risk factors and a healthy lifestyle. Targeted programs
aimed at enterprise employees and at diabetics (a high risk group for CVD) will also be included.
Program design and strategic development will be based on surveys on awareness and behavior of both
the population-at-large and providers. The following activities will be pursued:
(a) A health awareness survey to be carried out in the first project year will provide
a baseline and guide regarding awareness, general knowledge, and special
concerns about cardiovascular health and a healthier lifestyle. The Canadian
Government-financed project Health Canada has and will continue to participate
in the development and implementation of the survey.



Page 22                                                         Project Objectives and Description
(b) The existing Oblast Health Information Center will be expanded to serve several
new functions. The Center will assist in identifying priorities and designing four
or five major campaigns directed toward prevention of CVD.  The initial
campaign will address cigarette smoking in men. Both adults and teenagers will
be included in the target population.   Project support for health promotion
activities will take two forms: institutional support for the Center (including
office equipment, training of Center staff and staff salaries), and funds reserved
for materials developpment and production, dissemination, and other field costs
(US$1.0 million). Disbursement of these latter funds will be conditional on
preparation of a five-year strategy for promotion of cardiovascular health
and  an  action  plan, with  detailed  budget,   for the first year of
implementation, acceptable to the Bank. Health Canada will provide assistance
in long-range planning and campaign design and implementation of initial phases.
The Center will also assist representatives of various other subcomponents
(described below) such as the Ambulance Center, the Diabetes Center and the
Tver Medical Academy in preparation of teaching materials for patients and
students.
(c) Training and support for primary care providers. Conferences, seminars, and
faculty workshops will be held to create and implement changes in the
undergraduate curriculum and the continuing education programs for physicians,
as well as for feldshers and nurses. To help in the design of training programs,
practicing physicians will be assessed with respect to their health awareness
through a questionnaire and focus groups. Risk reduction courses for physicians
will be developed in order that they might experience first hand the techniques
of risk reduction, and in addition, better act as exemplars for their patients and
for the community in which they serve. Publications will be developed on
healthy life style and risk factors and will be made available as teaching aides.
The primary care physician's office will be a regular point of distribution.
(d) A health status inventory will be carried out on 3000 individuals in five
demonstration districts (the rayons of Rzhev, Kuvshinovo, Vyshny Volochek, and
two of four districts in the city of Tver) - including height, weight, blood
pressure, lipid profile, and blood sugar. The inventory will be repeated near the
end of the project to measure changes in health awareness and health status.
(e) A program to detect and reduce health risks in the enterprises has been developed
with the technical assistance of the WHO-sponsored CINDI Program. The
project will support a pilot effort at the carriage (railroad car) factory - the
largest employer in the oblast - which will include examining workers for
traditional risk factors and facilitating appropriate interventions such as smoking
cessation, hypertension treatment, and diet counseling.   The enterprise has
agreed to contribute one third of the cost of new equipment (estimated equipment
cost is US$70,000) and will pay additional salaries needed for the project and
provide necessary computer software.



Project Objectives and Description                                                  Page 23
(f) A Diabetes Center will be created and equipped. The Center's functions would
include outpatient treatment of high risk and severely affected diabetics and
coordination and development of educational programs for patients and physicians
at the rayons on detection and early effective treatment.
(g) Equipment for the early detection of cardiovascular risk factors (lipid measuring
equipment, EKGs, glucometers and portable ultrasound) will be placed in
hospitals and polyclinics throughout the oblast. EKGs and glucose meters will
also be provided to Family Physicians under a separate component of the project
(para. 3.49). In the five demonstration sites, additional training and equipment
(cycle ergometers, pulsometers, and Holter monitors) as well as computers and
software will also be provided to further upgrade prevention, detection, and
treatment.
3.39      The Tver Medical Academy, which will implement this sub-component, will create a new
position of Director of education for primary and secondary prevention to coordinate the above activities.
The TMA will work closely with the Oblast Health Information Center, which will produce educational
materials for providers and for patients and help prepare communication strategies. The Project would
provide support for the office of the Director for Prevention in the TMA to help him carry out his new
responsibilities.
3.40      Emergency Care. Delivering appropriate care within the first hour after onset of acute
cardiovascular events can make a significant difference in the fatality or long-term consequences of such
events. This sub-component is directed towards the definitive treatment of these events at the lowest
possible level in the health care system.  The subcomponent focuses on two concepts: (a) the
reorganization and modernization of the ambulance service, and (b) the provision of training and
equipment needed to assure that appropriate treatment can be provided at the local level. Both of these
strategies will be implemented oblast-wide. Improvements under this subcomponent will also benefit
victims of other emergencies such as accidents and trauma.
3.41      Ambulance services are currently inefficiently organized, with various specialties each
maintaining separate ambulances. In addition, ambulances are used both for transporting patients in non-
emergency situations as well as for emergencies. Under the project, the ambulance service will be
restructured to provide two levels of service. The first level will be devoted to house calls and will
involve simple transport units supplied with the equipment and drugs needed to provide basic care. The
second level will respond to emergencies and will require more sophisticated ambulances supplied with
monitors, defibrillators, oxygen, and other appropriate equipment and drugs. These latter will be used
for all types of emergencies, excepting those with unusual requirements (e.g., neonates and psychiatric
patients). Forty-four reanimation ambulances will be purchased and distributed to each of 36 rayons and
the city of Tver. An additional 40 already in use will be reequipped to the same standards. Other (older)
ambulances in the oblast will be used as transport vehicles.  Communication equipment for the
Ambulance Dispatch Center will be supplemented or partially replaced. Purchase of the ambulances and
equipment will be done in two lots, separated by the shortest interval to reaffirm that the training program
is in place and the structural reforms have been implemented.
3.42      Almost 2000 emergency response physicians, feldshers, and nurses will be trained in
emergency care based on modules developed for Russia by the American International Health Alliance
(under an ongoing USAID-funded project). These emergency support teams will in turn train police and
firemen with respect to basic life support. All training will be organized by the Ambulance Center in



Page 24                                                      Project Objectives and Description
Tver City. The Oblast Health Information Center (para. 3.38(b)) will help develop training and
informational materials.
3.43      The issue of hospital emergency rooms is deliberately not addressed in the project because
of the complexities that would be involved in reorganizing hospital emergency services-'. Under the
present project, monitors, defibrillators, and temporary pacemakers will be placed in Intensive Care Units
in hospitals that are currently under-equipped. Mechanical ventilators and blood gas analyzers will be
placed in rayon/district hospitals in the ten most populous areas.
3.44      Diagnostic Enhancements. One ultrasound unit for the evaluation of peripheral blood vessels
and one CT scanner will be provided to the Central Oblast Hospital. These items of special equipment,
though expensive, are felt to be important for diagnosing and treating both CVD and other health care
needs of the population. The Oblast has neither a functioning CT nor an MRI. Such a piece of
equipment, with a suitable maintenance contract, is clearly necessary for a population base of 1.5 million.
The equipment would be used for the usual wide range of medical problems including oncology,
infectious disease, and head injury.
Family Medicine (Base Cost US$9.2 million)
3.45      This component would facilitate the introduction of family physicians as principal primary
caregivers, gradually replacing the "therapist". Building on a strong tradition of teaching at the Tver
Medical Academy (TMA), the component would (i) strengthen teaching capacity in the Academy, (ii) help
establish clinics for graduates of the retraining program for family physicians initiated in 1993, and (iii)
develop a network of Consultation, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (CDTCs) to provide outpatient
referral support to the new family physicians.
3.46      Development of Family Medicine Education. The Tver Medical Academy is one of the oldest
and most highly respected medical education centers in Russia. Like other Russian medical schools, the
Academy has historically concentrated on preparing medical specialists rather than general practitioners.
However, in 1993, a curriculum in family medicine was launched with the assistance of a team of
Canadian advisors. The Academy is now one of an estimated 10 medical schools in Russia actively
involved in changing its emphasis toward preparing doctors in family medicine. In spite of its progress,
TMA still faces a number of challenges in developing its program in family medicine:
*  A "Chair of Family Medicine" needs to be established at a level comparable to
other academic departments within the Academy.
*  The curriculum in Family Medicine needs to be refined, especially through the
introduction of advanced methods and materials for teaching family medicine.
*  Faculty from the Academy need to become better qualified to serve as teachers
and trainers in family medicine.
5' At present, hospitals in Russia do not have emergency rooms as they are known in other
countries. Rather, there are admission rooms where triage is performed. Patients are then sent
directly to the relevant specialty department. The Bank-funded Community Social Infrastructure
Project (para. 2.7) addresses emergency room restructuring on a pilot basis.



Project Objectives and Description                                                  Page 25
3.47      The project would provide support for development in these three areas. International experts
in family medicine practice and education will provide technical assistance for organizational development
of the Chair, elaboration of the conceptual model of practice, design of demonstration clinics for training,
curriculum design and preparation of teaching faculty. Local experts will also be invited to lecture,
advise, and generally support the Chair's activities. Foreign and local training will be offered for select
faculty. Funds will also be made available for acquisition and dissemination of professional literature and
participation in professional conferences. The Tver Medical Academy will work closely with the Moscow
Sechenov Medical Academy which is receiving project support to strengthen a national training program
in Family Medicine (paras. 3.70-3.76).
3.48      A Family Medicine Teaching Clinic will be organized as part of a CDTC to be located on
the same premises as the Chair's offices. A second teaching clinic will be established at another site still
to be determined but likely within an existing polyclinic. Cost of construction and furnishing of the
Chair's offices constitute part of the local contribution to the project. Equipment will be provided to
support the activities of the Chair and its teaching clinics.
3.49      Establishment of Family Medicine Clinics. The first doctors qualified in family medicine will
graduate in late 1995, with about ten graduates expected each year over the next few years. Over the
life of the project, Tver Medical Academy and the Tver Regional Health Authority plan to establish up
to fifty family medicine clinics at locations throughout Tver Oblast. To achieve these objectives, the
project will support: clinic renovation; technical assistance for development of training workshops on
clinic organization and management and for offering direct advice to the first few graduates setting up
offices: a basic package of medical equipment and limited supplemental equipment for doctors in remote
rural areas or where diagnostic support is not readily available. There are no plans under the project to
transfer ownership of assets in these clinics to family practitioners. Hence the equipment will remain
public property.
3.50      Given the importance of maintaining a stable, adequate source of financing for primary care
services, the oblast agreed (as a legal covenant of the project) to increase recurrent expenditures for
outpatient services as a share of total oblast recurrent expenditures for health (including THIF and
oblast budget expenditures) to at least the following levels: in 1999, to 35 percent; in 2000, to 40
percent; in 2001, to 45 percent, and in 2002, to 50 percent. In addition, the oblast agreed to ensure
that (i) during each year the health budget as a share of the total budget (including oblast budget,
rayon budgets and municipal budgets) shall be no less than during the previous year; (ii) the actual
health expenditures as a share of total expenditures shall be no less than the health budget as a
share of the total budget for the respective year; and (iii) furnish to the Project CSU adequate
information to monitor compliance with points (i) and (ii).
3.51      Establishment of Consultation, Diagnostic, and Treatment Centers (CDTCs). Family doctors
need ready access to supportive diagnostic services and easy referral links with medical specialists.
Accordingly, funds will be provided for the medical equipment necessary to upgrade six polyclinics to
CDTCs, with preference given to those associated with teaching clinics of the TMA and rayon hospitals
in the project demonstration sites. (See para. 3.8 for further discussion of CDTCs).
Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (Base Cost US$11.2 million)
3.52      This component would introduce changes in clinical practice standards, building on the
recommendations of the federal-level MCH/FP Work Group, and create the physical environment to
support these changes. It is similar in concept to the MCH/FP component of the Kaluga Oblast Sub-



Page 26                                                         Project Objectives and Description
project described in paras. 3.27-3.36, with project inputs tailored to local conditions and priorities in Tver
Oblast. It has five sub-components: antenatal care; Baby-Friendly Hospitals; the Rzhev Inter-rayon
Perinatal Center; and Family Planning and Reproductive Health.
3.53       Antenatal Care. A center to coordinate health promotion and professional training activities
in antenatal care will be established in Maternity Home #5. The center will develop patient education
materials and mass media campaigns, offer antenatal classes for expecting parents, and train obstetrician-
gynecologists and midwives in antenatal care and counseling.  Routine vitamin and iron folate
supplementation for pregnant women will be introduced in the oblast. The supplements will be procured
through the project. A budget of US$700,000 is reserved under this subcomponent for development,
production and dissemination of health promotion materials. Disbursement of these funds as well as
similar funds reserved under the Family Planning Subcomponent (para. 3.60) will be conditioned
on preparation of a five-year strategy for health promotion in MCH and preparation of an action
plan, with detailed budget, for the first year of implementation acceptable to the Bank.
3.54       Baby-Friendly Hospitals.  Baby-friendly hospitals will be created in 20 rayons and five
maternity homes in Tver City through provider training, field visits, and provision of necessary
equipment. Training in basic neonatal resuscitation and basic equipment for resuscitation will be provided
to all participating maternity homes/departments, and further upgrading will be provided in the Neonatal
ICU of the Oblast Children's Hospital and Tver Municipal Children's Hospital #1, which serve as referral
centers for seriously ill babies.
3.55       Rzhev Inter-rayon Perinatal Center. This Center will bring together obstetric and neonatal
functions in one facility that will serve as the primary maternity home and perinatal center for Rzhev city
and as a referral center for nine neighboring rayons. The Center introduces a new organizing concept
of care for high-risk deliveries and seriously ill neonates, with mother and child kept together in the same
facility rather than transferring the sick child from maternity home to children's hospital (para. 3.27).
This approach increases survival chances of new-borns, and reduces duplication of facilities.
3.56       The Center also introduces a regionalized approach to perinatal care that encourages the
treatment of low risk pregnant women and infants in local rayon centers and referral of high risk patients
to perinatal centers. A regionalized system of perinatal care includes:
* Rayon maternity departments.
* Inter-rayon/oblast perinatal centers.
* High-level specialized care in one or two facilities nationwide (not included in the project).
3.57       Once the perinatal center is established (end of year two), about 80 obstetric beds (out of 193
total) will be closed in the surrounding rayons, including closure of three obstetric departments. It is also
expected that as a result of the creation of this center, length of stay for routine pregnancies will decline
and referral rates to Tver city will drop.
3.58       The project will finance necessary civil works, equipment, training, drugs, and supplies for
the establishment and operation of the facility. Civil works have been underway using local funds to
build a new maternity home building in Rzhev, which would be linked to the current facility which dates
to the 1930s. At present, the shell of the new building is in place, but interior works have been stopped
to allow for a redesign of the entire complex.



Project Objectives and Description                                                     Page 27
3.59      The project will finance the completion of civil works at Rhzev according to a new design
that is compatible with western concepts of hospital design as well as modern concepts of perinatal care.
This includes the construction of a small new building to house reception and day-care facilities to
provide diagnostic and follow-up treatments in a low-cost setting. In addition to the integration of
obstetric and neonatal functions, the new design will accommodate rooming-in on a large scale. The new
design will also end the practice of duplicating labor, delivery, surgical, and post-delivery facilities for
"pathology" and normal patients in exchange for several isolation rooms to care for infectious patients.
Equipment and personnel will be shared between the obstetric units to the extent that modern practices
allow, greatly increasing allocative efficiency. In the nursery, capacity will be enhanced to care for all
but the most severely ill babies, the practice of cohorting infants in the nursery will be ended, and the
duplication of facilities for premature and sick, full-term babies will be eliminated. As in the obstetrics
functions, equipment and personnel will be shared between nursery units.
3.60      Family Planning and Reproductive Health. A center to coordinate health promotion and
professional education activities in family planning and reproductive health will be created in Maternity
Home #2. The center will prepare patient education materials and mass media campaigns and organized
training programs for obstetrician-gynecologists and, later in the project, for family physicians and other
providers. A budget of US$700,000 is set aside for health promotion activities under this sub-component,
subject to the same conditionalities as those for antenatal care (para. 3.53). Laboratory capacity will be
enhanced in the same facility for testing for sexually transmitted disease and infertility. A teen center
will be established in the multiprofile polyclinic attached to Municipal Hospital #4, where free
contraceptives will be made available to teens aged 15-21.
Restructuring Provider Incentives (Base Cost US$3.1 million)
3.61      This component would provide support for development and implementation of improved
provider payment, quality assurance and management information systems.
3.62      Provider Payment.  In January 1994, the old budget-based system in hospitals and the
polyclinics attached to them was replaced by a system of paying for finished cases and visits for facilities
financed through the THIF. Because the system was not capped and incentives to promote outpatient care
were not introduced, inpatient expenditures have increased substantially.
3.63      To correct these problems, the Fund has focused on improved recording of cost information
to refine its pricing structure and to better ascertain 'efficient' costs so that limits could be established
on various cost elements. However, both the Oblast Health Authorities and the Fund now recognize that
these changes would not be far-reaching enough to get at the major problem of the hospital-based
orientation of the system and would like to broaden provider payment reform to attain a more balanced
package of incentives for in- and out-patient services. They have now begun working with international
and Russian experts provided through USAID funding and hope to identify their choices and test them
in pilot facilities over the coming year.
3.64      Five pilot sites have been selected to represent conditions at oblast-wide, municipal, and rayon
levels: the Children's Hospital, Polyclinic #1 ("Medsanchast"), and City Hospital and polyclinic #6 in
Tver City; and Central Hospitals and Polyclinics in the Rayons of Kuvshinovo and Vyshny Volochek.
Four of the five sites (excluding the Oblast Children's Hospital) are paid by the THIF. Rayon-wide pilots
are envisaged in Kuvshinovo and Vyshny Volochek Rayons. All these facilities have progressive reform-
minded managers and the capacity and interest to implement payment reforms. Pilot design and testing,
with assistance from USAID-funded experts, is expected to be completed by October 1996. Pilot



Page 28                                                       Project Objectives and Description
activities will be implemented through the first three years of the project. An evaluation of pilot activities
will be carried out in Year 4. By the fifth year of the project, the system will be implemented oblast-
wide.
3.65      Oblast and Fund officials are also receiving TA, training and software under the USAID
program to improve their quality assurance systems. They are particularly interested in developing
quality indicators that can be combined with financial information, and that can be used to assess quality
within individual hospital departments, and for individual institutions, both hospitals and polyclinics. The
computer hardware and software as well as assistance for systems development needed to implement
provider payment and quality assurance systems will be procured as part of the MIS activities in this
component. The project also includes funds for additional TA and training to take place during
implementation, after the USAID project is ended.
3.66      Management Information Systems (MIS). The Territorial Fund, in collaboration with the
Oblast Health Authority, would like to develop a consolidated information system that merges financial,
utilization, practice and demographic information from the level of the individual patient and individual
practitioner up to the oblast level. An Information Processing Center (IPC) in the oblast (to be
established in a facility owned by the Oblast Health Authority) will link the Territorial Fund, the Oblast
Health Authority, and individual facilities in a parallel processing client server network patterned after
similar systems in Samara, St. Petersburg and Kemerovo Oblasts. The system would cover the following
applications: territorial fund financial tracking; provider payment processing; utilization and practice
management; quality assurance; actuarial modeling for development of service and payment norms;
ambulatory care patient registration; hospital discharge; and monitoring project activities.
3.67      Project funds would be used to develop and test the individual applications in 14 different
sites and link them through the IPC. The full set of applications will be tested in the five sites designated
for testing of new provider payment mechanisms (para. 3.64). A more limited set of applications
including mainly administrative functions will be tested in the remaining nine sites. Pilot testing will take
place during the first four years of the project, in parallel with testing of new provider payment and
quality assurance systems. USAID-funded TA has been provided for MIS development, particularly for
design of the pilot phase, but additional funds (US$400,000) are available in the project for development
of custom  application programs.   Project funds will also be used to procure hardware and
telecommunications equipment for the IPC and the 14 participating facilities.
3.68      Once pilot testing is completed, probably starting in the fifth project year, full implementation
of the system in 86 major institutions is planned. Project funds will be used to procure hardware and
software for around 200 workstations in these institutions, and any additional TA for systems
development that may be needed at that time as well as for training of system users.
3.69      Development and implementation of such comprehensive, interactive information systems that
combine clinical, economic, and demographic data and are designed for different uses by multiple
stakeholders in the health system (e.g. governments, insurers, physicians, hospital administrators, etc.)
have often resulted in costly and difficult technical obstacles. The oblast's decision to intensively
experiment in a number of sites prior to more widespread adoption of the system is a sensible one.
Because the introduction of new provider incentives is at the core of the oblast's efforts to improve
the efficiency and quality of health services, completion of detailed plans acceptable to the Bank for
the pilot phase of the Provider Incentives Component, including provider payment and MIS pilots,
will be a condition of disbursement on all components of the Tver Oblast Sub-project.



Project Objectives and Description                                                 Page 29
Part III: National Training Program in Faniily Medicine (Base Cost US$2.8 million)
3.70      An enhanced role for primary care providers is at the heart of restructuring health care
delivery in Russia. To this end, Russia will need to carry out massive retraining of physicians and nurses
already in place, of which there are a few hundred thousand, to upgrade their skills in providing family-
centered health care at the primary level. The study of Family Medicine will also be promoted as a
specialty area open to new graduates in medical faculties. This component would support development
of training programs in family-centered care at the Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy (MMA), the
country's leading training institution in the field of Family Medicine, and in Kaluga and Tver. The
MMA will coordinate closely with the Tver Medical Academy which is responsible for training in Family
Medicine in the Tver Oblast Sub-project. In addition, the MMA will assist Kaluga Oblast in developing
a Training Center for Family Medicine to support implementation of the Family Medicine program under
the component "Delivery System Restructuring" in the Kaluga Oblast Sub-project. The MMA's
association with Tver and Kaluga would help them develop methods of cooperation with oblasts of two
different profiles: those that have Medical Universities with full teaching faculties and facilities (as in
Tver); and those without such Universities (as in Kaluga) where training programs will need to be
adopted to local circumstances and resources.
3.71      The component will have four subcomponents: designing models of family practice well
adopted to Russian circumstances, curriculum and faculty development, including the establishment of
teaching clinics in selected areas throughout the country; establishing standards for quality improvement
and certification; and creating a supportive environment for the practice of Family Medicine in Russia.
All subcomponents will be developed in close conjunction with the two pilot oblasts during the first three
years of the project. After the mid-term evaluation in Year 4, these activities will be disseminated to an
additional six oblasts, either with or without Medical Academies.
3.72      Updating Models of Practice. A conceptual model of professional practice for doctors and
nurses in the field of Family Medicine has been proposed under MOH order number 237 of 26 August
1992 which creates the practice of Family Medicine in Russia. This model draws heavily from
international experience and now needs to be further adapted to Russia's unique cultural and economic
conditions on the basis of practical experience. This experience will be gained as the first graduates of
(re)training programs in Family Medicine return to their practices in 1997 and the next years. The
revised conceptual model would describe the populations to be served by family practitioners, the services
they will provide, their referral relationships with other primary care physicians and with specialists, and
their roles within polyclinics and hospitals. Once defined, revised models of family practice can be used
as guides for developing appropriate training programs, designing supportive work environments,
identifying needed equipment, providing supportive staff, creating appropriate financing mechanisms, and
even shaping public policy.
3.73      Curriculum and Faculty Development. Based on the models of family medicine practice,
model programs for the training and retraining of family doctors and nurses at the undergraduate and
graduate levels will be developed. The training models will define guidelines that can be used by
educational institutions throughout Russia and adapted to local needs and conditions. Guidelines would
include criteria for determining admission policies, educational goals, curricula, teaching materials and
methods, financing mechanisms, and relationships with other medical school faculties. Teaching faculty
who are proficient in the theory and practice of family-centered health care will be prepared. Teaching
materials and resources will be collected, translated, and adapted to local requirements.



Page 30                                                      Project Objectives and Description
3.74      Ouality Improvement and Certification.  A program  will be established to encourage
continuous improvement in the quality of training and the care provided by family doctors and nurses.
The program will include: evaluation of the professional proficiency of family doctors and nurses through
a system of accreditation and certification; accreditation of educational programs; and creation of a
professional association of family practitioners.
3.75      Creating a Supportive Environment.  The task of expanding family-centered health care in
Russia faces numerous challenges, not least of which is raising the status of primary care physicians. To
create a political and social environment that encourages and supports family centered health care, The
MMA will organize a public awareness campaign to popularize family medicine among the public and
health care workers. This campaign will be patterned after similar successful campaigns carried out in
other countries, adopted to Russian circumstances.
3.76      Through the project, the Academy will establish a "partnership" arrangement with a
prominent training institution abroad. This partner institution will of necessity be located in a country
where the teaching of family medicine is considered to be an appropriate model for Russia. During
appraisal, MMA and Tver Medical Academy which also plans to contract international technical
assistance for its Family Medicine Component (para. 3.47) agreed to jointly contract one partner
institution to ensure consistency in their programs and minimize costs. The costs of TA under the
partnership arrangement and smaller free-standing consultancies, study visits and participation in local
and international conferences by faculty in the MMA and other training institutions, and acquisition of
scientific literature and teaching materials will be financed under this component. Finally, support will
be provided for equipment in one teaching clinic each in Moscow and Kaluga. Support for two teaching
clinics in Tver is included under the Family Medicine Component of the Tver Oblast Sub-project.
Participating institutions are expected to take responsibility for renovation of these clinics as part of local
contribution to the project.
Part IV: Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination (Base Cost US$1.4 million)
3.77      This component provides the resources to maximize the multiplier effect expected from the
pilot experience. To fully realize the expected returns to investments in this project, monitoring,
evaluation and dissemination of project results are essential. In such an exercise, three target audiences
are involved. First, the primary beneficiaries of the investment itself, namely the two oblasts and the
MMA, which have an interest in following progress with implementation and the effectiveness of their
investment, most importantly to signal any need for adjustments and corrections as and when it arises.
Second, the MOH which has a responsibility for overall coordination of health reform efforts in the
country, for offering support and guidance to the initiators of reform and for facilitating exchange of
information among the various actors in the sector. Third, other oblasts, organizations, institutions, etc.
in the country, that will want to benefit from the experience of the project's pilot activities and share their
own experiences.
3.78      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  The M&E scheme for the project consists of a
combination of activities including routine data collection and review carried out principally by project
beneficiaries; periodic assessments of project activities and their outcomes carried out jointly by
beneficiaries, the World Bank and third party observers; and population-based surveys to evaluate project
outcomes. Project outcomes will be evaluated in terms of their impact on: (i) quality of services; (ii)
consumer and provider satisfaction with the reforms; (iii) health status; and (iv) cost effectiveness. M&E
activities include:



Project Objectives and Description                                                  Page 31
(a) Routine Monitoring. An implementation plan and a list of indicators to track
progress in implementing activities under each component has been developed.
These lists are attached to the individual component reports and will be included
in the Project Operating Manual. They will be used by component and project
managers on a routine basis to ensure progress and make necessary adjustments.
(b) Monitoring of Key Indicators. A short list of key indicators (Annex 5.1) to be
tracked annually will form the basis for measuring project success. These
indicators have been identified as best representing the most important targets of
individual project components, whether process, output or outcome. All project
beneficiaries agreed (as a legal covenant of the project) to report on the
status of these key indicators to the World Bank on an annual basis.
(c) Year 1 Evaluation. After the first year of implementation, the first complete
review of project activities is planned, to coincide with the Bank's supervision
mission. Questions of implementation capacity and project management will be
the focus of this review.  If any serious problems resulting from  project
complexity have emerged at this stage, project restructuring could be considered.
(d) Mid-Term Evaluation. At the mid-point of project implementation (around three
years after start-up) a more fundamental assessment of overall as well as
component-specific project design, implementation, feasibility, replicability and
sustainability will be carried out. This evaluation would determine (i) the extent
to which the project is meeting its stated objectives; (ii) whether or not the
project design continues to be the appropriate means of achieving those
objectives; and (iii) whether specific implementation issues need to be addressed.
This can serve as another point for restructuring the project if necessary.
(e) Final Evaluation. During the sixth year of project implementation, overall
achievements of the project will be reviewed and its shortcomings assessed. The
evaluation will focus on lessons learned for future projects. In Tver Oblast, the
health status inventory planned for the first year of the project under the CVD
Component will be repeated during the fifth or sixth year to measure changes in
health awareness and health status (para. 3.38(a)).
3.79      Given the critical implications of the mid-term and final reviews for country-wide health
reform, the MOH will take direct responsibility for these activities and has designated the Public Health
Institute NPO MedSocEconomInform (MSEI) to carry this out on its behalf. The mid-term review will
be carried out by a joint-team of local and foreign experts, with the MOH or its representatives (MSEI
and/or others as designated by the Ministry) participating on the local side. MSEI, in consultation with
project beneficiaries and in agreement with the Bank, will organize a team of international experts that
will participate in the mid-term review. MSEI will also participate in the first year review, and carry out
the final project review. TA and related costs for the mid-term and final evaluations of the project are
included under this component.
3.80      Costs of data collection of routine and key project indicators are included in the respective
components and sub-projects as well as the respective Project Management Units, as an indication that
primary responsibility for these activities rests with these units. To unify and standardize M&E activities
in the project as a whole, MSEI will develop a data base for project evaluation (combining monitoring



Page 32                                                         Project Objectives and Description
indicators with data from surveys and other data sources) and organize a training workshop on monitoring
and evaluation methodologies for relevant oblast and MMA staff and annual workshops to review the
status of key indicators and to upgrade evaluation skills. Study visits for oblast, MMA, and MSEI staff
on project evaluation methods will also be organized under this component. Finally, building on its
experience in guiding and participating in M&E activities for this project, MSEI will offer similar
services for other health projects in the country during the second half of the project.
3.81       Dissemination and Replication (D&R). D&R activities have the following objectives: (a) to
disseminate results of pilot activities undertaken under the project to other territories in the Federation;
these activities could include dissemination of results from similar pilots taking place elsewhere in the
country; (b) on the basis of findings of M&E activities, as well as reviews of related activities taking
place in other similar experiments, to determine whether parts or all of the interventions undertaken under
the project or elsewhere can and should be replicated in other parts of the country; and (c) if so, to design
appropriate mechanisms (organizational, financial, technical) by which such replication should take place
and, if appropriate, prepare proposals, or assist interested oblasts/territories in preparing proposals for
funding through federal, local or external funds including a possible follow-up World Bank-assisted
project.
3.82       Dissemination of project experience will be carried out through a series of dissemination
workshops on: (a) the proposed new protocols for MCH developed in Lubertsy during project preparation
(para. 2.5) and adapted for the two pilot oblasts (Year One); (b) preliminary results of provider payment,
MIS and QA pilot activities in Kaluga and Tver (Year Two); (c) workshops on individual project
components and on the project as a whole following the mid-term review. Component support will also
include a semi-annual project bulletin and publications of workshop proceedings. The MOH, through
MSEI, will be directly responsible for these activities. In all cases, MSEI will ensure participation by
project implementing units as well as other research or operational units involved in related projects, so
as to create an environment of collaboration (as well as open debate) in the development of a health
reform program in the country.
3.83       To strengthen its institutional capacity and help it carry out the above M&E and D&R
responsibilities, MSEI will develop a partnership with an international institution with expertise in
monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of similar health reform projects. In addition, it will receive
support for the purchase of computers, software, and internet link-up and library materials.
C. Environmental Aspects
3.84       This is a category "C" project. No adverse environmental impacts are anticipated.
Participating facilities would be required to certify that physical plant meets established federal safety
standards before ordering equipment which is subject to such standards.



Project Management and Implementation                                             Page 33
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1       The Borrower (the Russian Federation) is represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
the Ministry of Health (MOH). The MOF and the MOH would delegate the management and
implementation responsibilities over the Project to the Oblast Administrations of Tver and Kaluga,
Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy (MMA) and to the Public Health Institute MedSocEconomIlnform
(MSEI) of the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH). All project Sub-borrowers are juridically independent
from each other and are located at geographically different parts of the country, which makes it extremely
important to set up a proper structure for overall project coordination and management.
4.2       To provide overall coordination among the four sub-projects, a Project Advisory Committee
(PAC), headed by the First Deputy Minister of MOH, was set up in September 1995. All Sub-borrowers
were represented on this committee and played an active role during the final stage of the project
preparation. In April 1996 a Central Support Unit (CSU), based in Moscow, was established to
coordinate day-to-day project activities and to address jointly issues and problems that may arise regarding
the Bank rules and procedures which are unfamiliar to the project beneficiaries.
4.3      In August 1996, the MOF informed the Bank of Government's decision to merge the
management units for the Medical Equipment Project and for the Health Reform Pilot Project. The
management restructuring process is almost completed. Both units are part of the Russian Health Care
Foundation which was registered at the Federal Ministry of Justice as an independent legal entity on
November 29, 1996. The Director of the CSU is a Deputy to the General Director of the Foundation
with signing authority on HRPP documents. The Foundation would have two Special Accounts, one for
each project. The CSU would be responsible for the day-to-day coordination of project activities with the
participating oblasts, MMA and MSEI; coordinating and managing procurement; arranging TA for
supervision of all civil works contracts financed out of the loan proceeds under ICB and NCB procedures;
maintaining the HRPP Special Account and managing all disbursements under the proposed project; and
complying with the reporting and auditing requirements detailed in the Loan Agreement. Given the
geographic dispersion of the beneficiaries, the CSU would also serve as a common liaison channel with
the World Bank and generator of the project reports to be submitted to the Bank. Terms-of-Reference of
the CSU are described in detail in Annex 3. A draft of the Foundation Organizational Manual, an internal
document describing the relationship between the two units; division of responsibilities between the
General Director of the Foundation and the HRPP Director; Foundation staffing, including the shared
services (accounting, disbursement) has been prepared by a consultant financed out of PHRD funds and
is currently under Bank and Government review. The mechanism of CSU financing, including payment
of taxes, has been discussed with the Ministry of Finance and it was agreed that the MOF would
reimburse the CSU for taxes and duties expenditures related to Project implementation. Draft of Project
Coordination Agreement between the Russian Health Care Foundation and the Federal Government was
discussed at negotiations. Signing of the Project Coordination Agreement between the Russian Health
Care Foundation and Federal Government is a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.4       The Advisory Committee has been renamed the Health Reform Steering Committee and would
act as an advisory body for the Project. It consists of the representatives of the following agencies: MOH
Division of Medical Care for the Population, MOH Division of Cooperation with WHO and other
International Organizations, MedSocEconomInform, Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy, Federal Health
Insurance Fund, Chairman of the Tver Oblast Project Coordination Committee, Chairman of the Kaluga



Page 34                                              Project Management and Implementation
Oblast Project Coordination Committee, Tver THIF, Kaluga THIF and Tver Medical Academy. Terms
of Reference are described in Annex 3.2.
4.5       The project management structure is shown on Chart 4.1.
B. Management in the Project Oblasts
4.6       Implementation of the Kaluga and Tver sub-projects would be the responsibility of the Oblast
Administration of each oblast. Management teams in each oblast consist of a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) and a Project Management Unit (PMU). The PCC would carry out general supervision
of sub-project implementation. Committee membership consists of high-ranking oblast health officials
who led respective component teams in the design and preparation of sub-project components. They
would be responsible for the development of methodology, resolving conceptual questions and any
necessary updating/adjusting of component design as sub-project implementation proceeds. The PCC
would be chaired by the Deputy Governor responsible for the social and/or health sector of each Oblast.
4.7       PMUs would coordinate the day-to-day implementation of sub-project components. Each
PMU would be established based on the Governor's decree and would have independent juridical status.
The PMU Director would report to the Chairman of the PCC. PMU staff, all working full time on the
project, would consist of component coordinators (one per component), civil engineers for the period
of construction works carried out under the project, an accountant and support staff. Component
coordinators would work closely with and under the supervision of the corresponding members of the
Oblast Project Coordination Committee.
C. Management at the Federal Level
4.8       Federal level sub-projects, viz. the National Family Medicine Program and the Monitoring,
Evaluation, and Dissemination Component, would be implemented respectively by the Moscow Sechenov
Medical Academy and MedSocEconomIlnform. Implementation of the National Family Medicine Program
is based in the Faculty of Family Medicine and would be carried out in close cooperation with Tver
Medical Academy and Kaluga Health Department. The MMA's Component coordinator would manage
the Family Medicine Sub-project. MMA staff would be reassigned to carry out all the activities planned
for this component, no additional staff is required for Sub-project management. Similarly, MSEI has
sufficient institutional capacity to implement the MED Component, and only one full time coordinator
would be appointed as a consultant to MSEI for overall component coordination and management. MSEI
staff involved in component development and preparation would continue to be responsible for its
'implementation.
D. Project Implementation Responsibilities
4.9       Institutional as well as individual responsibilities for implementation of project components
and activities are summarized in Annex 3.



CHART4.1: PROJECTMANAGEMENTSTRCTURE
|Health Reform Pilot                     
Project                                                             s
,|Advisory Committee li
,-          ~ ~ ~~~~/             \                                                    -
,'                   /                       \                   " 
-                         /                              \                         s
KalugaSub-projectTver Sub-project             I    National Family            Monitoring, Evaluation
Kaluga Sub-project       I  Tve                          MedicinrProgra
~~~~~Medicine Program                    l    & Dissemination    l
latAdministration     0blast Administration          Moscow Medical              MedSocEconInform
Oblast Admlristatn   t  Oblas/ Adminisiral 72         |       Academy                       MOHMI
Central Support
Unit
(CSU)                                                             #



Page 36                                              Project Management and Implementation
E. Status of Preparation
4.10      During technical discussions held in March 1997 prior to negotiations, an agreement was
reached on the final design and estimated cost of all project activities and the project's financing plan.
At negotiations, MOF, MOH and Project Beneficiaries have agreed on the terms of the loan funds
transfer. Drafts of on-lending agreements for both oblasts have been prepared and discussed at
negotiations. The Federal Government has confirmed that loan funds would be passed on as grants to
federal level beneficiaries (including the CSU).
4.11      All key actions required to ensure timely start-up of implementation of the Project have been
completed prior to negotiations. The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) approved by the Bank in July
1996 was countersigned by the Government and authorization from the MOF for opening of the Special
Account for the PPF has been obtained. The Central Support Unit and oblast Project Management Units
have been established as independent juridical entities and recruitment of key personnel is underway.
Three major contracts for in-country training during the first year of implementation have been signed
between the Oblast Health departments and respective national training institutions. Short list and bidding
documents for selection of the procurement consulting firm have been prepared by the Borrower and
submitted to the Bank for no-objection. Letters of Invitation for two major institutional partnerships
scheduled to start during the first year of implementation (for the Family Medicine, and Monitoring and
Evaluation components) have been sent to the short listed firms and institutions. Proposals for the latter
component have already been received. Technical documents for civil works on the Rzhev Inter-rayon
perinatal center in Tver Oblast have been prepared by the Borrower and passed to the Bank for no-
objection. The complete bidding documents would be prepared by the procurement consulting firm after
its selection and contract signing.
4.12      Equipment and drug lists for the various project activities have been prepared by the project
Beneficiaries and now are being reviewed by the Bank. According to the project's implementation
schedule, procurement of goods would start only in the second year of the project. Preparation of the first
set of bidding documents is not anticipated until March-April, 1998.
4.13      A Japan Grant Facility has been available for project preparation. It will continue to be used
to speed up project start-up activities. A PPF in the amount of US$ 729,000 is available to start the
project implementation.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                                                      Page 37
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
5.1          The total project cost is estimated at US$98.4 million equivalent which includes duties and
taxes estimated at US$15.2 million. The estimated cost and foreign exchange by components are shown
in Table 5.1 below. Detailed cost estimates by type of expenditure are given in Annex 3.7.
Table 5.1: Suummary of Project Costs by Component
(in US$ million)          Foreign    Base Costs
Local      Foreign     Total     Cost (%)      (%)
I. KALUGA OBLAST HEALTH REFORM                              24.1        20.1       44.2        45%         50%
A. Delivery System Restructuring               14.2        11.1       25.3        44%        28% 7
B. Provider Incentives                         4.6         1.4         6.0       23 %         7%
C. MCH                                         4.8         6.4        11.2        57%        13%
D. Project Management Unit                     0.5         1.2         1.7       68%          2%
11. TVER OBLAST HEALTH REFORM                               17.1        20.8       38.0        55%         43%
A. Cardiovascular Health                       4.2         8.5        12.7        67%        14%
B. Family Medicine                             4.2         5.0        9.2         54%        10%
C. MCH                                         6.5         4.6        11.2        42%        13%
D. Provider Incentives                         1.7         1.5         3.2       47%          4%
E. Project Management Unit                     0.5         1.2         1.7        68%         2%
111. NATIONAL FAMILYMEDICINE PROGRAM                         1.1         1.7        2.8        61%         2%
IV. MONITORING, EVALUATION & DISSEMINATION                   0.4         1.0        1.4        66%         2%
V. CENTRAL SUPPORT UNIT                                     2.3         0.5         2.8        18%         3%
Total BASE COSTS      45.0        44.1       89.1        49%        100%
Physical Contingencies                                      2.4         1.9         4.3        45%         5%
Price Contingencies**                                       2.5         2.6         5.1        51%         6%
Total PROJECT COSTS        49.8        48.6       98.4        49%        111%
Taxes and Duties                                            15.2         -          15.2                   17%
Total COSTS EXCL.TAXES & DUTIES                                     _              83.2
* Figures may not total due to rounding
** Price contingencies are based on base cost plus physical contingencies



Page 38                                  Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
Basis of Cost Estimates
5.2       Project costs have been estimated in US dollars because of the difficulty in forecasting
inflation rates for local currency. The costs for Civil Works, Goods (medical, laboratory, office
equipment, pharmaceuticals, furniture, vehicles and supplies) and Services, including local and overseas
training have been based on current prices and recent fees paid in similar projects financed by the Bank
and other donor agencies in the Russian Federation. Costs for foreign consulting and technical services
have been estimated on the basis of the cost of fees, accommodation and subsistence in the Russian
Federation and include fees, subsistence, transportation, and other miscellaneous fees. Cost estimates for
local fees and salaries, translation and interpretation services, health promotion programs, local training
and other operating costs have been based on current costs or costing standards provided by the Moscow
Sechenov Medical Academy (MMA) and the Health Administrations of the Oblasts participating in the
project which were found acceptable by Bank staff. Base cost estimates reflect prices in August 1996.
Foreign Exchange Component
5.3       The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) civil works, 25 %; (b) medical
and computer equipment; spare parts and supplies, 90 %; (c) pharmaceuticals, 80 %; (d) foreign consulting
and technical services, overseas study tours and fellowships, 100%; (e) local consulting services and
locally conducted training, 0%; (f) local health promotion programs, 25%; (g) local seminars and
workshops, 10%; and (h) incremental operating costs, 40%. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$48.6 million including contingencies, or 49% of total project costs.
Contingency Allowances
5.4       Physical contingencies, representing about 5 % of the total base cost of the project, were based
on 15% for civil works and 5% for goods and services (except for funds for local health promotion
programs, incentive payments and pharmaceuticals for which no contingencies were allocated). Price
contingencies represent about 6% of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Contingencies are
expressed in US dollars with the following annual inflation rates: 1997, 3.8%; 1998, 3.0%; 1999, 2.5%;
2000, 2.3%; 2001, 2.5%; and 2002, 2.0%.
Taxes and Customs Duties
5.5       The proposed project would be subject to taxes and duties at the rates in effect at the time
of delivery of goods and/or services provided. Medical equipment, ambulances and drugs are currently
exempt from Value Added Taxes (VAT) but subject to 5 % import taxes. Other goods financed under the
project would be subject to customs duties and taxes as follows: 24.5% on civil works and goods (office
and other equipment, vehicles and other supplies); 41 % on local salaries including health and
unemployment insurance and pension contribution; and 40.5% personal income tax on short term local
consulting services. For foreign consultants, due to the short term assignments (less than 183 days per
annum), local tax is not expected to be applicable.
5.6       The current tax liability of the project (US$15.2 million) is based on the above described
expectations. However, it is recognized that the current tax legislation may change. The CSU would
monitor changes, if any, in rates and collection procedures related to duties and taxes. All Sub-borrowers
would have full responsibility for financing all duties and taxes related to the their respective sub-projects
including any increase in project tax liabilities above the current estimated amount.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                                    Page 39
B. Project Financing
5.7        The total project cost is estimated at US$98.4 million including duties and taxes estimated
at about US$15.2 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$48.6 million
representing about 49% of the total project cost or 58% of the project cost net of duties and taxes. The
proposed loan of US$66.0 million would finance 93 % of the foreign exchange cost and 59 % of local cost
excluding duties and taxes. The two participating oblasts and the Federal Government would finance a
total of US$32.4 million equivalent (or about 33 % of total project costs which include the estimated duties
and taxes). Table 5.2 is the proposed financing plan for the project.
Table 5.2: Financing Plan
Foreign Exchange    Local Costs     Total Project Costs
US$ M         US$ M          US$ M          %Project
Goverrnment Federal                       0.2           1.1             1.3           1%
(MMA, MSEI, CSU)
Kaluga Oblast Administration              1.9           17.3           19.2           20%
Tver Oblast Administration                1.2           10.6           11.8           12%
World Bank                               45.3     !    20.8            66.0           67%
TOTAL       48.6           49.8           98.4    J     100%
Figures may not total due to rounding
Includes duties and taxes of US$15.2 million equivalent
5.8        The loan would finance 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex factory
cost and 83% of expenditures for locally procured medical equipment, pharmaceuticals and reagents;
office equipment and vehicles; 100% of consulting and technical services, training (including overseas
study tours and fellowships); seminars and conferences; health promotion programs; incentive payments
to medical care providers in Kaluga Oblast; all investment and operating costs to set up and run the CSU;
and investment costs to set up oblast PMUs. Sub-borrowers would finance all duties and taxes and would
also contribute 100% of local staff salaries; office fuirniture; operating and maintenance costs for facilities,
vehicles and office equipment; and civil works with the following exceptions which would be financed
out of the proceeds of the loan:
(a) Kaluga Sub-project, Delivery System Restructuring component: construction of
11 new offices for family physicians in Kaluga City ( 7 % of all civil works under
the Project);
(b) Kaluga Sub-project, MCH component: renovation of Kaluga Municipal and
Oblast maternity homes ( 5 % of all civil works under the Project);
(c) Tver Sub-project, MCH component: construction and remodeling of Rzhev
Inter-rayon Perinatal Center (23% of all civil works under the Project).



Page 40                                 Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
Incremental Operating Costs
5.9       The loan would finance incremental recurrent costs for: (a) operation and maintenance of
medical equipment and ambulances acquired under the project (US$5.2 million); (b) the CSU (US$2.8
mnillion) for staff and consultant fees, office rent, minor office renovation and maintenance, minor office
equipment and supplies, office furniture, staff training and operational travel, training materials,
translation of training materials and project documents, maintenance of office equipment, communications
(including international telephone, electronic mail and facsimile transmissions), and a vehicle operation
and maintenance; and (c) Kaluga and Tver oblasts PMU (US$1.7 million each) for staff and consultant
fees, minor office equipment and supplies, furniture, staff training and business travel, training materials,
translation of training materials and project documents, and a vehicle operation and maintenance.
5.10 The respective Sub-borrowers would finance incremental operating cost for: (a) operation and
maintenance of office equipment and vehicles acquired under the project (US$13.2 million); (b) salaries
of additional personnel of medical facilities, health promotion and information centers involved in
implementation of project activities in Kaluga and Tver oblasts (US$2.5 million).
Counterpart Funds
5.11   To ensure timely budgetary provision of adequate counterpart funds, the oblast contributions
would be monitored as part of project reviews (i.e., quarterly progress reports and during Bank
supervision missions). Since successful and timely implementation of the sub-projects in the oblasts
depends, to a large extent, on the timely availability of budgetary resources to finance local contributions,
including customs duties and taxes, special arrangements would be made for the advance deposit of
counterpart funds. Kaluga and Tver Oblast authorities have agreed to transfer to the CSU Project
Account on the 25th of each month the amount required for the next following month; the amount
due would be notified by the CSU to the Oblast PMU on the 25th of the previous month. Monthly
replenishment of the CSU Project Account by both participating oblasts is a legal covenant of the
project. The first oblast to sign a subsidiary loan agreement (Oblast Agreement) is to deposit
US$15,000 equivalent into the CSU Project Account as a condition of loan effectiveness. This is to
ensure that sufficient local funds are available for the first quarter of project implementation.
Further, each oblast first quarter deposit is a condition of disbursement on all components of
respective sub-projects.
On-Lending Arrangements
5.12   The Government, through the Ministry of Finance, would on-lend Bank funds to the Kaluga and
Tver Oblast Administrations. On-lending arrangements would be reflected in Oblast Agreements between
the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health and the two oblasts. Each oblast would be responsible for
repaying 50% of the funds received at a variable rate of interest of 2.5 percent above the World Bank's
lending rate in fourteen years, including six years of grace. Repayment obligations are denominated in
US dollars. Drafts of Oblast Agreements have been reviewed at negotiations. Signing of at least one
Oblast Agreement acceptable to the Bank between a participating oblast and the Federal
Government and signing of an administrative agreement acceptable to the Bank between the RHCF
and the respective Oblast Administration are conditions of loan effectiveness. These actions will also
satisfy the conditions of sub-project disbursement. The oblast not completing these actions prior to
effectiveness would have to meet these requirements as disbursement conditions.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                           Page 41
C. Procurement
Implementing Agencies
5.13   The Central Support Unit (CSU) would be responsible for the administration of all procurement
financed from the loan proceeds on behalf of the two oblasts, MMA and MSEI. The CSU, as a single
channel liaison with the Bank, would communicate with the Bank on procurement matters and actions
requiring Bank review. A Procurement Consulting Firm (para. 5.22) would assist the CSU in all aspects
of the procurement of civil works, goods, and services (as applicable), including assisting the CSU in
arranging for the customs clearance and distribution of the goods to the end users.
Summary of Procurement Procedures
5.14   All Civil Works, Goods and Services to be financed under the loan would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January
1995 (revised January and August 1996) and Guidelines - Use of Consultants by the World Bank and
by the World Bank as an Executing Agency dated August 1981. Standard Bidding Documents for Works,
Goods, and Form of Contracts (Services) issued by the Bank would be used as appropriate. The Bank'
Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works, National Competitive Bidding (Small Works), dated
September, 1995 would be used for all NCB packages, and for Pharmaceuticals procured utilizing ICB
procedures the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines,
dated September, 1993 would be used. Civil works, goods and services would be grouped to the extent
possible to encourage-competitive bidding. All arrangements related to procurement of services (TA and
training) would be administered by the CSU with assistance and input from oblasts PMUs. Procurement
procedures are outlined in Table 5.3 and described below.  Initial packaging is reflected in the
procurement plan in Annex 3.6 and would be further refined after the Procurement Consulting Firm is
mobilized.
5.15   Procurement of civil works, goods and services not financed from the loan proceeds (i.e. Not
Bank Financed - NBF), estimated at US$7.9 million equivalent, would be carried out in accordance with
project beneficiaries' respective procedures.
Civil Works
5.16   Civil works with financing from the proceeds of the loan (US$4.8 million, including US$3.8
million loan financing) would be procured as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for the construction, remodeling
and equipping the Rzhev Inter-rayon Perinatal Center (Tver Sub-project, MCH
Component). It was agreed that a combined contract for civil works and supply of
appropriate goods would be used to avoid coordination problems and delays. This one
contract would represent about 63% of total civil works (US$2.3 million) and 5%
(US$2.2 million) of total goods financed from the loan.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be used for the procurement of civil works
under US$1.0 million equivalent. Included would be two bid packages of two contracts
each as follows: 2 contracts for construction of 11 family physician offices (Kaluga Sub-
project, Delivery System Restructuring component) with an estimated cost of US$0.4
million equivalent per contract; and 2 contracts for renovation of oblast and municipal



Page 42                                Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
maternity homes (Kaluga Sub-project, MCH component), with an estimated cost of
US$0.3 million equivalent per contract. These four bid packages at an estimated cost of
US$1.7 million would represent about 37% of the civil works financed from the loan.
International contractors are unlikely to be interested in such small contracts, but if
interested could participate.
Procurement of Goods
5.17   Goods (US$43.3 million) consisting of medical equipment and supplies; pharmaceuticals;
computer, office equipment and software for medical facilities and health promotion centers; ambulances
and other medical vehicles; training materials, etc. would be procured as described below. All lists of
goods and proposed grouping for procurement purposes would be subject to review by the Bank. A
preliminary schedule and packaging of goods is given in Annex 3.6
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for packages
above US$300,000 equivalent for an estimated total cost of US$36.2 million
(90% of total goods). Thirteen bid packages are planned under ICB, including
four for pharmaceuticals and two for ambulances and other vehicles.
b) Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures would be permitted for purchases
estimated to cost an aggregate of US$2.1 million (5 % of total goods). LIB would
be used for specialized purchases such as endoscopic and ultrasonic medical
equipment where few qualified suppliers are available. About four bid packages
are anticipated using LIB procedures with an average value of US$0.5 million.
(c) International Shopping (IS) procedures may be used for contracts up to
US$300,000 for an estimated aggregate total cost of US$0.8 million (2% of total
goods). IS would be used for the procurement of medical training equipment (2
contracts totalling US$60,000); a specialized software compatible with locally
available equipment for Provider Payment Components in Kaluga and Tver sub-
projects; office and computer equipment and 5 office vehicles for the CSU, and
oblast PMUs (4 contracts totalling US$290,000, including US$60,000 for
vehicles for PMUs); and radio dispatch equipment for an Emergency Ambulance
Center in Tver and oblast maternity home in Kaluga (one bid package,
US$280,000).
(d) National Shopping (NS) procedures may be used for contracts up to US$50,000
equivalent for an aggregate total of US$1.3 million (3% of total goods) for the
procurement of locally available, off-the-shelf items of small value. Items to be
procured would consist of office equipment; training materials; supplies; spare
parts and other maintenance items. In case of training materials a refined estimate
of each contract would be determined at the time of Bank's review of semi-
annual action plans for training with detailed budgets.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                                              Page 43
Table 5.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ Millions)*
Project Element                     Procurement Method                  NBF**           Total
ICB           NCB            Other
1. Civil Works                      -               -                                           12.7
(3.8)
New Construction                   3.0             1.0                            -             4.0
(2.4)         (0.8)                                         (3.2)
Renovation                                         0.7                           7.9            8.6
(0.6)                                        (0.6)
2. Goods                                                                                        41.2
(37.1)
Medical Equipment, Vehicles        27.6                           2.2                           29.8
(25.7)                        (2.0)al                       (27.7)
Pharmaceuticals                    5.7                             -                            5.7
(5.5)                                                       (5.5)
Training Materials                  -                             1.0             -             1.0
(0Q.8)b   _                   (0.8)
Office/Computer Equipment and      3.1                            0.6             1.0           4.7
Furniture                          (2.6)           _             (0.5)c'                        (3.1)
3. Services                                                                                     22.5
(19.7)
Technical Assistance and            .                             17.2            -             17.2
Contractual Services                                            (15.1)d'                       (15.1)
Local Training and Study tours       -              -             5.3             -             5.3
(4.6)"                        (4.6)
4. Health Promotion Prozrams         -              -             3.8             .             3.8
(3.3)f    _                   (3.3)
5. Incentive payments to            -               -             1.8             -             1.8
providers (Kaluea oblast)                                       (1.4)"1                        (1.4)
6. Facilities Operating and          -              -              -             15.7           15.7
Maintenance Costs, incl.staff                                                   (0.0)           (0.0)
salaries
7. PPF Refinancine                   -              -             0.7             -             0.7
(0.7)hi                       (0.7)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:               39.4            1.7            32.7           24.6           98.4
TOTAL BANK FINANCED:              (36.2)          (1.4)          (28.4)          (0.0)         (66.0)
Figures may not total due to rounding. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the World Bank.
*Including price and physical contingencies, taxes and duties;



Page 44                                         Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
**   Non-Bank Financed (NBF): includes US$8.74 million of civil works, US$1.0 million of furniture, US$2.5 million of staff
salaries; and US$13.5 million of facilities and office equipment operating and maintenance costs;
a/  Includes Limited International Bidding (US$2.2 million) for endoscopic and ultrasonic equipment.
b/  It is estimated that a total of US$1.0 million for preparation, publishing, copying and dissemination of training materials
would be procured under NS procedures. A refined estimate of each contract would be determined by the Bank on an
annual basis at the time of Bank's review of project components's annual action plans with detailed budgets.
c/  Includes International Shopping for US$0.22 million for procurement of a specially designed software compatible with
locally available equipment (Kaluga and Tver Provider Payments components), and US$0.28 million for a procurement
of a radio dispatch equipment for Tver Ambulance Center.
d/  Includes Short List for US$8.9 million for TA (approximately 20 contracts) and for US$8.0 million for Contractual
Services (medical equipment maintenance); 2 minor contracts (up to US$20,000) under DC with Moscow Institute of
Prevention to analyze lipid measuring results, and 1 contract (up to US$100,000) under DC with Moscow Medical
Academy to continue activities related to establishment of a training center for family medicine in Kaluga.
e/  Includes US$1.2 million (approximately 35 contracts) for study tours and 2 fellowships (US$0.1 million). In-country
training (totally US$4.0 million) would be arranged by the CSU and oblast PMUs, reimbursement by SOE;
f/   A refined estimate, nature of each contract and procurement method would be determined at the time of Bank's review
of annual plans and detailed budget for Health Promotion Programs.
g/   As described in para 3.24.
h/  Includes Short Lists for TA (US$0.4 million), study tours and training (US$0.2 million.) and National Shopping (US$0.1
million, 5 contracts) for training, office equipment and vehicles to set up the CSU and oblasts PMUs.
(d) Direct Contracting (DC) procedures may be used for the procurement of goods,
where required goods are proprietary and obtainable from only one source and
after review by the Bank. Goods, yet to be identified, consisting of certain
medical supplies, reagents, consumables, spare parts and training materials (up
to an aggregate of US$3.0 million, 7% of total goods) are expected to be
included under this procedure.
(e) Procurementfrom  UN Agencies. Should it be determined that procurement of
medical equipment, and supplies and pharmaceuticals could be carried out in a
more efficient and effective way from UNICEF or other UN Agencies, then such
procedure could be used, subject to prior review by the Bank.
5.18        Procurement of goods, financed from  the proceeds of the loan to be provided to the NBF
facilities (civil works), would be coordinated with the scheduled completion of those facilities. The CSU,
assisted by the Procurement Consulting Firm and oblast PMUs would be responsible for maintaining an
up-to-date schedule for completion of required work for each NBF facility and, based upon this
information, would closely monitor and adjust the schedule of equipment procurement and final delivery
to the facilities.
5.19        Special attention would be required to the procurement of pharmaceuticals included in the
project since they would be procured once every two years with financing from the loan (US$5.5
million). The list of eligible drugs, to be reviewed by the Bank, would specify only generic names of the
drugs required, and all drugs would require registration in the Russian Federation. Also, the drugs
financed under the proposed project would have to be registered in their own country of manufacture and
authorization certificates from all original manufactures would be required. Drugs would be in standard
formulation in agreed packages and no non-standard pack and mini powder bulk materials will be
permitted.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                               Page 45
Preference for Domestic Manufactured Goods
5.20      For contracts for goods to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, as set forth
in the Loan Agreement, grant a margin preference of 15% or the amount of applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufactures of goods in accordance with the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines (January 1995 - revised January 1996). Where appropriate, the technical
specifications of the equipment and the procurement packages would be designed so as not to preclude
domestic manufacturers from competing. It is anticipated that Russian suppliers and/or manufactures
would be competitive for the supply of goods.
Procurement of Consulting, Technical and Contractual Services
5.21      The proposed project includes about 125 person-years for consulting services (US$7.1
million) for Consulting and Technical Services and about US$6.9 million for Contractual Services related
to the medical equipment maintenance. All consultants would be hired on terms and conditions (including
review of their qualifications) in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Details of proposed consulting services and drafts of TORs would be included in the Project Operational
Manual which is being prepared by the project beneficiaries.
5.22      Procurement Services. A Procurement Consulting Firm would be hired based on competitive
bids from short listed finns. The selected firm would be represented by a full time manager for the
project who would report to the CSU Director and would assist in the administration of the procurement
of the works, goods (and services where applicable). Responsibilities of the Procurement Consulting Firm
would include, inter alia, establishment of a computerized management and monitoring reporting system;
finalization of preparation of all bidding documents for works and goods financed under the loan and
including assistance in arranging for customs clearance and in-country transportation to the end-users.
This firm would maintain the management and information system and would record all procurement
(works, goods and related services) included in the project, including the consolidation of quarterly
progress reports.
5.23      Architectural and Engineering (AIE) Services. For civil works in Kaluga and Tver Oblasts,
the Procurement Consulting Firm, as part of its services, would provide the necessary specialists for the
preparation of bidding documents for civil works (financed from the loan). An Engineer/Advisor would
be contracted by the CSU to assist oblasts in civil works supervision to the completion of the works.
Kaluga and Tver oblast PMUs would be staffed with a civil engineer to ensure a close monitoring and
quality control over the construction works. In the case of the Rzhev Perinatal Inter-rayon Center, the
design is being done by the local Architectural/Engineering Institute under the Tver oblast financing.
During contract execution the same firm could provide supervision/advisory assistance to the PMU
financed under the loan on a sole source basis, assuming satisfactory performance during the
preparation/design phase, and if the oblast chooses to do so.
5.24      Academic and Institutional Partnership. Consultants for the academic partnership under the
Family Medicine component of Tver oblast Sub-project and National Family Medicine Component would
be limited to established Medical Teaching Institutions with academic programs similar to those to be
established under the proposed project. Moscow Medical Academy (MMA) which has been establishing
an institutional partnership with Kaluga oblast to set up a training center for family medicine would be
contracted on a sole source basis ($100,000). Consultants for the institutional partnership under the
Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination Component would be limited to academic, research or similar
institutions with in-house experience in monitoring and evaluation of health projects or health reforms.



Page 46                                Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
Training
5.25      For locally conducted and overseas training, and study tours (US$4.6 million) financed from
the proceeds of the loan, the qualifications of candidates along with their course of study, proposed
training institutions and costs would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Candidates would be
selected on the basis of established criteria, to be prepared by the project beneficiaries with assistance
from the CSU, and to be agreed upon with the Bank.The CSU would administer all overseas training and
study tours and assist project beneficiaries in arranging in-country training. Local (within oblast) training
would be administered by the respective PMUs. Annex 4.1 describes training to be financed under the
project.
Incentive Payments to Medical Providers
5.26      Under the Provider Incentives component, Kaluga Sub-project, an "incentive payment pool"
of US$1.4 million equivalent would be established for primary care physicians and nurses. Kaluga Oblast
would develop detailed plans for the new payment system, including regulations on the implementation
and management of the incentive pool, which would be subject to Bank review (para 3.24).
Health Promotion Programs
5.27      The Health Promotion Programs (US$3.3 million equivalent) would be financed from the
proceeds of the loan, using National Shopping procedures up to a limit of US$3.3 million. The funds
would be reserved for antenatal care and family planning sub-components under MCH components in
both Tver and Kaluga Oblasts (US$ 2.3 million), and for health promotion campaigns directed towards
prevention of CVD under the Cardiovascular Health Services Component in Tver Oblast (US$1.0
million). The funds would be used to cover costs (including TA) of development, production and
dissemination of health promotion materials and purchase of TV/radio broadcasting time. Should
equipment items under the health promotion campaigns be required, such as video cameras, projectors,
LCD panels, etc., the list would be submitted to the Bank at the time of annual action plans and budget
reviews, including proposed procurement procedures, a refined estimate and nature of each contract.
Notification of Business Opportunities
5.28      A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is scheduled to be published in the April 30, 1997
edition of the UN publication "Development Business" and, as appropriate, would be updated and
published annually thereafter. For goods and civil works to be obtained by ICB, individual bidding
opportunities would be advertised in a major local newspapers 30 days prior to availability of bidding
opportunities and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding in response to the
published General Procurement Notice. These advertisements would be in the English language.
Assistance to Contractors and Suppliers
5.29      The CSU would organize and conduct workshops as necessary for all interested contractors
and suppliers that have purchased bidding documents on the methodology of completing bidding
documents.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                            Page 47
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
5.30      A PPF in the amount of US$729,000 (No.P295-0-RU of July 11, 1996) has been provided
to the Government to advance project preparation consisting of: (a) setting up of the CSU and the Oblast
PMUs; (b) consulting services and training; and (c) initial payment for a Procurement Consulting Firm
to assist in the preparation of bidding documents for civil works to be financed from the proceeds of the
loan during the first year of the project.
Review By The Bank of Procurement Decisions
5.31      Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed
procurement plan (Annex 3.6) for the project would be reviewed by the CSU and PMUs, and the Bank
would be advised of any proposed modifications for its review in accordance with the provision of
paragraph 1 of Annex 1 of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Procurement of all works, goods and
services would be undertaken in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which would be adjusted
as appropriate and included as a part of the quarterly progress reports and would be subject to Bank
review.
5.32      Prior Review: (a) Civil Works and Goods. Prior review of bidding documents, including
review of evaluations and recommendations for award of contracts, would be carried out for all
procurement utilizing ICB, LIB and NCB procedures; and for all documents and recommendations
involving direct contracting. Accordingly, 100% (US$3.8 million) of procurement of civil works and
about 96% (US$35.8 million) of procurement of goods transactions would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. The list of goods and drugs to be procured would also be subject to prior review by the Bank.
(b) Consulting and Contractual Services. Terms of reference of all consulting assignments would be
subject to prior Bank review. Terms and conditions of contracts, invitation packages and evaluation
reports of assignments costing more than US$50,000 each for individual consultants, and US$100,000
each for firms would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All documents and recommendations
involving sole source contracting would also be subject to prior review as well. Accordingly, about 96%
(US$19.7 million) of these transactions would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
5.33      After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions
of a contract result in an increase above 15% of the original price, the Bank would reserve the right to
the prior review of such modifications (including the modifications in contracts for Consulting Services).
5.34      Post review. In respect of each contract not covered by the above, review would be carried
out in accordance with para 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and would also
be reviewed during the Bank's supervision missions.
Procurement Monitoring and Reporting
5.35      Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows: (a) the Procurement
Consulting Firm would be responsible under the direction of the CSU for preparing a master procurement
plan (updated quarterly), and establishing and maintaining a computerized monitoring and reporting
system that would provide an up-to-date inventory of goods and works procured under ICB, LIB and
NCB, consolidated and delivered to the end-users; (b) the CSU would prepare comprehensive quarterly
reports to the Bank on behalf of and with inputs from the Sub-borrowers indicating, inter alia: (i) revised
cost estimates for individual contracts; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including



Page 48                                Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
advertisements, bids dates, contract awards, and completion dates for individual contracts; and (iii)
compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
5.36      All project Sub-borrowers would prepare semi-annual schedules for training programs with
appropriate details. The CSU would consolidate the reports and submit them to the Bank to facilitate the
review process.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
5.37      A draft of CPAR for the Russian Federation was prepared in December, 1996 and is currently
being discussed with the Government. For this proposed project, the Borrower would follow agreed Bank
procurement procedures (in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines) as described above and as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
D. Disbursement
5.38     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of six years which includes six months
for finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard
disbursement profile for the Russian Federation, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's
experience in financing similar health projects in other countries and is based on a detailed work program
which Bank staff consider realistic. The Project Completion Date would be October 31, 2003 with a
Loan Closing Date of April 30, 2004. The estimated disbursement schedule and chart are given in
Annex 3.8.
Disbursement Percentages
5.39      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in accordance with procedures described in the
Bank's "Disbursement Handbook". The Disbursement Categories and Percentage of Expenditures to be
Financed and the Estimated Schedule of IBRD Loan Disbursements are shown in Tables 5.4 and 5.5
below.
5.40      Disbursement of funds for health promotion programs would be carried out based on a
detailed plan and budget for annual activities prepared by the health promotion centers in each
participating oblast and approved by the Head of the Oblast Project Coordination Committee and the
Bank.
5.41      Disbursements for all the contracts would be made against full documentation with the
following exceptions where certified statement of expenditures (SOE's) would be used:
*  expenditures under contracts for goods valued at or less than US$100,000;
*  expenditures under contracts for individual consultants valued at or less than
US$50,000;
*  expenditures under contracts for consulting firms valued at or less than
US$100,000;
*  in-country training and study tours valued at or less than US$10,000 per trip per
person;
*  operating costs.



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                            Page 49
5.42      Disbursement/procurement documents using SOE procedures would be retained by the CSU
for a period of at least two years after disbursement and made available to Bank staff and external
auditors. Oblasts PMUs may keep a set of copies for their respective sub-projects for easier reference.
The CSU would be handling all financial issues on behalf of and based on authorization from the Moscow
Medical Academy and MSEI, and would retain a full set of supporting documentation for their
respective sub-projects.
Special Account
5.43      To facilitate payments of small and medium size amounts in foreign currency and all
payments in local currency, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars would be opened in a commercial bank,
selected by the Government on the basis of competitive shopping, acceptable to the Bank. The selection
process and criteria would follow the Bank's standardized procedure (i.e. competitive shopping). The
SA would be in the name of the Borrower and would be administered by the CSU of the RHIF which
would be designated to be a coordinating agency to gather documents, reconcile the SA and submit
applications for replenishment to the Bank. During the early stage of the project implementation, the
initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$1.0 million. However, when the
aggregate disbursement under the Loan have reached the level of US$5.0 million, the initial allocation
may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$1.5 million by submitting the relevant Application
for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The CSU would
establish an appropriate accounting system to provide information on the project on the proper receipt
and use of funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The CSU would be responsible for providing
assistance to the PMU's accountants in maintaining sub-project accounts for counterpart funds and
appropriate financial documentation.
5.44      Though signing authority for all contracts would rest with respective Sub-borrowers, the
CSU, upon request and based on written authorization of Sub-Borrowers, may sign contracts on their
behalf. In all cases the CSU would make appropriate payments for the goods and services procured out
of the loan funds and/or authorize the Bank to pay some contractors directly and would manage all
disbursements under the proposed project. The minimum application size for payments directly from the
loan account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20% of the special account authorized allocation.
Minimum application size until aggregate disbursements reach US$5.0 million would be US$200,000;
thereafter, it will be US$300,000. In case of small payments in local currency (i.e. travel advances for
in-country training, monthly operating costs) a respective Sub-Borrower would either make payments
in full out of its own funds and would send a request for reimbursement with a full set of supporting
documents to the CSU or the CSU would transfer an advance in local currency to the PMU account
against provided cost estimates. The CSU would check the claimed expenditures for the compliance with
the project's tasks and would process a reimbursement from the SA or arrange an advance payment from
the CSU Project Account (in local currency) to the PMU account.
E. Reporting
Quarterly Progress Reporting
5.45      Quarterly progress reports covering all project components would be prepared by the PMUs
and consolidated by the CSU, which would send them to the Bank within one month of the end of each
quarter. The format of the reports would be mutually agreed upon prior to the date of the first submission



Page 50                                          Project Costs, Financing,Procurement and Disbursement
and would be modified as necessary during implementation of the project. The purpose of the reports
would be to provide the Bank and the Sub-Borrowers with timely information on implementation of all
project components and lessons learned. The CSU would set up reporting guidelines and deadlines for
the receipt of information from all project PMUs in order to prepare a consolidated report. The first
report would be issued before the first Bank supervision mission. The reports would include, inter-alia:
(a) progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules and key performance
indicators, including number of contracts awarded and status of all contracts; (b) work programs and cost
estimates for the coming quarter; (c) status of compliance with covenants and major agreements under
the project; (d) update on monitoring and evaluation indicators; (e) a description of issues and problem
areas along with recommended corrective actions; (f) a description of progress in resolving previous
problems and addressing earlier recommendations; and (g) status of the Special Account.
5.46        The CSU would be responsible for translation of all reports into English for submission to
the Bank.
Accounts and Audits
5.47        The CSU would establish an accounting and control system which would have the capability
to record and retrieve all financial transactions associated with the project in a timely manner and comply
with internationally accepted accounting standards. The CSU would maintain consolidated accounts for
the project and would ensure appropriate accounting of the funds provided under the loan separate for
each Sub-Borrower. Each PMU would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided
by the respective Sub-Borrower. The CSU would prepare quarterly financial reports, and ensure that
audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank on time. The accounts would be
maintained for all loan funds. The CSU would be responsible for providing assistance to the PMU's
accountants in maintaining sub-project accounts and appropriate financial documentation.
Table: 5.4 Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan
(US$ million equivalent)
Percent of expenditure
Category                  Amount of Loan                     to be financed
1. Civil works*                                   3.8                              83%
2. Goods                                                       (a, b) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures ex factory cost and 83 % of expenditures
(a) Equipment, Vehicles;                          30.6         for locally procured items.
(b) Pharmaceuticals;                              5.5                           (c) 100%
(c) Training Materials                            0.8
3. Services:
(a) Consulting and Contractual Services:          12.6                            100%
(b) Training (incl.Seminars/Conferences):         4.6
4. Incentive Payments                              1.4                            100%
5 Health Promotion Funds                          3.3                             100%
6. CSU Operating Costs:                           2.7                             100%
7. PPF Refmancing:                                0.7          Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan
Total                           66.0                            100%
Figures may not total due to rounding             * For eligible works as described in para. 5.8



Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement                            Page 51
Table 5.5 Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
Bank Fiscal Year     FY98      FY99      FY00     FY01      FY02      FY03     FY04
Annual                2.7       8.7      17.8      17.6      9.5       6.7      3.0
Cumulative (US$       2.7      11.4      29.2      46.8      56.3     63.0      66.0
Million)                    I         I_I_I_I_I
5.48      These project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited in accordance with
the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank ", March
1982. The audit report would be of such scope and details as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, for SOEs against
which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the loan and SOEs which would
be included in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements. The audited financial
statements for the Special Account, project accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statements of
expenditures, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal
year. Timely submission of audit reports would be a covenant of the project. Funds to carry out the
audits have been included in the project.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
5.49      The CSU would prepare in conjunction with the Bank, an ICR upon completion of the Project
and in any event not later than six months after final disbursement of the loan proceeds. Included in the
ICR would be an assessment on the execution and initial operation of the project, costs and benefits
derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in the
project regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments, and including lessons learned. The
ICR would also include plans for the future operation of the facilities which had been financed under the
project, including the indicators for monitoring and evaluating future operations.



Page 52                                                                Justification and Risks
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
Project Concept
6.1       This project is built on the premise that health outcomes and client satisfaction can improve
significantly in Russia, even with health expenditures remaining within current and expected resource
constraints. These improvements could be attained through selective investments to renew the stock of
physical and human capital in the system and through major restructuring of the health system in all its
aspects - clinical, financial, organizational and managerial - in such a way as to use the available
resources more efficiently. Experience has shown that a health system that favors prevention over cure,
general (or primary) care over specialized care, and outpatient over inpatient care, performs more
efficiently in the long run. This fundamental principle drives the investment choices that have been made
in the project and shapes the reform that is being undertaken.
Choice of Project Components
6.2       The project concentrates on three generic types of components: (i) changing provider
incentives; (ii) restructuring the health care system in favor of outpatient care and Family Medicine; and
(iii) improving clinical practices. The underlying strategic choice was to focus on systemic interventions
that could trigger changes whose benefits would extend beyond the immediate reach of project
investments and beyond the project lifetime.
6.3       Changing Provider Incentives. The new provider payment systems to be introduced under
the project would aim to promote primary care, eliminate unnecessary referrals to specialists, reduce
hospital admissions, and reduce lengths of stay in hospitals. This would be accomplished by changing
current input-based payment methods to performance- or output-based methods. A fundholding system
with the primary provider as fundholder - either for outpatient services only or for all services including
hospital care - would encourage family physicians to offer as broad a range of services as possible and
cut down unnecessary referrals to diagnostic facilities or to hospitals. Case-based hospital payment
systems would reduce average length of stay and encourage overall efficiency.
6.4       Experiments in the late 1980s in Kemerovo Oblast and St. Petersburg showed that
fundholding combined with case-based hospital payments successfully reduced hospital admissions and
average length of stay, and allowed a reduction in the number of hospital beds. In Kemerovo, hospital
admissions were ten percent lower in 1989 than in 1987. Bed capacity declined by 1,500 beds, with a
substantial shift in structure of hospital units. In St. Petersburg, hospital admissions fell by five percent
during the same period. About 2,500 beds became unnecessary, and some hospitals were restructured
into nursing homes. The average length of stay fell from 19 to 17 days. Bed allocations by unit also
changed. In the Kemerovo and St. Petersburg experiments, fundholding was done by the polyclinic
(which included primary care providers and outpatient specialists), rather than the primary care provider.
The present project would experiment with bringing fundholding one level further down in the system,
hopefully encouraging further reductions in referrals. Case-based hospital payment schedules would also
be refined to further encourage cost-effective case management.
6.5       An alternative payment mechanism for hospitals - global budgeting adjusted for case-mix,
severity and volume of services - will also be tested under the project. This would combine the
advantages of a global budgeting system that puts a direct cap on overall hospital costs with a



Justification and Risks                                                                  Page 53
performance-based system which encourages cost-effectiveness and efficiency. Applied in tandem with
a fundholding system for outpatient care, this would prevent the potential loss of cost control often
identified with a shift to performance-based payment systems.
6.6       Investments in institutional structures to strengthen quality assurance would help ensure that
the quality of care is protected under the pressures of cost-cutting. New management information systems
would support these QA systems as well as financial and other management requirements of payment
reform and a restructured delivery system.
6.7        Restructuring the Delivery System. Quality of care in Russia cannot improve substantially
unless physical and human capital are restored after years of neglect. Project investments in equipment,
training and civil works would improve the effectiveness of care and, therefore, both outcomes and
consumer satisfaction. Given limitations on available resources in the system, selectivity in the choice
of investments is an essential feature of the project. Because these investments are concentrated on
primary and secondary levels of care, they address a wider range of health needs and reach a larger share
of the population than past investments which tended to favor specialist and inpatient services. The focus
on Family Medicine is especially crucial to building a credible primary care system that could keep a
larger number of clients at the lowest-cost end of the system, while still satisfying quality requirements.
The concept of the Consultation, Diagnosis and Treatment Center (CDTC) as support to the primary
provider would reinforce the latter's role.  In addition, better-equipped (though not excessively
sophisticated) CDTCs would keep patients out of hospitals as long as possible. Training of staff and
managers of the concerned facilities will include not just new techniques related to new equipment, but
also the new relations that need to exist among facilities and caregivers, and the corresponding flow of
patients and flow of funds that should differ significantly from the current situation. Training for primary
providers, combined with the new incentive system, will encourage a greater reliance on preventive
measures.
6.8       Improving Clinical Practice. Clinical practices that are out-of-date and/or not cost-conscious
are a critical systemic problem in Russia, cutting across all fields of medicine. Besides the direct benefit
to the quality and effectiveness of specific services, the collective exercise of improving clinical practices
in all fields is an essential step in designing restructured incentive systems, delivery networks, and many
other components of health reform. The tasks of updating standards of clinical practice and undertaking
the necessary investments in human and physical capital to retool the system accordingly are immense.
They can only be accomplished over years or even decades. Maternal and Child Health (MCH) and
Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) have been selected as illustrative cases for this exercise and it is hoped
that the approach applied under the project to these two selected fields will stimulate similar initiatives
in other fields of clinical practice. In this respect, project investments are justified not just for their direct
effects on maternal, infant, or cardiovascular health, but also for their value in demonstrating approaches
to changing clinical practice.
6.9        The choice of MCH and CVD was the result of informed judgement that took into account
a variety of factors: the overall burden of disease; the scope for improving current clinical approaches;
the potential costs of these improvements per Disability-Adjusted Life-Year (DALY) saved; the potential
for packaging groups of relatively cost-effective interventions in a shared delivery mechanisms (as with
reproductive health services for women); and the opportunity to establish patterns of change that could
transfer to other areas of care (especially the shift of emphasis to preventive measures, the stress on basic
emergency services, and the limited use of high-tech equipment or interventions).



Page 54                                                                             Justification and Risks
6.10        Statistics on causes of mortality in Russia place cardiovascular disease as the primary cause
of death in Russia and perinatal mortality at ninth position.   Adjusting for years-of-potential-life-lost
(YPLL) brings cardiovascular disease to second position (after traumas and poisoning) and perinatal
mortality to fourth position (after neoplasms).t'
Table 6.1: Crude Death Rates and Years of Potential Life Lost
by Disease Group, 1990 and 1991
Rank by       Rank by
Disease Group            CDR 1990    YPLL 1990   YPLL 1991            CDR           YPLL
All Causes                         1,116.8        117.0            n.a.                                l
Cardiovascular                       618.7         25.2           25.8          1             2
Neoplasms                            194.4         18.9           19.1         2              3
Trauma/Poisoning                     133.3         39.8           42.5         3              1
Respiratory                           59.4          6.7            6.5         4              5
Gastrointestinal                      28.7          3.0            3.0         5              8
Ill-defined                           21.7          2.0            n.a.        6              9
Infectious                            12.1          3.8            3.6         7              7
Genitourinary                         11.4          1.3            1.3         8              10
Perinatal                              7.2          8.1            7.2         9              4
Congenital Anomalies                   7.2          4.9            4.7         10             6
Endocrine                              7.0          0.8            0.9         11             11
Source:     Chernichovsky, Potapchik, Barnum Tulchinsky, 'Russia: Reform of the Health System" (Draft), October 4, 1994.
Note:       Crude death rates are per 100,000 population; YPLL is per 1,000 population. Rank is for both 1990 and 1991.
n.a.        Not applicable.
--          Not available.
CDR         Crude death rate.
YPLL        Years of potential life lost.
Although maternal mortality is not among the top ten on the list, women's reproductive health has a direct
(though unmeasured) impact on infant health. In addition, because the available studies rely on mortality
statistics, they do not take account of the effects on women's mental and physical health of the excessive
reliance on abortion as a means of family planning nor of their effect on infertility, a major health issue
in Russia. Hence infant mortality and cardiovascular disease are major elements of the burden of disease
in Russia, with maternal morbidity probably playing an important role.
6' See also Komarov, Ermakov and Semyonova, "Loss of Working Potential in Countries of the NIS"; and Kingkade and
Torrey, "The Evolving Demography of Aging in the United States and the Former USSR", World Health Quarterly,
45:15-28, 1992.



Justification and Risks                                                                Page 55
6.11      To complete the cost-effectiveness analysis needed to assess priorities for investment,
information on the costs of specific interventions per Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) saved would
be needed. Such information is not currently available for Russia. Even if actual cost data were
available, valid cost-effectiveness comparisons cannot be done using cost information derived from
delivery systems that are patently inefficient. However, both MCH and CVD represent areas of care in
Russia where known lower-cost approaches to care (e.g., prevention, contraception, ante-natal services,
basic emergency services) are often bypassed for expensive, sophisticated approaches on the one hand
or approaches that are simply out-of-date on the other hand. Hence the new clinical practices could
reasonably be expected to result in better quality care at lower cost than current practices are providing.
It should be noted that interventions selected for the CVD component - in particular the support for
preventive interventions as well as the restructuring of the emergency system - are multi-purpose
interventions that affect other priorities in the disease burden, notably traumas and poisoning which is
at the top of the list.
Rationale for Public Sector Involvement
6.12      Imperfections and failures in the health care market (externalities, uncertainty, asymmetry of
information, market power) as well as societal equity considerations are arguments used to justify public
sector involvement in health care. The form of involvement by the public sector differs among countries
- with varying degrees of involvement in financing, provision and regulation - and there is not always
clear evidence for preferring one form over another. In most cases, the historical context out of which
the contemporary system evolved plays a dominant role in determining reform priorities and possibilities.
But there is growing convergence towards certain models that have proven more robust than others.
6.13      Public financing of health care is primarily motivated by equity considerations. Russia has
made the choice to continue funding health through government budgets and an earmarked payroll tax,
and through these sources, to guarantee universal access to a certain standard of care. The significance
of this social/political choice cannot be underestimated. Although the Soviet system was noted for its
wide geographic access, rationing did take place particularly at the higher end of the system where
"informal" cash payments tended to be larger and where one's place on the queue was determined by
one's connections. A public guarantee of universal access under a new economic regime that tends to
widen economic inequality would represent a major pillar in any new system of social protection. In
making the choice for public financing the public sector also takes on responsibility for ensuring that these
funds are used cost-effectively and that the costs of guaranteed entitlements are sustainable within fiscal
limits and within limits set on the payroll tax burden. Provider-payment mechanisms, if appropriately
designed, are potent tools to accomplish both the equity and efficiency objectives of public financing.
In Russia, provider payment is particularly important because of the lack of financial and other incentives
for efficiency and accountability under the old Soviet system.
6.14      Many personal health services can be provided efficiently by the private sector once an
appropriate incentive structure and regulatory framework are in place. The Russian Government has
taken the first steps in the long road to privatization by separating the functions of financing and provision
within the health care system, introducing elements of competition into the market (e.g., choice of
provider and insurance company) and decentralizing certain budget decisions to the level of the facility.
In order for providers to function as fully independent economic units, further reforms are required to
stabilize the new financing sources, clarify provider payment rules, develop accountability and managerial
skills among providers, and create the appropriate regulatory framework for both the health insurance
industry and providers. Reforms supported by the project would further these goals. Beyond these
changes, and outside the scope of the present project, mechanisms for transferring ownership of facilities



Page 56                                                                Justification and Risks
from the public to the private sector (or transferring responsibility for asset management and financing
to the semi-public sector, as in the case of the self-governing Hospital Trusts in the UK) will eventually
need to be developed.
6.15      Finally, although provision of public health services are often considered the domain of the
public sector, this project introduces an approach to the funding of health promotion activities - through
the establishment of health promotion funds for MCH and CVD - that opens the possibility for sub-
contracting such activities to the private sector.
Focus on the Oblast
6.16      The choice of the oblast as the focus of the project was both strategic and opportunistic. The
initial focus of project preparation was a set of nine priority programs organized under the initiative of
the MOH, with each effectively approached as a vertical program under separate leadership within the
federal structure. However, within a few months of preparation, it became evident that decentralization
of financing and management of care to the oblasts had shifted the locus of reform from the federal to
the local level. In addition, while federal institutions like the MOH struggled to redefine their new roles
(especially with the MOH having lost responsibility for service delivery but gained new responsibility for
medical industries), oblast authorities had no choice but to continue services under highly unstable
circumstances and were hence more receptive to reform.
6.17      The choice to work with the oblasts having been made, a number of high-priority issues are
wholly or largely excluded from this project because they require significant intervention at the federal
level. Among them are: regulation of the health insurance industry; development of federal level
institutions; financing, distribution and use of pharmaceuticals; and multi-sectoral public health programs.
They would, however, be high priority choices for future Bank funding.
Choice of Pilot Approach
6.18      Almost every intervention in the project involves a change in the way of doing business in
the health sector. Although studiously drawn from successful experience in other countries, and carefully
adapted to local conditions, there is little real-world experience to judge how they would turn out when
actually applied in Russia. In addition to uncertainties about implementation feasibility and expected
effectiveness, there is little real-world (i.e., in Russia) basis for predicting the costs or sustainability of
the interventions proposed. Best efforts have been made to estimate recurrent costs of the new outpatient-
based system to be introduced in Kaluga, using common international standards (para 6.24), and
assumptions are made about how providers will change behavior in response to new incentives.
However, these assumptions need to be verified by actual experience.  Hence the choice of the pilot
approach.
6.19      The project also tests an approach to health reform that is centered on local-level authorities.
The experience of two oblasts managing broad-ranging reform, and the types of support required to help
them accomplish their objectives, should provide valuable lessons that could be replicated in other parts
of the country. The two national-level components in the project - the National Family Medicine
Program and the Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination Component - demonstrate ways in which
assistance from federal level institutions can help enhance the oblasts' chances of success, and hopefully
would lead to a better definition of roles for federal-level institutions in the decentralized system.



Justification and Risks                                                                  Page 57
6.20       The Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination (MED) Component of the project is an
essential element of the pilot approach. Lessons learned from this pilot could form the basis for future
projects. If the pilot experience is successful and concrete criteria can be defined for future selection of
projects, subsequent projects could be financed through a funding facility that would be more flexible and
easier to implement than the present project. It is hoped that preparation and supervision costs, as well
as initial start-up and overhead costs of subsequent projects would be reduced and that a larger number
of oblasts could be included under such a funding mechanism. The role of the MOH (represented by
MSEI) as implementing agency for the MED Component is thus critical not just for purposes of the
present project but as a vehicle to channel lessons from the pilot to the rest of the country.
Summary of Project Benefits
6.21       Project benefits will accrue at two levels.  At the oblast level: (a) better quality health
services, greater consumer satisfaction, and improvements in health outcomes both during and after the
project for the populations of Kaluga and Tver; (b) more stable and transparent mechanism for public
financing of services to improve equity of access especially at the primary and secondary levels of care;
(c) more cost-effective health care systems able to produce better outcomes at current and expected
resource levels; and (d) stronger, more efficient health institutions, including individual health facilities,
Oblast Health Authorities, and Territorial Health Insurance Funds. For the country as a whole: (a) the
experience of two oblasts in implementing experimental reform measures in an internally consistent,
integrated fashion; (b) a stronger national capacity to monitor, evaluate and disseminate similar
experiments in health reform; and (c) a stronger national capacity to train Family Physicians.
6.22       The full impact of the project on health outcomes, both during and after the project life, is
impossible to quantify or predict. Targets for measurable changes in health outcomes in MCH and CVD
have been set (Annex 5.1) but, for reasons noted above, these are theoretical targets not based on actual
experience. The effects of system restructuring on cost-effectiveness is also difficult to quantify. In
Kaluga oblast, a 20 percent reduction in the number of beds in participating hospitals is planned during
the life of the project. However, focus group discussions with physicians in two participating rayon
hospitals in Kaluga indicated that up to 43 percent of cases could be moved to an outpatient setting,
assuming the appropriate care is made available on an outpatient basis. Hence the potential for continued
restructuring beyond the project lifetime is substantial, assuming that the improved and expanded
outpatient services are maintained. In effect, the full project impact is expected to exceed the direct
benefits from specific investments (in MCH, CVD, Family Practices, etc.) as a result of systemic changes
introduced through the project and the demonstration effect they would have within and beyond the two
pilot oblasts.
Sustainability and Fiscal Impact of the Project
6.23       The sustainability of health services in Russia is a central focus of the Project. Output-driven
incentive systems (with built-in caps to contain overall costs), outpatient-oriented care, and more efficient
and cost-conscious clinical practices all aim at defining a publicly-guaranteed package of services that is
affordable in the long run. However, while the restructuring from inpatient to outpatient care or from
ineffective to more cost-effective clinical practices takes place, the health system will go through a
transitional period of increased recurrent cost requirements. These increased costs result because: (i)
outpatient services must expand in range and improve in quality to replace inpatient care; (ii) badly-
needed quality improvements in inpatient services will involve higher recurrent costs and (iii) the fixed
costs of inpatient services are high and reductions in bed-days do not easily convert into full potential
savings until corresponding facility closings and staff retrenchment can take place.



Page 58                                                                      Justification and Risks
Table 6.2: Physicians' Assessment of Percent of Inpatient Cases that
Could Move to an Outpatient Setting, Kaluga
Oblast
Ferzikovsky Rayon                    Maloyaroslavsky Rayon
Patients that                         Patients that
Could be Moved                        Could be Moved
Department       No. of Discharged     to Outpatient    No. of Discharged    to Outpatient
Patients           Setting (%)         Patients          Setting (%)
GP Dept.                  848                 35.4               1265               48.6
Surgery Dept.             567                 34.0               1032               18.4
Pediatrics                309                 56.0                501               90.8
Gynecology and
Obstetrics Dept.          656                 56.4               1309               38.2
Total               2380                 43.5               4107               42.9
Source: Memo from Dan Sherman and Victoria Golding re "Analysis of Data Obtained in Kaluga", April 13, 1995
6.24       Estimates prepared for the Kaluga Oblast Delivery System Restructuring Component indicate
a net increase. - by the end of the project period - of 43 percent in recurrent cost requirements in the
project areas (consisting of a 56 percent increase in Kaluga Municipality and a 13 percent increase in the
five project rayons) resulting directly from project investments. This reflects the net effect of increased
operating costs of enhanced outpatient services and limited quality enhancements in inpatient services,
and reduced operating costs resulting from bed closures. Increased requirements in Kaluga Municipality
are especially high because project investments include improvements in the Kaluga Municipal Hospital,
which accounts for 40 percent of the projected total recurrent cost requirements for the Municipality.
In addition, the Municipality requires a larger number of new primary care practices to attain the target
level of coverage and reduce dependence on specialists, which has been high historically because of the
wide presence of specialists in the oblast capital. Assuming that rayon and municipal health budgets grow
at the same rate as real output in the oblast - currently projected to grow by 37 percent between the years
1995 and 20032' - it is not unrealistic to expect that these additional recurrent costs can be absorbed by
the rayons and municipality if accompanied by further reductions in inpatient care and continued
improvements in overall efficiency in the long run.
6.25       From an oblast-wide perspective, the project's fiscal impact is less problematic. Table 6.3
shows the estimated fiscal impact of incremental recurrent costs generated by each oblast sub-project,
including all sub-project components but excluding sub-project management costs. These estimates
2'  In the absence of oblast-specific growth projections, the Bank's projections for changes in real output in Russia as a
whole are used.



Justification and Risks                                                              Page 59
indicate that by 2002, when the full impact of project investments would be in effect, incremental
recurrent costs would constitute 3.40 percent of Kaluga's total projected health expenditures from public
sources (including expenditures from the Health Insurance Fund). In Tver, incremental recurrent costs
would be 0.82 percent of total health expenditures. There is clearly much room for reallocation of
resources from within the overall health budgets of the oblasts to sustain the project in the long run.
6.26      Finally, Table 6.4 and Table 6.5 show the projected impact on oblast budgets of debt
repayment obligations resulting from the project.  These estimates are made using the following
assumptions on on-lending conditions: (i) only half of the loan amounts ($15 million per oblast) will be
on-lent to the oblast by the federal government; (ii) the repayment period is 14 years, with a grace period
of six years and the on-lending rate is 9.48% (a 2.5 percentage points spread over the Bank's rate).
These terms have been agreed upon between MOF and participating oblasts during the loan negotiations.
The tables show that, under these terms, repayment obligations would at no time exceed one percent of
projected total oblast budgets, with or without Health Insurance Fund revenues, for Kaluga and Tver
Oblasts.
B. Project Risks
6.27      This is a high risk project. It is experimental in nature, involving substantial changes in
multiple dimensions of health care delivery, and taking place in a highly uncertain social, political and
economic context. The evolving situation with respect to governance structures in the sector is an
important part of this uncertain environment. The unstable fiscal positions of the participating oblasts
present the risk of shortfalls in resources to pay for additional recurrent costs required to improve the
quality of care. In addition, although individual sub-projects have been pared down in size and
complexity, the project's overall structure remains complex, with essentially two separate (sub)projects,
plus two federal-level components. The beneficiary institutions' lack of experience with standard project
procurement, accounting, and management procedures will add to the difficulties of implementation.
6.28      Risks associated with the experimental and reform-oriented nature of the project are mitigated
by strong ownership at the two oblasts where the project enjoys full support of oblast leadership including
managers of the Ob!ast Administration, Oblast Health Authorities and Territorial Health Insurance Funds.
The participatory process applied during preparation, with active involvement of the various teams that
would implement project activities, increases the chances of achieving well-coordinated projects and a
committed constituency. In addition, a close, mutually supportive, relationship has developed between
the two oblasts, resulting from jointly held activities during preparation (preparation workshops, training
seminars). The oblasts are now exploring possibilities for sharing TA experts and continuing joint
training programs during implementation. At the same time, because each oblast sub-project would be
implemented by different management teams, the managerial load would be reduced. The CSU is
designed in such a way as to support oblast PMUs without depriving them of their autonomy in both
project and loan management. Finally, first-year and mid-term project reviews will focus on any
problems resulting from project complexity and/or limited implementation capacity and may recommend
project restructuring if necessary.



Table 6.3: Fiscal Impact of Incremental Recurrent Cost Flows, Generated by Health Reform Pilot Project
Oblast                                                     Indicators                                         1997        1998        1999      2000       2001      2002
Kaluga Oblast         (Al) Net recurrent cost for region, SM                                                      0.0        0.5         1.8       2.3        4.0       4.1
(A2) Estimated health expenditures of enlarged regional budget (*), $M                    92.6        97.9     103.40      109.3      115.5    122.0
(A3) Estimated health expenditures of regional budget, SM                                  69.2       73.1       77.2       81.6       86.2     91.1
Ratio of net recurrent cost to health expenditures of enlarged regional budget (Al :A2)   0.02        0.47   /    1.75      2.10       3.45     3.40
Ratio of net recurrent cost to health expenditures of regional budget (AI:A3)             0.02        0.63       2.34       2.81       4.62     4.55
Tver Oblast           (BI) Net recumnt cost for region, $M                                                        0.0        0.2         0.7       0.8        1.5       1.6
(B2) Estimated health expenditures of enlarged regional budget, SM                        149.6      158.1      167.0      176.5      186.4    197.0
(B3) Estimated health expenditures of regional budget, SM                                 111.6      117.9      124.6      131.7      139.1    147.0
Ratio of net recurrent cost to health expenditures of enlarged regional budget (Bl :B2)   0.03        0.12       0.40      0.43        0.82     0.82
Ratio of net recurrent cost to health expenditures of regional budget (Bl:B3)             0.01        0.39       1.45       1.74       2.86     2 82
() Enlarged regional budget includes budget of the THIF
_.



Justification and Risks                                                               Page 61
Table 6.4: Debt Servicing Capacity for the Loan to Kaluga Oblast
Total commitment ($ M)          30
Principal payback (50%), ($ M)  15
Term of the loan, years         14
Grace period, years             6
Base bank interest rate, %      6.98
On-lent interest, % annually    9.48
Debt to Revenues Ratios (%)
Estimated Revenues
Estimated Revenues   of Regional Budget   Debt to Revenues Ratios (%)
Debt     of Enlarged Regional   Net Transfers and
Year       Repayment         Budget               Loans        To Enlarged Budget To Regional
l_____________    ($ M)           ($ M)                ($ M)            of the Region    Budget
(1)             (2)                 (3)          (4)=(l):(2)*100  (5)=(1):(3)*100
1997         0.00            492.36              361.43             0.00             0.00
1998         0.01            520.21              381.87             0.00             0.00
1999         0.23            549.64              403.47             0.04             0.06
2000         0.75            580.73              426.29             0.13             0.18
2001          1.08           613.57              450.41             0.18             0.24
2002          1.28           648.28              475.89             0.20             0.27
2003         2.80            688.90              505.70             0.41             0.55
2004         2.80            720.59              528.96             0.39             0.53
2005         2.80            753.73              553.30             0.37             0.51
2006         2.80            788.41              578.75             0.36             0.48
2007         2.80            824.67              605.37             0.34             0.46
2008         2.80            862.61              633.22             0.32             0.44
2009         2.80            902.29              662.34             0.31             0.42
2010         2.80            943.79              692.81             0.30             0.40
TOTAL            25.75           9889.77             7259.81
Average                                                                  0.26            0.35



Page 62                                                                    Justification and Risks
Table 6.5: Debt Servicing Capacity for the Loan to Tver Oblast
Total commitment ($ M)           30
Principal payback (50%), ($ M)   15
Term of the loan, years          14
Grace period, years              6
Base bank interest rate, %       6.98
On-lent interest, % annually     9.48
||   Debt to Revenues Ratios (%)
Estimated Revenues
Estimated Revenues   of Regional Budget    Debt to Revenues Ratios (%)
Debt     of Enlarged Regional   Net Transfers and
Year       Repayment         Budget                Loans         To Enlarged Budget To Regional
($ M)           ($ M)                ($ M)             of the Region     Budget
(1)             (2)                  (3)         (4)=(1):(2)*100  (5)=(1):(3)*10
0
1997         0.00            697.48               538.64             0.00             0.00
1998         0.12            736.94               569.11             0.02             0.02
1999          0.50           778.62               601.30              0.06            0.08
2000          1.02           822.66               635.32              0.12            0.16
2001          1.27           869.20               671.25              0.15            0.19
2002          1.36           918.36               709.22              0.15            0.19
2003          2.74           975.90               753.66              0.28            0.36
2004          2.76           1020.80              788.33              0.27            0.35
2005          2.76           1067.75              824.59              0.26            0.34
2006          2.76           1116.87              862.52              0.25            0.32
2007          2.76           1168.24              902.20              0.24            0.31
2008          2.76           1221.98              943.70              0.23            0.29
2009          2.76           1278.19              987.11              0.22            0.28
2010          2.76           1336.99              1032.51             0.21            0.27
TOTAL             26.35          14009.99             10819.45
Average                                                                   0.19             0.24



Agreements Reached and Recommendations                                           Page 63
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01 Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Signing of Project Coordination Agreement between the Russian Health Care
Foundation and Federal Government (para. 4.3).
(b) Signing of at least one subsidiary agreement (Oblast Agreement) acceptable to the
Bank between a participating oblast and the Federal Government; deposit of
US$15,000 equivalent into the CSU Account by that oblast to fund local
contributions for the first quarter of implementation; and signing of an
administrative agreement acceptable to the Bank between the RHCF and the
respective Oblast administration (paras. 5.11 and 5.12).
7.02   Conditions of Disbursement
(a) For the Kaluga and Tver Oblast Sub-projects, respectively: signing of an Oblast
Agreement acceptable to the Bank between the oblast and the Federal
Government; deposit of $15,000 into the CSU Account by that oblast to fund
local contributions for the first quarter of implementation; and signing of an
administrative agreement acceptable to the Bank between the RHCF and the
Oblast Administration (paras. 5.11 and 5.12).
(b) For the Kaluga Oblast Sub-project: completion of detailed plans acceptable to the
Bank for the pilot phase of the Provider Incentives Component, including plans
for implementation and regulation of the incentive payment pool (para. 3.24).
(c) For the Tver Oblast Sub-project: completion of detailed plans acceptable to the
Bank for the pilot phase of the Provider Incentives Component, including
provider payment and MIS pilots (para. 3.69).
(d) For health promotion funds under the Kaluga and Tver MCH Components and
the Tver CVD Component: preparation of a five-year strategy for health
promotion in MCH/CVD and an action plan, with detailed budget, for the first
year of implementation, acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.36, 3.38, and 3.53).
7.03   Covenants
(a) Kaluga and Tver Oblast authorities agreed to increase recurrent expenditures for
outpatient services as a share of total oblast recurrent expenditures for health
(including THIF and oblast budget expenditures) to at least the following levels:
in 1999, 35 percent; in 2000, 40 percent; in 2001, 45 percent, and in 2002, 50
percent. In addition, the oblasts agreed to ensure that (i) during each year the
health budget as a share of the total budget (including oblast budget, rayon



Page 64                                           Agreements Reached and Recommendations
budgets and municipal budgets) shall be no less than during the previous year;
(ii) the actual health expenditures as a share of total expenditures shall be no less
than the health budget as a share of the total budget for the respective year; ahd
(iii) furnish to the Project CSU adequate information to monitor compliance with
points (i) and (ii) (paras. 3.18 and 3.50).
(b) All project beneficiaries agreed to report to the World Bank on an annual basis
on the status of the key indicators listed in Annex 5.1 (para. 3.78).
(c) Kaluga and Tver Oblast authorities agreed to transfer to the CSU Project Account
on the 25th of each month the amount required for the next following month; the
amount due will have been notified by the CSU to the Oblast PMU on the 25th
of the previous month (para. 5.11).
(d) The Government agreed to provide the IBRD, within six months of the end of
each Government fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and details as
the IBRD may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an
independent auditor acceptable to the IBRD, on disbursements against certified
SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether SOEs submitted during the
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications
(para. 5.48).



ANNEX 1.1                                                                                 Page 65
ANNEX 1.1: Socioeconomic and Health Status in Kaluga and Tver
1.        This annex provides a brief picture of the socioeconomic and health conditions of Kaluga and Tver
oblasts. Additional information on the oblasts can be found in the project files.
Background
2.        Both Kaluga and Tver oblasts are located in Central Russia, within 200 kilometers of Moscow. The
capital city of each oblast has a long history, dating to the Middle Ages. Kaluga oblast covers 29,900 square
kilometers, and had a population of approximately 1,085,000 in 1994. It is smaller than Tver oblast, which
has a total land area of 84,200 square kilometers and a population of about 1,655,000. Tver is the largest oblast
in central Russia, with a low population density. Almost 75 percent of the citizens of Kaluga and Tver reside
in what are considered urban areas, with a large number living in the capital city (33 percent, or 360,400 in
Kaluga city; 28 percent, or 470,000 in Tver city).
3.        These oblasts have seen significant population decreases in recent years, steeper than that in Russia
as a whole, through a combination of steeply falling birth rates and slightly rising death rates. As a result, the
populations of both oblasts are aging. In 1994 the crude birth rate was 8.2 per 1,000 population in Kaluga and
the crude death rate 17.4 per 1,000 population. About 20 percent of the oblast's population is over age 60.
Prior to World War II, Tver Oblast reached its peak population of 2,900,000, about 75 percent larger than
today. Overall, about 18.7% of the population is over age 60, with an even higher proportion of aged (28.9%)
in rural areas. In 1994 the birth rate had fallen to 7.7 per 1,000 population, the lowest level since World War
Two. The death rate in 1994 was 21.0 per 1,000.
Socioeconomic Situation
4.        Although Kaluga and Tver share similar geographic and demographic characteristics, their economic
base varies. The economy of Kaluga oblast, especially before the break-up of the Soviet Union, was dominated
by the military-industrial complex. Kaluga was one of the centers of rocket technology as well as a center for
the production of engines for military use. The dominant sector is industry, which employs 34 percent of the
working population. The major industrial products are engines, turbines, electronics and railway machinery.
The social sector places second, with 20 percent of the work force, while agriculture accounts for 13 percent
of employment.
5.        Tver's economy has been built on trade, timber, textiles, cattle, and heavy manufacturing. In
addition to lumber, much of Tver's timber has been used to produce pulp paper, with a prominent parallel
industry emerging in printing and publishing. Beef and dairy cattle, as well as hog and chicken production,
continue to be important products. Tver has a national reputation for its linen and cotton fabrics. For over 100
years, Tver has manufactured over half of all the railroad cars used in Russia. Glass products, for both
industrial and home use, are also produced here.
6.        The economies of both regions have been hard hit by the break-up of the Soviet Union. Several
key industries in Tver oblast, especially textiles and manufacturing, have been dependent on historical trade
links with other geographic regions now considered independent states. In Kaluga oblast, many industrial
enterprises and military industries have slowed or stopped production. In both regions, high inflation and the
scarcity and high cost of consumer goods, including food and energy, has undermined the economy of most
families. Unemployment is on the rise and an increasing number of people are living below the official poverty
line.



Page 66                                                                                  ANNEX 1.1
Health Status
7.        As can be seen in Table 1, the health status of the populations of Kaluga and Tver reflects many
of the same characteristics found throughout Russia, and especially Central Russia. Life expectancy at birth
in Kaluga in 1994 declined to 60.1 for men, and 72.5 for women, a decrease of about two years from 1992.
In Tver, average life expectancy for males is 57 years and for females 71 years - with much lower figures
reported in rural villages. Both regions have suffered deteriorating health status for some years.
8.        Among adults, mortality from major chronic non-communicable diseases has increased considerably,
particularly cardiovascular diseases, and cancers. In addition, accidents and trauma have increased dramatically.
Underlying reasons for these increased mortality rates include three major factors. First, unhealthy lifestyles,
including diets high in fat, smoking, alcohol consumption increase rates of chronic disease. Second, high levels
of stress associated with the social and economic transition influence both health status and accident rates.
Third, the deterioration in the quality of health care services and the shortage of financing limit the ability to
respond to these problems.
9.         The health status of pregnant women and their infants is somewhat better in Kaluga than Tver,
although it is low in both oblasts when compared to other industrialized countries. In 1994, infant mortality
was 17.1 per 1,000 live births in Kaluga, a rate two times higher than in the countries of Europe and North
America. The corresponding figure for Tver was 19.5 per 1,000. In both oblasts, abortion remains the
primary means of fertility regulation, with almost two abortions for every live birth. According to official
statistics, only about one in five women in these regions use modern forms of contraception (19.3 percent in
Kaluga and 23 percent in Tver). Repeat abortion is a potential cause of infertility; abortion is also responsible
for at least 25 percent of maternal deaths nationwide. In Tver and Kaluga maternal mortality is four to five
times higher than in OECD countries (56 and 50.6 per 100,000 live births, respectively). A trend toward
increasing incidence of sexually transmitted infections also jeopardizes both reproductive health and infant
health.
Health Services
10.       Following the Russian pattern, both oblasts have a number of specialty and referral hospitals under
the direction of the Oblast Health Authority, with local authorities responsible for district hospitals, village
dispensaries, and feldsher stations. As a general rule, oblast and lower level institutions consist of both a
hospital and polyclinic, under the joint direction of the head doctor. In addition, in both Tver and Kaluga,
additional facilities are operated independently by the federal ministries of railroads, defense, nuclear energy,
and by some industrial enterprises.
11.       There are 12,500 hospital beds in Kaluga oblast, or about 115 beds for every 10,000 people. The
distribution of beds includes 5,100 beds in rayon and district hospitals; 1,280 at the Central Oblast Hospital;
2,765 in oblast specialist institutions; 2,500 beds in Kaluga municipality; 780 beds in sanitariums and 75 beds
for nursing care. There are 21,580 acute hospital beds in Tver Oblast, with an additional 1,171 beds located
in sanitariums or convalescent facilities. The ratio of acute beds to population is about 110 beds per 10,000 -
notably higher than ratios of 45 to 70 beds per 10,000 common in Europe and America, although slightly lower
than in Kaluga.
12.       The average length of stay in Kaluga oblast is 18.5 days, although it varies by specialty. In Tver,
the average hospital stay is in excess of 15 days. An additional period of recuperation in a sanitarium follows
most hospitalizations. Admission rates in both oblasts also seem excessive, strongly suggesting there is room
for more rational utilization of hospitals and beds. Both oblasts have taken initial steps to decrease capacity.
Because of continuing economic hardship, maintenance and repair of health facilities have suffered. Health
authorities also report extensive shortages of usable medical equipment and supplies.



ANNEX 1.1                                                                                 Page 67
Medical Education
13.       There is no medical academy in Kaluga oblast. Students wishing to study medicine must go to
Moscow, Smolensk, Tver, Rezan or elsewhere. There are, however, two medical colleges in Kaluga City. One
of them trains nurses and provides basic medical education for future doctors and paramedical workers. The
other college provides post-graduate training for all categories of health workers, now including doctors in
training for general practice.
14.       By contrast, the Tver Medical Academy is one of the oldest and highly respected medical education
centers in Russia. Tver Medical Academy has an enrollment of about 2,000, drawing students from nine
surrounding oblasts. Like other Russian medical schools, the Academy has historically concentrated on
preparing medical specialists rather than general practitioners. After successfully passing a state certification
exam, graduates pursue further specialization in one or more years of postgraduate residency at one of nine
larger hospitals in the oblast. A second certification exam is required after residency before a doctor is qualified
to practice in his or her selected specialty.  However, in recent years, the Academy has actively sought to
develop a program in family medicine.
Health System Financing
15.       As elsewhere in Russia, the financing of health services in Kaluga and Tver is complex and
dynamic. Historically, health services have been provided to the population free of charge. Prior to the break-
up of the Soviet Union, they were financed through allocations from the federal government. With the
decentralization of responsibility for health care to the oblast and local levels (beginning in the late 1980s), both
financing and allocation of resources for the vast majority of health services are local responsibilities. Today,
medical care provider payments are complicated both by multiple sources of funding and the different methods
used to pay hospitals, polyclinics, and physicians.
16.       Kaluga and Tver have both begun implementing the compulsory health insurance scheme mandated
by the federal government in 1991. Under that law, an earmarked tax of 3.6 percent is collected on all wages,
with 3.4 percent deposited in the Territorial Health Insurance Fund (THIF) and 0.2 percent transferred to the
Federal Compulsory Health Insurance Fund. Contributions to the THIF on behalf of the non-working
population (children, the unemployed, pensioners, etc.) come from local rayon and municipal governments.
The THIFs in both Kaluga and Tver have experienced shortfalls because rayon and local governments have
made lower contributions than planned, due to their own difficult financial situations.
17.       Additional funds come directly from the oblast consolidated budget, which in the case of Kaluga
includes substantial federal transfers. In 1994, 13 percent of the Kaluga oblast consolidated budget was spent
on health; the corresponding figure for Tver was 27 percent. Both oblasts fund the health care facilities that
are directly under their control from the consolidated oblast budget using the historical budgeting norms. Total
per capita spending on health care in 1994 was estimated at about 116,000 Roubles ($53) for Kaluga, and
138,000 Roubles ($63) for Tver. Private spending on health care is limited, but higher than in Soviet times.
In Kaluga, approximately 11 percent of health expenditures are estimated to be private; for Tver, this figure
is not available.
18.       Reforms in the Russian health care system began on an experimental basis before the break-up of
the Soviet Union. Based on early experiments in St. Petersburg, Kemerovo, and Novosibirsk, Kaluga developed
plans to establish general practice fundholding arrangements in the early 1990s. As a result of the rapid changes
occurring during the break-up of the Soviet Union, these plans were not implemented, although elements of
these reforms can be found in the project design for Kaluga. In recent years, Kaluga oblast has moved quickly



Page 68                                                                                             ANNEX  1.1
to implement the federal health insurance legislation and develop some expertise in payment options and
information systems. The THIF began operating in September 1993 and virtually all individuals in the oblast
are covered through the THIF. Except for two small insurance companies covering 20,000 people, the THIF
enters into contracts with medical care facilities and makes payments directly to these facilities. Doctors are
salaried employees of polyclinics and hospitals. Beginning in 1991, Kaluga began to pay hospitals on a per-
case basis, using a variant of the Clinical Statistical Groups (CSGs) developed in Kemerovo, St. Petersburg,
and other early experiences in provider payment reforms. Unfortunately, this attempt to control costs was
countered by an increase in the number of admissions in subsequent years. As a result, spending on inpatient
hospitals services increased from 45 percent of the total in 1991 to 59 percent in 1993.
19.         The THIF in Tver began collecting revenues in 1993. The Fund began to phase-in payments to
providers in January 1994; in January 1996, 26 out of 36 rayons were receiving payments from the THIF. In
the rayons not paid by the THIF, health facilities are reimbursed through the rayon budgets with payments based
on the historical budgeting system. The THIF reimburses hospitals on the basis of finished cases and polyclinics
on a per visit basis. In all facilities, doctors are salaried employees. A number of innovative provider
reimbursement arrangements have begun in Tver. The rayon hospital in Vishniy Volochok, for example, has
signed a contract with the THIF that includes incentives to economize: the hospital may retain any payments
it receives in excess of costs (up to 20 percent variance) if its patients are discharged earlier than the prescribed
norms. In addition, one oblast facility, the Children's Hospital, is being reimbursed on the basis of finished
cases.
Table 1. Health Status and Health Services Data, Kaluga. Tver. and Russian Federation. 1994
Russian
Kaluga              Tver            Federation
Population (millions)                                          1.085               1.655                 148.2
of which urban (percent)                                      73.0               71.8                     73.1
of which working age (percent)                                47.0               58.5                     56.6
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)                               8.2                7.7               9.5
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)                              17.4               21.0              15.5
Life expectancy at birth: Women                                      74.3        71.0 (1993)              71.6
Men                                                                  62.4        56.7 (1993)              58.2
Death rate by cause (per 100,000 population):
Diseases of the circulatory system                            900.3 (1993)            1310.9             837.3
Malignant neoplasms                                           232.3 (1993)             239.5             206.6
Injury and poisoning                                          197.9 (1993)             337.5             250.7
Infant Mortality Rate                                                17.1               19.5              19.0
Maternal Mortality Rate                                              50.6               56.0       52.0 (1993)
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (% of women 1549)                      19.3               23.0       22.8 (1993)
Population per physician                                            316.0              263.2             222.0
Hospital beds per 10,000 population                                 115.0              110.0             129.4
Average length of stay (days)                                        18.5               17.2       17.0 (1993)
Admissions rate (percent of population)                              19.3               21.3       21.0 (1993)
Average number of physician visits                                    6.4                8.0               8.9
Total health expenditures as percent of govemment spending           15.0               27.0               7.9



ANNEX 2.1                                                          Page 69
ANNEX 2.1: Kaluga Oblast Delivery System Restructuring
POPULATION
_    _       -   _   |  FELDCSHER               E
-    =       -   =         =                    M
E
- _    -   | AMBULATORIES                 G 
E
N
- _    | DIS. HOSPITALS  |                C
E
POLYCLINICS                           S
HOSPITAL      |
EXISTING
REFORM
-                 ~~~~POPULATIONl
-      ~~FELDSCHER               E
M
E
FAMILY PHYSICIAN               R
E
N
C
| CDTC'S                                I  
E
| GEN. & EMERG. HOSPITALS   |
|        REFERRAL HOSPITALS
PATIENT FLOWS



Page 70                                                                         ANNEX 2.1
ANNEX 2.1: Kaluga Oblast Delivery System Restructuring
Closing Health Care Facilities
1997      1998       1999      2000   | 2001    TOTAL
The 5 Rayons                                                                                l
*Feldshers                                    8          8         5         5          26
*Ambulatories                                 4          3                               7
*CRH Beds                                    55         50        35        17         157
*DH Beds                           30        35                                         65
Kaluga Municipality          _
*Feldshers                          3         2          1                               6
*Ambulatories                       1         2          i                               4
*Emergency Hospital Beds                     50         80                             130
TOTAL NJMBERS
*Feldshers                          3        10          9         5         5          32
*Ambulatories                       1         6          4         0         0          11
*CRH Beds                           0        55         50        35        17         157
*DH Beds                           30        35          0         0         0          65
*Emergency Hospital Beds            0        50         80         0         0         130



ANNEX 2.1: Kaluga Oblast Delivery System Restructuring
Project Coverage
m
X
s-e Comrponent              Kaluta City           Maloywoslanky Rayon         Ferziksiky Rayon        Boyatisky Rayon       Zhidrinsky Rayo            Medymsky Rayon                Kalisga Obluat
Exists      Ref m         Exists      Relbem        Exiss       Reform      Exists     Reform     Exists     Rcform     Exists         Reform           Exists       Reform
Popusitott                340(050                    51.5(,C                    17,500)                 8,250                 13.750                14.S0                         1,0S5,OCO      444,00     |
Oblsst Hospital             1.280                      NA                        NA                      NA                    NA                    NA                             1,280
O.H. PolychnileCDTC                                    NA                        NA                      NA                    NA                    NA                               I
City Hospitals           7@250 beds      2,tl5         NA                        NA                      NA                    NA                    NA                              7
C.H. PoyrlidmcwsCDrC         6            0            NA                        NA                      NA                    NA                    NA                              6
Spsciathy Hopitalo         5s             50           NA                       I PAy-                  NA                     NA                    NA                              5
elsistfie
S.H. Polyclinic/CDTC         5            5                                                              =                      =                     =                              =
Central Rayon Hospt.                                300 beds    240 beds    175 beds    100 beds         105        95         10B        103        265            230            4472         953n68
C.R.H. Polycl./CDTC          5            4            0         1(9 gp's)       0         1(2 gp's)     0       1(4 gp's)      0      1(3 gp's)      0          1(4 gp's)           0             9
Dismfict Hospitals           0            0         50 beds         50         30beds         0          0          0          20         10         25              0            25@620        125/60
D.H.Polyclinic/CDTC          0            0                      1(5 gp s)                                                               I gp                      I gp
Group Practice               0          17(135         0        2 (above)        0         I (above)     0       1 (above)     0       I (above)      0          I (above)           0        plus 23 gp
gp's                 I
General Practice Off.        2            17           0          3 gp's         0          4 gp's       0                     0        2 gp's        0            I gp              0       plus 27 gp's
Feldsher Stations           22            16           30           15           22           18         19         16         21         18         II             II              498         125/97
Misc. Other Units
Emergency Hospital        1@52U 1@400                                           ___                                                                                                @528         1@400 
Oher Polyclinics             5            5            0                         0                       0                     0                     0                               5             5
Industrial Polyclinics       10           10           I                         0                       0                     0                     0                              10            10
-J



Page 72                                                                      ANNEX 3.1
ANNEX 3.1: Project Management and Implementation
A. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
1.         The Borrower (the Russian Federation) would be represented by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF). MOF would on-lend Bank funds to the Kaluga and Tver oblasts, which are participating in the
project, except for the amounts which are allocated to finance two federal level components - the National
Program in Family Medicine, which would be conducted by the Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy
(MMA) and the Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination Component which would be carried out by
the MedSocEconomlnform (MSEI). Both Institutes belong to the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH).
On-lending arrangements would be reflected in:
(a)  subsidiary loan agreements (Oblast Agreements) between MOF, MOH and
the administrations of the participating oblasts;
(b)  appropriate agreements between MOF and MOH to channel the loan funds
to the Moscow Sechenov Academy and MSEI;
(c)  Project Coordination Agreement between MOF, MOH and the CSU of the Health Care
Foundation to delegate the responsibilities for overall project management and
implementation and utilization of loan funds;
(d)  appropriate agreements between the CSU (within the RHCF) and respective
Sub-borrowers to authorize the CSU to carry out procurement transactions
and process payments related to project activities out of the loan proceeds
on behalf of Sub-borrowers.
These agreements would (i) cover implementation responsibilities, (ii) provide a legal basis for the timely
flow of loan funds to the project beneficiaries, (iii) lay down the repayment obligations of the
beneficiaries, and (iv) articulate assurances from the Sub-borrowers to provide local funding for the
respective sub-projects.
B. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
2.         A Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of Health, would carry out overall project
supervision. The Committee has already been established (for list of members and Terms-of-Reference
refer to Annex 3.2).
3.         A Central Support Unit (CSU) has been set up in Moscow to carry out day-to -day project
management and implementation. In August 1996, the MOF informed the Bank of Government's decision
to merge the management units for the Medical Equipment Project and for the Health Reform Pilot
Project. The CSU has become a part of the Health Care Foundation which was registered at the Federal
Ministry of Justice as an independent legal entity on November 29, 1996. To reduce the cost of both
projects, it was decided that both management units of the Medical Equipment Project and Health Reform
Pilot Project respectively would have a shared group of staff with skills and qualifications indispensable
for both projects. This group would include four sub-groups: (i) Accounting and Disbursement, (ii)
Procurement, (iii) Personnel and Legal Issues and (iv) Administrative Support. In addition, a Procurement
Consulting Firm would be contracted by the CSU to carry out procurement of goods and works under
ICB and NCB procedures. The CSU staff would be hired as individual consultants and paid locally



ANNEX 3.1                                                                        Page 73
competitive salaries. All key CSU staff would be expected to have a working knowledge of spoken and
written English.
Terms of Reference for the Central Support Unit (CSU)
within the Health Care Foundation
4.         General Coordination of the Proiect:
(a)  will assist oblasts in general day-to-day coordination of the respective sub-
projects and will conduct a general coordination on behalf of the MMA and
MSEI, and will be overseen by  periodic meetings of the Advisory
Committee;
(b)  monitoring overall project implementation, deadlines and resource utilization;
(c)  coordinate with Sub-projects' PMUs and perform frequent site visits.
5.         Profect Planning and Management:
(a)  provide methodological and technical assistance and participate in the
preparation of sub-project plans;
(b)  develop procedures for project management, activity and budget planning,
payment processing, various procurement activities, reporting, etc., which
will be used by all project participants;
(c)  produce a general project operating manual, which will be completed by the
oblasts, the MMA and MSEI, in their respective areas, for use by the project
participants;
(d)  oversee the introduction of procedures in the two oblasts, MMA and MSEI,
aimed at implementing World Bank reporting and control requirements, and
consolidate the information provided by the two oblasts, MMA and MSEI
into overall project reports;
6.         Financial Services:
(a)  offer technical assistance to the PMUs in the preparation and regular
updating of their component budgets and financing plans;
(b)  consolidate the oblast, MMA and MSEI budgets and plans into an overall
project budget and financing plan;
(c)  process grant/loan fund draw downs and withdrawal applications, manage the
Special Account, and carry out cost control;
(d)  establish an appropriate accounting system to provide information on the
receipt and use of funds in accordance with the Loan agreement;
(e)  with the authorization and on request of designated officials of MMA and
MSEI to manage all financial issues and payments related to the two federal
level sub-projects.
7.         Procurement of Civil Works. Goods and Services Financed from the Loan Funds:
(a)  to provide assistance to the Sub-borrowers in preparation of requests for procurement of
works and goods;



Page 74                                                                           ANNEX 3.1
(b)  to coordinate the work of Procurement Consulting Firm in carrying out the
procurement of civil works and goods on requests of the Sub-Borrowers;
(c)  to carry out Local and International Shopping and direct purchasing of goods
and services from local contractors;
(d)  assist the Sub-borrowers in the preparation or modification of terms of
reference, letters of invitation and draft contracts for technical assistance;
(e)  to handle all external and local technical assistance contracts according to the
Bank procedures;
(f)  to arrange overseas and coordinate regional training.
8.          Logistics and Translation:
(a)  to help organize World Bank supervision missions and visits of foreign
consultants;
(b)  to provide translation of documents and interpretation at missions and other
meetings with the Bank and foreign consultants (mainly through hired
translators/interpreters);
(c)  to assist in the administration of fellowships, study tours and local training.
9.          Communication and Liaison:
(a)  to provide a single channel of communication between the project participants
and the Bank;
(b)  to liaise with the MOF, the MOH, the appointed bank(s) and other agencies
as required by the Project.
10.         Other.
(a)  to coordinate activities with bilateral and multilateral organizations;
(b)  other activities as may be required to ensure that the intent of the terms of
reference is fulfilled.
11.         Organizational arrangements related to the Kaluga and Tver Sub-projects' management and
implementation are shown in Annex 3.3 (charts). Each oblast management team will consist of the Oblast
Project Coordination Committee (for overall sub-project supervision) and a Project Management Unit (for
day-to-day coordination of sub-project activities).
Terns of Reference for Oblast PMU
12.         The PMU would be responsible for the following activities:
(a)  sub-project management, coordination and implementation of all sub-project
components;
(b)  detailed  planning  of sub-project activities, timetables,  targets  for
performance, budgets and evaluation criteria for each sub-project component;
(c)  assist the CSU in the preparation of specifications for procurement of goods
and terms of reference for procurement of services;



ANNEX 3.1                                                                              Page 75
(d)  submit properly prepared financial documentation and payment requests to
the CSU for directing payments directly to the contractors/consultants;
(e)  with the advice and assistance of the CSU, be responsible for the financial
management of the sub-project, including administration and accounting of
the sub-project budget, local counterpart financing, and any associated
grants;
(f)   monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the various sub-project
components and providing the required information and reports to the CSU
to be incorporated into project reports;
(g)  organization of local (within the oblast) and regional (with assistance of the
CSU) training activities;
(h)  assist the CSU in arranging overseas training for the oblast sub-project;
(i)  after the procurement of goods is completed, to follow on its distribution to
the end users, coordinate or arrange, when necessary, installation of the
equipment;
(j)  contribute to the work of the CSU in producing sections of the project
operating manual related to each specific sub-project;
(k)  carry out the monitoring of sub-project implementation, deadlines and
resource utilization;
(1)  liaise with the CSU;
(m)  help to organize World Bank supervision missions and visits of foreign
consultants;
13.         Financial reporting arrangements and the flow of loan funds are shown in Annex 3.4



Page 76                                                                        ANNEX 3.2
ANNEX 3.2: Steering Conmmittee for the Project: Terms of Reference
Title : STEERING COMMITTEE for the Health Reform Pilot Project
Chaired by : Project Director for the HRPP
Represented agencies:
1. Ministry of Health  (i)Division of Medical Care for Population;
(ii)Division of Cooperation with WHO And other International Organizations;
2. MedSocEconomInform;
3. Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy;
4. Federal Health Insurance Fund;
5. Chairman of the Tver Oblast PCC;
6. Chairman of the Kaluga Oblast PCC;
7. Tver Territorial Health Insurance Fund;
8. Kaluga Territorial Health Insurance Fund;
9. Tver Medical Academy.
Recommends to:        Project Director
Aim :                 Overall supervision of the HRPP activities
Essential duties and responsibilities:
-  to supervise the implementation of HRPP to ensure that the project objectives are being achieved;
-  to provide guidance and advise to the Project Director in relation to the design and implementation
of HRPP activities; to recommend necessary actions to ensure the sustainability and consistency of
interventions being made under the project;
-  to provide an arena for all of the participants and beneficiaries of the Project to discuss project related
issues and make recommendations to the Project Director on strategic issues consolidating the
opinions and comments made;
- to ensure the cooperation and coordination between all of the parties involved in the development and
implementation of the HRPP;
- to develop strategic plans for further interventions in the health care reforms in the country



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                         Page 77
ANNEX 3.3: Kaluga Subproject Management Structure
KALUGA OBLAST
ADMINISTRATION
Governor
Oblast Health-
Administration,
Head
Territorial Health|
Insurance Fund,
Chairman
R O                                                       PrjetMaaemn                    Central Suopo
J R M                                                                                       (Moscow)
E  D  I        __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Director
CITN                             
TN T                       Supervisor
A E                  Componentl: Delivery                  Coordinator for
T E                  System Restructunng               Component 1: Delivery
I                                                       System Restructuring
O                         Supervisor
N           .   .  Component 2: Provider
Incentives           ,          Coordinator for
Component 2: Provider
SuJervisor                         Incentives
Component 3: MCH
,           Coordinator for
Component 3: MCH
---------  -                                 Accountant
Support Staff



Page 78                                                                                                    ANNEX 3.3
ANNEX 3.3: Tver Subproject Management Structure
TVER OBLAST
ADMINISTRATION
Govemor
I~~-           -  -  -      - - - - -
-                 Head of Project Coordination
, '                          ~~~~~~~~~Cominiftee 
Head of Oblast Health
/                                         Administration
0          |    ~~~~Oblast HealthT
I    AdminstrtUon.        _
Deputy Head
c  c C  C         T rritorlalHealth
g  R  O  O         Insurance Fund.                                    ject Management
O  0  M               Chairmr                                                                         Central Support
J R M
,'   E D  I                                              l                Director                       (Moscow)
C  I T                       Twr Med.Academy                       _
T  N  T                    Componentl Cardio-Vascular                 C
A  E                             Health                            Coordmator for
T  E                    _                                       Component 1: Cardio-
I                         Tver Med.Academv.                        Vascular Health
0                               Supervisor
Component 2: Family Medciine              Coordinator for
!                                                               Component 2: Family
Medicine
uCoponent 3 MCH
C o m ponent   3:   M C H             C o o rd in a to r     fo r
Component 3: MCH
Component 4: Pmowder
Incentives                         Coordinator for
Component 4:
Provider Incentives
Accounrant
Support Staff



ANNEX 3.4: Flow of Funds for the Project Implementation
z
z
|   4      . |                Russian Health Care Foundation,
Central Support Unit (Moscow)
IBRD               I Replenishment
Special Account
(Vs$);Prjc
Kaluga Oblast                          Tver Oblast          /             Moscow Fecheno          |            Med0ocEcqnomInform
PMU               5                  PMU                           Medical Academt                           4f the MOHMI
, r                                     /'    1E 2                            I         523           I 3
CONTRACTORS' BANK ACCOUNTS
1. Replenishment of the Special Account, managed by the CSU     4. Withdrawal Application to World Bank Disbursement Department
2. Contracts are signed with Contractors                         5.  Funds are paid to Contractor's account for work done.                            aQ
CD
3. Contractors' invoices are submitted for payment.                                                                                                   <
Sub-borrower approves payments.                                                                                                                      0



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed lmplementation Schedule
4th Quarter       i     1st Quarter      1    2nd Quarter               3rd Quarter             4th Quarter
ID   Task Name                                                      Oct    Nov    Dec    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr   May    Jun               Jul    Aug    Sep     Oct    Nov    Dec 
I   PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                                                                                          0.
2   Preparatory work on implementation plans
3   World Bank Appraisal Mission
6   Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Signed                                             .    _._:
7   Deadline for loan effectiveness
8   Negotiations
w ank/Borrowers
9   Prepared Board Documents
nk
10   Submnit documents to Board
11   Bank board approval
12   Russian Government approval
13   Sign loan documents
14   Sign subsidiary loan agreements with two oblasts
1 5   PROJECT STARTUP                                                                                                ..
16   Establish CSU                                                                                                              - = _ -  _   - =       = : ---
17       CSU registered as legal entity                                       s[iFnMz
MinFin/M H
18       CSUStaff recruitmen -.....*t = 82
.... ....   .................. .8 /2 8
19            Appointment of the Director
20            Finalize staff table and remuneration schedule
21            Selection and appointment of Accountant
22            Procurement Firm is selected
23            Planned staff hired_______ 
24            Orientation of new staff and initial work assignment                 11/2X
25        OfficePremises1
CSU



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule
1997         j       1998                  1999                   2000                  2001                  2002
ID Task Name                                                             01|2|3Q4|Q1 Q2Q3|Q4|Q1 Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1 Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1 Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1 Q20Q30Q4                                                                         >
1        MONITORING,EVALUATION & DISSEMINATION                                                                                                                                                                      z
2    I.Start Up Activities                                                                        1/23
3         Scbtion ots Partner Institution                                  -           8
4              TOR for Academic Partner Institution
6              Short List Prepared
6              Bank's Ok on TOR and short list
7              Bids received and evaluation copleted
8              Selection completed
9              Consultant Firm starts working
10        Design Evaluaiton Indicators                                           10/6            119
11             Health Status Indicators
12             Providers' Satisfaction Indicators
13              Clinical Quality Indicators
14              Service Delivery Structure indicators
15              Economic Efficiency Indicators
16        Develop Evaluation methodologies
17        Develop data base for project evaluation
18   II. Monitoring Key Project ndicatos                                                                    .      __   ___ _=____                        ___ _ _____     . 
23
19        Monitoring Activities
20        Initiation Workshop
21        Annual Workshops
22   Ill. Evaluation of Project Impact                                                                                                       61          7/26
23        Test and Evaluate the methodologies                                                                                                     U-
24        Develop Final Evaluation design
25   IV. Dissemination of Project Results
1111___,_,_,,_.__....___1/1   j
ME&D



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule
1997                  1998                   1999                   2000                   2001                 A
ID    TaskQName                                                     Q1 02   Q3   04   Ql  Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   03   Q4   01   Q2   Q3                               0
1 NATIONAL FAMILYME.DICINE PROGRMM....                                                                                                        .     ..               .t
2    L.Deydopmntx of lt4de Modebl
3  1  Academic Partnenhip - Store up activities                                  91
11    1.2 Initiation Conference
_ _ _ _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10/1                                     12/10
13    1.3 Prepration of training n                                                 1/5ate
15    1.4 Scientiic Conference
'                                              5/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9        7M`7
17    I S Annual Conferences
_   _                                       .                        gn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15  'F0t 11M`2
19   IL. Werking with Pr 
20    2.1 Setting up a School of FM in Kahip                                       1/5 |lIMA
22    2.2 Cooperation with TMA                                                         3    MA
24    2.3 Library set up
_ _ - ~~~~~~~~~~~1/8 WMt                                                                12V15
26    2.4 Training of Trainers
28   IILDissenmelion of   rkce
29    3.1 Evaluation Conference
. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5/3                                    7M11
z
z
National Family Medicine Program



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule
Qtr4, 1996    Qtr 1, 1997 Qtr   1997    Qtr3, 1997    Qtr4, 1997    Qtr 1, 1998    Qtr2, 1998
ID     Task Name                                                                             Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul |Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan  Feb|Mar Apr May Jun>
1   TVER SUB-PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                         Z
2     D. Management Structure
3           Oblast Project Coordination Committee set up                                       end of OPCC
4           List of members is sent to the Bank
pPCC                              '
5           Oblast PMU Set Up324    OHA
6                Office Premises provided
d of OHA
7                Obl.Adm. instruction legalizing set up of PMU                                                             Il,ad of  HA
8                Director is appointed
9                Office is fumished and ready for occupancy                                                                                   Director
10                Equipment purchase and delivery (CSU)
/2  WUPMU
11                     Specification of equipment and supplies
12                     Approval of final specification                                                                                          ank
13                     Procurement of equipment, International Shopping
14                     Computer equipment delivered
ontractor
15                     Installation of office completed                                                                                                  PMU
16                     PMU vehicles purchase and delivery, National Shopping
17                PMU Staff recruitment                                                                     .                  ,.26
6/1i- OPCC; 6/26
18                     Finalize staff table and remuneration schedule
19                     Advertisement. interviews, selection
ctor PMU
20                     Oblast Project Coord.Committee aproves the final list of candidates
ead of OPCC
21                     Planned staff hired and/or reassigined
ctor PMU
22                     Orientation of new staff and initial work assignments carried out
omponents Supervisors
23                PMU Staff training                                                                                              3                               10/
:5/30                             10/2                                                       e
24                     Training plan prepared, reviewed and approved                                                                              n       S
. P mponents Supervisors o
25                     Implementation of training plan
Tver Sub-Project



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule
1996       [     1997             1998             1999              2000             2001             2002
ID    Task Name                                                                Ql|Q21Q3|Q4 QllQ2|Q3lQ4lQl|Q2|Q3lQ41Q1|21Q3|Q4lQllQ2lQ3lQ4lQllQ21Q31Q4Q1|Q2|Q3lQ4                                                  0
I     A. CARDIO-VASCULAR COMPONENT                                                      *.Q
2     1. Primary & Second.Prevention                                                          4/2.                                     .       .      .. -. --;     ;                        >
3          LA Survey of Phys.awareness (FYI,2)
8          LIB Conferences and seminars nof712
16          I.C Training for nurses & feldshers                                                 .                                             -      -     -        - _7_.
19          II.D Risk reduction courses for physicians (FYI,2,3)                                                Y15                             .......   . . ..   l
5115 6tCsne                                            12121
22          i1LE Publications - teaching aids (FY 2-6)                                                                1 1                            . _  . _                          :
26          II.F Health Inventory (FY 1-3,6)                                                                  3     _                              - _  _-_...
.   3/26           __                                                                       9/
32    I     I.G Enterprise Risk Reduction (FY2-4)                                                                                                                                          .......................... __
47          IL.H     Diabetes  Center (FY3)                                                                                                         .          ___.      _    _1. ... .................... .   ..  .. ...   ...........
.  1/4 C*YT __ _ _ _1I4                                                                7/10
56          11.1 Early Detection of CV risk factors (FY2,3)                                                                         6        _       .  .                           9/.9
.  6/3 |b!! w6 39/19
59          II.J Training in optimizing prevention & detection (FYI-6)                               .                                               .
9/3   MI CSU                                    12/20
62    Ill. Emergency Care
63     A. Emergency   M edical System                                                                   .    .     .    ...                                 ..                           . - .  ............... ......................... ..... :  .._
_       8/
64          1. Restructuring of ambulance system (FY 2,3)
7/1 lh     f   !f"PhS.h.fAmbUla.ncde    W  7/26
68          2. Tra ining in Emergency Medicine                                            -                                                                                            _- .. ._._.   ......  .  _..__....  __. . .    . . .... .. .  _._  .....
75          3. Equipment for Dispatch center (FY2,3)
6/3 IW*MA   11/10
78          4. Ambulances                 _                                   _0_ _:                                                    _        _         :   :
.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/20:1S       6/5
86    B. Intensive Care Departments (FY2,3)                                                                            ____ _ ..
.____        6/2 5lHA                               _         9/19
91    IV. Diagnostic Enhancements
92    A. Evaluation of peripheral blood vessels
6/3  y         .         F  7/27'
94    B. Comuterized Axial Tomography
______                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6/3  y9/6                           Z
z
T v e r     S ub -P roj e ct
Tver Sub-Project



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule
1996             1997             1998              1999             2000             2001              2002               Z
ID  Task Name                                                        Q2Q3|Q4Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4Q1|Q2|Q3|Q411Q2QQ4Q1|Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2|Q3|Q4
1    B. RESTRUCTURING PROVIDER INCENTIVES COMP.
2    lTver Oblast MIS Development                                          1                                                                                                                     L1
3         Central Information Processing Center                                                                                                                            1/11
4              Planning & Assessment                                                   10/1  w                    9  12122
9              Register Organization
10             Renovation (NBF -local schedule to be merged)
11             Fumish the Center (NBF - local info)
12              a. Hardware and software purchase
6/3               1/12
15             b. Technical Assistance and training
8/3 WMU(ComponentCoordinr)                                          1/11
18             c. Development of training materials (FY 2,3,4,5,6)
19    IL TA: Provider Payments & Quality Assurance                                                    7/1
20         Study tours (FY 2)
21         Conference on Pr.Payments Systems (FY3)
22         Payment System Design                                                                      7/1 w    -                     10/20
27         Payment System Implementation                                                               /1  y  -                      10/20
30         Evaluation &Refinement                                                                          12/15                         9  4/4
34         Facility Manager trng                                                                     7/16                                                                    2
______   __________________________________________________7/i                                                                                    9  2 2 1
39    Il Quality Indicators Dev.System                                                                7/1                                           9/8
40         TA (ext., FY2)
41         TA (nat., FY2)                                                             .:i/CSU
42         Training (FY2)                                                                                       U
43         Training (FY3)                                                                          .m aU
Du~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
44         Training (FY4)                                                        .::
',r Sub-ProjetU 
Tver Sub-Project



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Implementation Schedule
1997             1998              1999             2000              2001              2002
ID    Task Name                                                       Q4 Q1|I V  Q4  Q1  Q2Q3Q4Q1  Q2Q3Q4 Q1Q2|Q3lQ4101 Q2lQ3|Q4101 Q20Q3lQ4
1    C MCI COMPONENT
00
2    I. Improving Antenatal Care
3126                                                                                          1/14
3          Protocol review and provider training                            71-                                                                               8/28
15         Psychological support                                       3/26                                                                                          1114
20         Upgrading 12 women's consultations
813 5:26
23         Vitamin&iron folate supplementation                                                     11/2                                                             12/14
26    H. Improving Perinatal Care                                                 11/3                                                                                         7/30
27        Introducing Rooming-in                                                        313                                                      11114
42        Implementing Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative                           12/1 a                                                                              I   5113
43             a. Technical Assistance (external),CSU
12/1 ~ftsu                                                                              5113
49         Provider training                                                       12/2 ,                                                                                      7/30
S0             a. Neonatal resuscitation                                           1212                                                                                        7 3
54             b. Management of labor/anesthesiology (Moscow)                               *-ianagement of labor/anesthesiology (Moscow)
55             c. Management of premature labor                               .                                  o p            l
X    .         _~~~~anagerhent of premature labor'                   
56         Psychological support/perinatal
11/3                                                                                 2/14
61    III. Improving Family Planning & Reproductive Health Care Services
62         Provider training (Kaluga)                            1                                   5/29
67         Upgrading Family Planning Center
6/2 
71         Contraceptives
6/2 7                                                                          f 8/1
75         Introducing sterilization                                                                   1                         <  4/28
78         Diagnosis & treatment of STD's in Women's Consultations
11/3                                                           V1/1
86    IV. Health Promotion & Professional Education                                1
1212 
z
87         Establishing Health Promotion Unit
12/2



i b                    -J    ,                             a    _    m    _    "                                        _ _   o    -----w _ _                                  G              _
i                                                            X.                                                    M~ i.  Id ,id1,1     
........            ..............    ........................    ..     .........................................            .......         .....   .   ..      ......       .....       .... ......    D_ 
.........                      ........................... ..................................................................,,,,.,   
......................................................... .... + f f - f ts , C _.................X
. ............  S,4....  .. ...................................              .   . . . . ....     .. .                                                                                ..           ..
U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wc
... ..  .. ..  .. ..     ..... . .. .........                                             .............         ....        ...        ....       ...  ..     .. . . . .. . . . .            .. . .  . . .  .
..                                                 .                                                     . ... .
te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.....           ...     I .......                ............    ............        ....      ..     ........                                      . .....      .   .         ...... .     ..... '    
Ca ~ ~  ~                ~                 ~                ~                ~               ~               ~              ~              L                                       C0
4_                                                                                                                  4  .
LS OSe'd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S E XEINNV



ANNEX 3.5: Summnary of Implementation Schedule
Qtr3,1996         |     Qtr4,1996         |    Qtr1,1997                Qtr2,1997          |     Qtr3,1997         [     Q
ID   Task Name                                                                    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct   Nov    Dec    Jan  I Feb I Mar   Apr I May  I Jun                      Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct
I  KALUGA SUB-PROJECT                                                                  *                                                                                                                                 0
00
2  MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE. PMU                                                                                              Il V NAGEMENT STRX@URE. PMU                                                       Y
3         Oblast Project Coordination Committee finalized
4         List of members is sent to the Bank                                                                                         U
5         Oblast PMU Set Up                                                                                                                3/10   blast jMU Set Up                                          7
6              Office Premises provided
7              Obl Adm instruction legalizing set up of PMU
8              Director is appointed
9              Office is fumished and ready for occupancy
10              Equipment purchase and delivery
7/1       quiprne        919
11                   Specification of equipment and supplies
12                   Approval of final specification
13                   Procurement of equipment. intemational Shopping (CSU)
14                   Computer equipment delivered
15                   Installation of office completed
16                   PMU vehicles purchase and delivery, National Shopping (CSU)
17              PMU Staff recruitment                                                                                                                           526   MUS              7/11
18                   Finalize staff table and remuneration schedule
19                   Advertisement, interviews, selection
20                   Oblast Project Coord.Committee aproves the final list of candidates
21                   Planned staff hired and/or reassigned
22                   Orientation of new staff and initial work assignments carried out                                                                                                                   I
z
z
23              PMU Staff training
7/1       MU Staff training r
24                   Training plan prepared, reviewd and approved
25                   implementation of training plan
Kaluga Sub-project



40  9 a -O s " - s o s e -  9 -  " -  0 b -  w T ~~~~~~~~0   c                 to 
i  0    !1t ,  i i   , 1i ar    'II,
.. . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . .I   .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........................  .. ...... .         . .... .. S............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   D.
g                   gJ~.  #                        ;I 0                                           go
a.                       .     ^                                 .                                  o. o.. .
;~                                       .                                                      ov o
C                                      C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.. E. ..                                                                                    ...
I~~~~4F D.                                       U
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
68 ed.                                                                                        X aN



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of Detailed Implementation Schedule
1997      |       1998          1999             2000            2001             2002             2003         P
ID    TaskName                                                              Q1lQ2IQ3IQ4 Q1IQ2IQ3IQ4 Q1IQ2IQ3IQ4 Q1IQ2IQ3IQ4 Q1IQ2IQ3IQ4 Q1IQ2IQ31Q4 Q1IQ2IQ3
2  B. RESTRUCTURING PROVIDER INCENTIVES COMP.                                 81*
3    I. Provider Payment System Development - Pilot projects
4         Pilot in Kalugs Municipality                                                      6                              . ;  -          .
6/  y:.4130
14         Pilot in Maloyaroslavsky r-on (FY4,S)                                                             6/2
23         Pilot in Fersikovsky r-on (FY4,5)                                                                 6/2 Y:         :       .                   62 .
32         Pilot in Zhizdrinsky r-on (FY4,5)
41         Pilot in Medynsky r-on (FY4,5)                                                                                                               6/29
50    ,   Pilot in Barystinsky r-on (F4,S)                                                                   6/2                                        6/29
59         Oblast wide implemenatbtion (FYS,6)
68~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
69    I1. Technical Assistance for Introducing Quality Assurance
70         TA(external)                                                                         1W12                                                      8/24
73         Training on new standards                                                       U1                                                                             3
74              a. Certification & Lkensure                                                   7/2                           10/21
78              b. Development of Clinical Standards
80              c. Quality Review                                                                                            -
86         Professional upgrading for physicians                                                                                                              11/9
91  II. Information Dissemination (FY2-6)                                        11/3
11139a SuK S3/25
z
z
Kaluga Sub-Project



ANNEX 3.5: Summary of lmplementation Schedule
1997               1998                1999               2000                2001                2002              Z
ID  Task Name                                                              Q1 Q2|Q3|Q41Q1|Q2lQ3|Q4lQ10Q20Q3lQ401|Q2lQ3|Q401  Q22Q30Q4 Q1|Q20Q3|Q4    Z
2   A. DELI VERY SYSTEM RESTRUCTURING COMPONENT
3   1. CIVIL WORKS                                                            7/1       ./V
4        General Practice Offices (Kaluga -17; Rayons -13)                       911                                                     .                   2/9
21        Group Practices (Kaluga-17. Rayons-6)                               7/1                               -                     .           7/10
35        CDTCs (Kaluga 4, Rayons - 5)                                          8/1   F   -                                                         8/24
44        Day Surgery Hospital (Kaluga -1)                                                          8/3     9=                  7/30
47        Emergency Hospital (Kaluga-l)                                                                                8/2 -                        7/28
50        District Hospitals (Rayons -2)                                                                   1/1      99                  12/30
53        Rayon Hospital (1)                                                                                      5/3   9                 w  4/28
56   IL PROCURE EQUIPMENT & PHARMACEUTICALS (see SAR, Procureme                                                                                                                      - - _  -
82  IlITechnical Assistance & Training                                       7/1  9                                                                            -             93/15
83        1. General Practice Management:Trng of Trainers GPs)                7/1  9                          9  11/18
711... I..... ..............
111       2. General Practice Management (Trng of Practitioners)                                                        7/2 9                                                      3/15
120       3. Upgrading program for GPs /rural areas
8/13  9910/26
124       4. GroupPractice Model Management                                                                                     - - - -                                    10/12
154       s. Organizstion and Mangement for CDTCs                              7/1     9                           11/27
157       6. Management of Inpatient Care Facilities                                                                   82  9                     9  8/29
161       7. Day Surgery Center staff training                                    9/1  9    _-9/29
1168      S. Emnerency HospitialstaLfftraining101-91/
168 S.EmergrwyRepitlstfftinin5~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  1/  ...  .................. ........  .......              ........ .. ..1/
(K
Kaluga Sub-project



ANNEX 3.6: Procurement Arrangements
________  _______     ____Major Activities Schedule (Dates)                              CD
Procurement          No.of           Est. Costs          Issue of          Bid/Prop.           Contract           Start Date/
Category of Procurement                      Method            Contracts       (USSmillion)           Docs.            Received           Signature         Begin Delivery
L Civil Works
1. Tvcr: Perinatal Center, construction and supplu of  combined ICB for          1            3.04 (CW)           Scpt. 1997         Dec. 1997         Febr 1998            Mar.1998
good                                                   CW and supply of                       2.6 (Goods)
2. Kaluga: Fam.Phis.offices, construction                   NCB                  2               1.00             Mar. 1999          May 1999           June 1999           July 1999
3. Kaluga: Maternity homes, renovation                      NCB                 2                0.72             Apr. 1998          June 1998          July 1998           Aug. 1998
4. Tvcr/Kaluga, renovation works                              -                                  7.9                   100% Local financing and procedures timed with related activities
11. Goods
1. Medical Equipmne                                          ICB                7                12.2            May 1998           Aug. 1998          Sept. 1998          Nov. 1998
2. Medical Equipment                                         ICB                8                9.1              May 1999          Aug. 1999          Sept. 1999           Nov. 1999
3. Medical Equipment (Endoscopic. Ultrasonic)                LIB                2                2.1              July 1998          Sept. 1998         Oct.1998            Dec. 1998
4. Ambulances                                                ICB                2                2.1              June 1998         Aug. 1998          Sept. 1998           Dec. 1998
5. Medical Vehicles                                         ICB                 2                1.7              June 1999         Aug. 1999          Sept. 1999           Nov. 1999
6. Vehicles for PMUs/CSU                                      IS                 1              0.06              July 1997         Sept.1997           Oct.1997           Nov. 1997
7. Training equipment (mnedical)                             IS                 2               0.06              Jan. 1998         Mar. 1998          Apr. 1998            June 1998
8. Furniture                                                                    -                1.0                  100% Local financing and procedures, timed with related activities
9. Office/Comnputer Equipment                               ICB                 3                1.2              July 1998         Sept. 1998         Oct. 1998           Nov. 1998
10. Office/Comoputer Equipment                              ICB                 2               0.75             May 1998           July 1998          Aug. 1998           Sept. 1998
11. Offtce/Comnputer Equipment                              ICB                 2               0.95             Dec. 1999          Feb. 2000          Mar. 2000           Apr. 2000
12. Office/Cornputer Equipment                              ICB                 2               1.45             Apr. 2001          June 2001          July 2001           Aug.2001
13. Office/Computer Equipment (CSUIPMUs)                     IS                 4                0.3             Oct.1996-          Nov.1996-        Dec. 1996-          Jan.-4997 -                  >
Mar.1997          Apr.1997           May 1997            June 1997                  Z
14. Software                                                 IS                2-4              0.22             July 1998          Aug. 1998          Sept. 1998          Oct. 1998
15. Radio dispatch equipment (for ambulances)                IS                 1               0.28             May 1998           July 1998         Aug. 1998            Sept. 1998
16. Pharmaccuticals and reagents'                           ICB                3-5               1.7             May 1998           July 1998          Sept.1998           Nov.1998



ANNEX 3.6: Procurement Arrangements
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)                                  Z
Procurement          No.of           Est. Costs          Issue of          Bid/Prop.           Contract           Start Date/
Category of Procurement                      Method            Contracts       (USSmilDon)            Docs.            Received           Signature         Begin Delvery
17. Pharmaceuticals and reagents                             ICB                3-5              2.0             Nov. 1999          Jan. 2000          Mar. 2000            May 2000
18. Pharmaceuticals and reagents                             ICB                3-5              2.0             Jan. 2002          Feb. 2002          April 2002           June2002
111. SERVICES
1. Procurement Consulting Firm                            Short List             1               1.3              Apr.1997           June1997          July 1997            Aug. 1997
2. Academic Partnership (FM) -firm                         Short list            2                1.1             Mar.1997           May 1997          June 1997            Aug.1997
3. Advisory Service to FM component (minor                Short List            4-6              0.2              May 1998           July1998           Aug.1998            Sept.1998
finn/individual contracts)                                                                                                                                                                 l
4. Establishment of FM training center in Kaluga         DC (Moscow              1               0.1              Sept. 1997         Nov. 1997          Dec. 1997           Febr. 1998
Medical Academy)                                                                                                                    l
5. Academic Partnership (ME&D)- firm                      Short List             1               0.6             Febr. 1997          Mar.1997          May 1997             July 1997
6. Advisory Service to ME&D (firm and minor individual    Short List             3               0.6              June 1997          Aug.1997           Sept.1997           Oct.1997
contracts)
7. Provider Payment Program Development (incl.Quality     Short List             2               1.45             July 1997          Aug.1997          Oct. 1997            Nov. 1997
Assurance and MIS) -firm
8. Advisory Service to THIF on Provider Payment           Short List            4-6              0.2              July 1998          Sept.1998          Oct.1998            Nov.1998
Program (minor firm and individual contracts)                                                                                                                                              l
9. Advisory Service (i.e Legal, Engineer) to the CSU -    Short List           5-10              0.25            Dec. 1996-         Feb. 1997-         Mar 1997-           April 1997-
individuals                                                                                                      Dec. 1998          Febr. 1999         Mar.1999            April 1999
10. TA in Clinical Management training - firm             Short List            2               0.24              July 1998         Aug. 1998           Oct 1998           Nov. 1998
11. Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative- firm               Short List            2                0.2             April 1998         June 1998          July 1998            Aug.1998
12. Technical Assistance and Advisory Service to MCH      Shon List             4                0.2             Aug. 1997           Oct.1997          Dec.1997            Jan. 1998
components (minor contracts with firms/individuals)
13. Contractual Services in Med.Equipment Maintenance     Short List           4-6               8.0            June 1998 -         Aug. 1998-         Sept. 1998-         Nov. 1998-
June 2001         Aug.2001           Sept.2001            Nov.2001
IV. TRAINING                                                                                                                   l                  l                  l                     l II
1. In-country training                                Specialized Govern.       6                3.2                               Year I through Year 6 of the project
training institutions; l
reimbursenment by



ANNEX 3.6: Procurement Arrangements
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
.                                                                                 l          Yi'
Procurement           No.of           Est. Costs            Issue Of          Bid/Prop.           Contract            Start Date/
Category of Procurement                        Method            Contracts        (US9nillion)            Does.             Received           Signature          Begin Delivery
2. Training materials                                           NS                TBD                1.0               A refined estimate, nature and procurement method of each contract would be
determined at the time of Bank's review of semi-annual plans and detailed budgets for
.______________________________________________________   ____________________   ______________   __________________   __________________  training
2. Study tours and fellowships                               Short List            36                1.2              Mar 1997-           May 1997-        July1997- July          Sept.1997-
Mar 2000           May2000               2000               Sept.2000
V. HEALTH PROMOTION PROGRAMS                                Guidelines                               3.3               A refined estimate, nature and procurement method of each contract would be
determined at the time of Bank's review of annual plans and detailed budget for
Health Promotion Programs.
VI. INCENTIVE PAYMENTS FUND                                                         -                1.8                      Direct payments to providers. Prior Bank approval is required
VII. CSU OPERATING COSTS                                    IS/NS/DC              4-20               0.8                   Several small transactions would he made over the life of the project
IX. BUILDINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                  -                14.8               100% Local financing and procedures, timed with project related activities
MAINTENANCE COSTS
X. OBLAST PMUs OPERAT7NG COSTS                              IS/NS/DC                                 3.4          Several small transactions would be made over the life of the project
TOTAL:                                               l                      l               |    98.40              l_
Figures nmay not total due to rounding
* 100% Local financing and procedures, appropriately timed with related activities. Excluding taxes
a/ Includes x-ray, lab, resuscitation, surgery equipment and instruments and functional diagnostic equipment.
b/ Includes generic drugs, vitamins, contraceptives, reagents and testing strips, supplies.
z
z
t-A)



ANNEX 3.7                                                                                                  Page 95
ANNEX 3.7: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Components Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(US$)                     Foreign    Base
Local        Foreign         Total      Exchange   Costs
1. HEALTH REFORM IN TVER OBLAST
A. CARDIO - VASCULAR HEALTH                           4,189,210      8,451.442     12,640,652        67       14
B. FAMILY MEDICINE                                    4,223,157      5,012,105      9,235,262        54       10
C. MCH                                                6,494,761      4,737,916     11,232,676        42       13
D. PROVIDER PAYMENTS, MIS, QAS                         1,652,630     1,477,314      3,129,945        47        4
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                              546,614      1,170,489      1,717,103        20        2
Subtotal I. HEALTH REFORM IN TVER OBLAST                 17,106,374     20,849,266     37,955,639        55       43
IIHEALTH REFORM IN KALUGA OBLAST
A. PROVIDER PAYMENTS                                  4,627,609      1,400,974      6,028,582        23        7
B. DELIVER SYSTEM RESTRUCTURING                       14,135,910    11,148,383     25,284,292        44       28
C. MCH                                                4,797,788      6,354,637     11,152,426        57       13
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                              540,399      1,162,372      1,702,771        68        2
Subtotal II.HEALTH REFORM IN KALUGA OBLAST               24,101,706     20,066,365     44,168,071        45       50
ID.NATIONAL FM PROGRAM                                    1,091,034      1,676,272     2,767,306         61        3
IV. CENTRAL SUPPORT UNIT                                  2,274,300       505,000       2,779,300        18        3
V. MONITRNG, EVALUAT.& DISSEM-N                             474,262       909,485       1,383,747        66        2
45,047,675    44,006,387     89,054,062        49      100
Physical Contingencies                                2,350,880      1,920,848      4,271,729        45        5
Price Contingencies                                   2,471,389      2,622,154      5,093,543        SI        6
49,869,944    48,549,390     98,419,334        49      111
MCH - Matemal and Child Health
QAS - Quality Assurance Systems
MIS - Management Information Systems



Page 96                                                                                            ANNEX 3.7
ANNEX 3.7: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Components Project Cost Summary
% Total
Health Reform Pilot Project                                                                              %
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                                    (US$)                    Foreign   Base
Local        Foreign        Total    Exchange  Costs
Investment Costs
Equipment and Supplies
Med.equipment & consumables                                 5,799,492    20,919,551    26,719,043      78       30
Office and communication equipment & consumables             548,733      2,743,665     3,292,398      83        4
Subtotal Equipment and Supplies                               6,348,225    23,663,216    30,011,441       79      34
Technical Assistance
Intemational experts                                               -      5,631,760    5,631,760      100        6
National experts                                            3,279,130            -     3,279,130         -       4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                 3,279,130     5,631,760     8,910,890       63      10
Civil Works                                                   8,510,579     2,158,391    10,668,970      20       12
Training
Study tours overseas                                               -       943,845       943,845      100        I
Local training & domestic travel                            4,059,220            -     4,059,220         -       5
Subtotal Training                                             4,059,220      943,845      5,003,065       19       6
Seminars/conferences/workshops                                 696,427        63,933       760,360         8       1
Teaching/training materials /a                                 684,444       224,220       908,664        25       1
Local Health Promotion Programs                               2,943,798      811,063      3,754,860      22        4
Incentive payment to medical providers                        1,819,827            -      1,819,827        -       2
Vehicles
Ambulances                                                    87,618      1,802,850     1,890,468      95        2
Medical Vehicles                                             523,008       536,310      1,059,318      51        1
Vehicles                                                     168,336       169,680       338,016       50        -
Subtotal Vehicles                                              778,962      2,508,840     3,287,802       76       4
Fumiture                                                       691,117        182,734      873,851        21       1
Total Investment Costs                                         29,811,727    36,188,002    65,999,729       55      74
Recurrent Costs
Med.equipment M&O                                             4,723,351     2,597,636     7,320,987      35        8
Office equipment M&O                                            87,270       204,981       292,251        70       1
Buildings M&O                                                 7,420,611      681,223      8,101,835        8       8
Staff salaries                                                2,231,393            -      2,231,393        -       3
Pharmaceuticals/reagents                                       725,043      4,380,620     5,105,663       86       6
Total Recurrent Costs                                          15,187,668     7,864,460    23,052,129       34      26
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           44,999,396    44,052,463    89,051,858       49      100
Physical Contingencies                                        2,353,051     1,920,881     4,273,932      45        5
Price Contingencies                                           2,466,242     2,643,673     5,109,915       52       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            49,818,689    48,617,016    98,435,705       49      111



ANNEX 3.7: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Components by Financiers                                                                                  z
(US$) 
Tver Oblast    Kaluga Oblast
The         IBRD            Administration  Administration   MSEI          MMA               Total                       Local   Duties &
Govermnent                                                                                                                   (Excl.
Amount  %       Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount   %   Amount  %    Amount   %               Amount    %         For.    Taxes)    Taxes
Exch.
1. HEALTH REFORM IN TVER OBLAST
A. CARDIO - VASCULAR HEALTH               0      -  10,916,723  83.0 2,228,692  17.0         -     -       -      -        -      -  13,145,415   13.3 9,540,020 2,847,737   757,658
B. FAMILY MEDICINE                        0      -   6,830,109  67.9 3,232,926  32.1         -     -       -      -        -      -  10,063,035   10.2 5,796,853  3,197,749  1,068,433
C. MCH                                    -0  -0.0   9,237,825  75.3 3,024,748  24.7         -     -       -      -         -     -  12,262,572    12.4 5,469,469 5,340,519  1,452,584
D. PROVIDER PAYMENTS, MIS, QAS            0      -   2,842,877  69.5  1,247,623  30.5        -     -       -      -        -      -   4,090,501    4.1  1,926,982  1,493,134   670,385
a/
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                0      -     171,001  42.2   234,224  57.8         -     -        -     -         -     -    405,225    0.4    80,829   242,811    81,586
Subtotal 1. HEALTH REFORM IN TVER            0      -  29,998,536  75.1  9,968,212  24.9        -     -       -      -         -     -  39,966,748   40.4 22,814,153 13,121,950 4,030,645
OBLAST
I.HEALTH REFORM IN KALUGA
OBLAST
A. PROVIDER PAYMENTS                      0      -   4,110,540  59.1         -     - 2,842,533  40.9       -      -         -     -   6,953,074    7.0  1,533,122 3,880,938  1,539,014
B. DELIVER SYSTEM                          0     -  15,243,015  52.5         -     - 13,785,849  47.5      -      -         -     -  29,028,864   29.4 13,121,003 12,042,691  3,865,170
RESTRUCTURING
C. MCH                                    0      -  10,542,217  88.2         -     - 1,414,267  11.8       -      -        -      -  11,956,484   12.1  7,110,668  3,684,037  1,161,778
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                0      -     104,223  35.8         -     -   186,952  64.2       -      -         -     -    291,176    0.3    66,785   162,515    61,876
Subtotal ILHEALTH REFORM IN                  0      -  29,999,996  62.2         -     - 18,229,602  37.8      -      -        -      -  48,229,597   48.8 21,831,579 19,770,181  6,627,837
YALUGA OBLAST
L.NATIONAL FM PROGRAM                        0      -   3,124,473  61.0         -     -         -     -       -     - 1,999,585  39.0   5,124,058    5.2 3,061,261  1,428,456   634,342
IV. CENTRAL SUPPORT UNIT                461,353  13.2   3,029,194  86.8         -     -         -     -       -     -         -      -   3,490,547    3.5  1,659,654  1,369,540   461,353
V. MONITRNG, EVALUAT.& DISSEM-N              0      -   1,810,261  86.7         -     -         -     - 276,506  13.3         -      -   2,086,766    2.1   903,716   976,987   206,063
Total Disbursement                       461,353   0.5  69,962,459  68.7 9,968,212  10.1 18,229,602  18.4 276,506   0.3  1,999,585   2.0  100,897,717   100.0 50,270,362 38,667,114 11,960,240
_/ QAS - Quality Assurance Systems, MIS- Managem.Inform.Systems



ANNEX 3.7: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Project Components by Year - Base Cost (US$)
1997          1991          1999           2000          2001           2002          Total
I. HEALTH REFORM IN TVER OBLAST
A. CARDIO - VASCULAR HEALTH                             221,274      3,172,041     4,969,110      1,673,792       865,907        835,713     11,737,835
B. FAMILY MEDICINE                                      166,412       533,114      3,472,245      2,787,423      1,123,958       664,404      8,747,557
C. MCH                                                1,223,128      2,809,116     4,383,541        937,402       813,069        568,148     10,734,404
D. PROVIDER PAYMENTS. MIS, QAS a/                        82,011       977,791        832,121        396,651       683,481        619,044      3,591,097
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                              129,718        50,669         47,395         45,398        44,302         44,470        361,952
Subtotal I. HEALTH REFORM IN TVER OBLAST                 1,822,542     7,542,730     13,704,411     5,840,665      3,530,717     2,731,779     35,172,844
II.HEALTH REFORM IN KALUGA OBLAST
A. PROVIDER PAYMENTS                                    262,336      1,070,018       826,415        641,695      1,406,881     2,077,326      6,284,672
B. DELIVER SYSTEM RESTRUCTURING                         902,828      2,281,513     8,248,473      6,289,170     4,237,358      2,829,078     24,788,419
C. MCH                                                   36,666      2,856,793     3,933,633      1,747,597      1,058,294     1,043,395     10,676,377
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                              100,271        33,670         32,475         31,380        31,529         31,056        260,381
Subtotal II.HEALTH REFORM IN KALUGA OBLAST              1,302,101      6,241,994     13,040,997     8,709,841      6,734,062     5,980,855     42,009,849
111.NATIONAL FM PROGRAM                                 1,061,633        567,258       440,571        868,764      1,185,464       364,324      4,488,012
IV. CENTRAL SUPPORT UNIT                                  677,990        645,700       564,913        502,633       489,878        279,390      3,160,503
V. MONITRNG, EVALUAT.& DISSEM-N                           379,009        450,807       153,012        515,473       236,335        146,253      1,880,888
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     5,243,274     15,448,488    27,903,903     16,437,376    12,176,456      9,502,601     86,712,097
Physical Contingencies                                  454,184      1,016,076     1,513,186        903,996       555,035        378,507      4,820,984
Price Contingencies                                      94,715       699,077      2,058,348      1,640.602      1,502,075     1,369,818      7,364,635
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      5,792,173    17,163,641     31,475,437     18,981,974    14,233,566     11,250,926    100,897,717
Taxes                                                   933,290      2,113,995     2,873,628      2,225,284     2,050,080      1,763,963     11,960,240
Foreign Exchange                                      2,133,361      9,002,1%     20,499,596      9,224,669     5,604,364      3,806,177     50,270,362
a/ QAS - Quality Assurance Systems, MIS- Managem.Inform.Systems
z
z



ANNEX  3.7: Detailed Project Cost Estimates                                                                         z
z
Local/Foreign/Taxes by Financiers
Tver Oblast           Kaluga Oblast
The Government       IBRD                    Administration        Administration     MSEI                 MMA                   Total
Amount    %         Amount        %       Amount         %        Amount       %     Amount    %         Amount         %      Amount       %
1. Foreign                         -0  -0.0      46,680,874    92.9    1,200,357       2.4    1,939,004     3.9   56,390      0.1        393,738     0.8  50,270,362     50.8
11. Local (Excl. Taxes)           -0  -0.0       23,281,586    58.0    4,737,211      12.9    9,662,760    26.4   14,052        -        971,506     2.6  38,667,114    37.1
III. Taxes                    461,353    3.9              -       -    4,030,645      33.7    6,627,837    55.4  206,063      1.7        634,342     5.3  11,960,240     12.1
Total Project                   461,353    0.5      69,962,459    68.7    9,968,212      10.1   18,229,602    18.4  276,506     0.3       1,999,585    2.0  100,897,717    100.0



Page 100                                                                                    ANNEX 3.8
ANNEX 3.8: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
A. DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE*
Year                       Period                  Projected Disbursements           Disbursements.
(in US$ million)           Cumulative
fin US$ million)
1997
November - December                         0                        0
1998
January - June                          1.4                     1.4
July - December                          3.9                    5.3
January - June                           6                     11.3
July - December                           6                    17.3
January - June                          11.8                   29.1
July - December                         11.8                   40.9
January - June                          5.8                   46.7
July - Decemebr                          5.8                   52.5
January - June                          3.7                    56.2
July - December                          3.7                   59.9
January - June                              2.5                   62.4
July - December                             2.5                   64.9
2004     1          January - Apil                              1.1                   66.0
* Assumes loan effectiveness by November 1, 1 997
B. DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
100
90 -                                      v
'g  804-
704
602
5 50 -                                                                            Health projects,
co                                                                                Bank profile(%
fi  30-/-Russia Health
o   30                                                                            Reform Pilot
o                                                                                 Project (%)
20                                                                        _  _   _  _  _  _
10 -
0
-                  CO n  t  e  (D     CO OC  0   _  N  C)      CD a)D     CO
Semesters
(after Board approval)



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
z
z
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                         LOCATION AND               IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES             RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
KALUGA SUB-PROJECT.
A. DELIVERY SYSTEM
RESTRUCTURING
COMPONENT
1. Introducine General
Practice
1.1 Training of Trainers:                                    (a) Overseas study tour. One   (a) PCC (candidates       4Pham.Phys.s-
(a) General Practice Management: 4 Fam.Physicians, Y1;       month                          selection); CSU -         Trainers trained
(b) Kaluga City - at one of   contract; PMU - logistics
(b) Clinical Practice Management, Quality of Diagnostic and  new Pham.Phys.'s offices;
treatment within new environment of Fam.Phys. practice: on-site  One month                  (b) PMU (TOR);
training for 4 Fam.Phys.-Trainers, beginning of Year 2. By 2                                CSU (TA contracts);
international consultants (Pham.Phys.s)
1.2 Training of Practitioners:
(a)  General  Practice  Management:  Workshops  for  31  (a) Kaluga City; respective       (a) Kaluga PMU, OHA        ( a )        3  1
Pham.Phys.s. Year 3 and Year 5 - Kaluga City; Maloyaroslavsky  rayons;                                                Pham . Phys . s
and Ferzikovsky (pilot rayons); Year 4 and Year 6 - Medynsky  Duration - 2 weeks each                                 trained;
and Baryatinsky. Training program  will be prepared and  workshop.                                                    10   workshops
workshops will be conducted by 4 Pham.Phys.s-Trainers.                                                                conducted
(b) Upgrading professional skills of 10 Pham.Phys.s in remote  (b) Existing training courses    (b) PMU,CSU           ( b  )       I 0
areas: training in additional basic specialties. Year 5      (Moscow, St.Petersburg, Tver                             P h a m . Ph y s .s
Medical Academy). I month                               trained
CD
0)



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
.Q
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
2. Establishing Group      2.1 Training in Group Practice Model Management:
Practice                                                                                                             (a) PCC (TOR, Choice of  193  practitioners
(a) Training of Trainers- 3 doctors, Year 2.                                              the sites to visit) with  and  3  Trainers
(a) Overseas;                 CSU and Bank's           trained
(b) Training of Practitioners: 3 Trainers and I doctor, who had  Duration - I month.      recommendations.
completed an existing upgrading training program at the MMA                               Logistics arrangements -
will train 158 doctors and 35 nurses from 23 group practices.                             CSU (contracts) and
International consultant will participate in the preparation of the  (b) Kaluga City;     Kaluga PMU.
training course materials and in training of the first group of  Duration  - 2  weeks each
practitioners. Participants will be trained in groups of 20 people  course.               (b) PMU; Trainers
each. Year 3 - I group; Year 4 - 3 groups, Year 5 - 3 groups;
Year 6 - 3 groups.
3. Seting-up               3.1 Organization and Management of Diagnostic and Treatment  Overseas; I month each tour.   CSU (contracts), PMU,   9 trained
Consultation, Diagnostic    centers: 9 CDTCs directors. Yearl - 4 people; Year3 - 5.                                  Bank's recommendations.
and treatment Centers
(CDTCs)
3.2 Equipment O&M: X-ray, ultra sound, laboratory and  Kaluga CDTCs;                       PMU, OHA. Directors    72 specialists
endoscopy. Workshops  will be  conducted  by  equipment  Maloyaroslavsky  CDTC  for  of CDTCs                       trained
manufacturer.  8 specialists (two per discipline) from  each  specialists from rayons.
CDTC. Year 2 - 32 docs, Kaluga CDTCs; Year 3 - 40 docs from   Duration - 2 weeks.
5 rayons. Follow-up training - of Year 4 (Kaluga), Year 5
(rayons).
4. Improvine level of the    4.1 Training in Management of Inpatient Care Facilities:
manarement at the rayon    I doc from each rayon hospital (5 in the project, though new
and district hosoitois     equipment will be procured only for the hospital in I pilot rayon)  Overseas study tour.   OHA, CSU, PMU            9 trained
and district hospitals (4 total and 2 in the project), Year 4 (5 chief  Duration - one month
physicians from rayon hospitals) and Year 5 (4 chief physicians
from district hospitals).
5. Settine up a Day        5.1 Techniques in day surgery: 6 nurses, Year 3;             5.1 Kaluga Nursing School;    5.1 and 5.2 Kaluga       6 nurses;
Surgery Center                                                                          Duration - I month;           PMU; Chief of the Day    3 doctors;               z
5.2 Ambulatory surgery techniques: 3 doctors, professional skills  5.2 Moscow, St.Petersburg or  Surgery Center;    1 chief physician        Z
t.11
upgrading, Year 3;                                          Tver Medical Academies;                                 trained
Duration - I month;          Kaluga PMU; CSU
5.3 Organizational and managerial skills in ambulatory care  5.3 Overseas; 2 weeks.                                                          _
surgery: Head of the Center, Year 2



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
z
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED                      z
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
6. Uperadinz professional   6.1 Upgrading clinical skills:
skils of the staff of
Emereencv Hospital of      (a)Vascular surgery - I doc, general surgery- 1 doc; Year 2.   (a) Overseas;               OHA, PMU, CSU             5 specialists
Kaluga Municiwalitv        Endoscopy - I doc, traumatology - I doc, urology- 1; Year 3.   Duration - one month;                                 trained
(b) Kaluga Emergency
(b) Clinical workshops will be conducted by 5 national      Hospital; 1 month each.
consultants - specialists in surgical techniques and reanimation
care, during Year 3 (two workshops) and Year 4 (three).
B. Provider Incentives     1.1 Training of Providers (FM and Pham.Phys.s) in new        On-site training. 1 month of    OHA, PMU                416   providers
Component                  payment and organizational models, financial management of   training per person                                    trained
practice and at-risk arrangements, basic cost and management
1. Provider Payment        accounting, management of staff and flow-of-funds, business
Systems                    planning and budgeting. Year 2-5 in Kaluga City, Year 2-3 in
Ferzikovsky and Maloyaroslavsky r-ons, Year 4 - other pilot
rayons
1.2 Training of Mangers in principles of faculty autonomy,  On-site training. I month of    OHA, PMU                432   managers,
management accounting systems, business planning, budgeting    training per person                                  incl.15 staff from
and financial management; utilization management, cost                                                              THIF and 5 from
accounting and its users. Year 2-5 in Kaluga, Year 2-3 in Ferz.                                                     OHA, trained
and Maloyar. rayons, Year 4 - other rayons
2. Management and          2.1 Training of MIS users:                                   On-site training. I month of    PCC, PMU               797 users, incI 100
Information systems (MIS)  (a) Data entry users from THIF, OHA and provider sites; Years  training per person                                   from Kaluga City,
2-5;                                                                                                                trained
(b) Physicians/users from provider sites; Years 2-5
3. Oualitv of Care         3.1 Certification and Licensure: 20 experts will go on       Overseas. 2 weeks            PCC, CSU                  20 experts trained
study tours to examine altemative models of Facility/Provider
Certification and Licensure Standards; Year 2 and 3
3.2 TA (ext) in Certification and Licensure: to design model for  On-site. 2 weeks each trip  PCC, CSU, PMU         New   K a lug a
kaluga oblast and assist in implementation steps. 3 consultants@                                                    models  designed
2 weeks each; Year 2                                                                                                and implemented
3.3 Training for managers and leaders on new models of      On-site. I week each          PCC, PMU                  50   specialists |
Certification and Licensure; 2 groups of 25 people; Years 2-3  workshop                                             trained



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
(YQ
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                           LOCATION AND               IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION                RESPONSIBILITIES             RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
3.4 Development of clinical Standards:                        (a) On-site, 2 weeks each;     PCC, CSU, PMU              (a) New  clinical
(a) TA(ext.) to develop new clinical guidelines using Western                                                           s t a n d a r d s
approaches; focus on high volume, high impact clinical areas of  (b) Kaluga, I month training                           developed  in  6
care; 3 consultants for 2 weeks each; Years 2-4;              for each specialist;                                      diagnostic areas of
care;
(b) Training in methods of developing improved clinical       (c) existing course in                                    (b)  100  spec-s
guidelines, using international experts' work as case studies; 20   Moscow, St.Pet. or Tver                             trained
specialists each year; Years 2-6;                             Med.Academies
(c) Professional upgrading for physicians.
3.5 Quality Review:                                           (a) Overseas. 2 weeks each     PCC, CSU, PMU              (a)   8   people
(a) 8 people from THIF will go on a study tour to identify and   tour;                                                  trained;
design system of quality review, such as quality indicators
system for assuring and improving quality, especially in the  (b) On-site course. 2 weeks                               (b)  172  persons
context of new payment incentives, organizational restructuring,   each                                                 trained
MIS systems; Years 1-2;
(b) Training in system of quality review for assuring and
improving quality for THIF (12 branches @ 3 persons each) and
for 40 from insurance companies; Years 2-5
z
nri



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
z
ACTIVITIES           SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                      LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION            EXPECTED              Z
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES          RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
C. MCH and FP             1.1 Training of providers in antenatal counseling and new  1.1 (a) Kaluga City;         Kaluga Health Promotion  (a) 175 providers
COMPONENT                 approaches to antenatal care:                              Core course will be developed  Unit assisted  by OHA   trained
by  the   Kaluga   Health  (MCH  Department) and
1. Improvine antenatal    (a) Core training course in new methods of care will be prepared  Promotion Unit which will be  PMU
care                      and conducted by the Maternity and Child Center which is going  set up under the project.
to be set up under the project. All obstetrician-gynecologists and  Duration - one week each
midwives will be trained. The course will be a series of three  seminar;
one-week seminars on:
- counseling pregnant women;                              (b) Existing course in Moscow;
- complications of pregnancy;                             Duration - 4 weeks.                                    (b) 36 providers
- gynecological problems.                                                                                       trained
Participants will be trained in groups of 20 people each. The  (c) Existing course at Savior's
series will be offered five times over Year 3 and Year 4 of the  Hospital in Moscow, which is a
project to cover all staff. It will be repeated in Year 5 and Year 6  partner of Magee Women's                  (c) 12 providers
for new  obstetrician-gynecologists and midwives, and for  Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, USA;                        trained
therapists and for Pham.Phys.                             Duration of the course - 2
weeks.
(b) Training in ultrasound screening will be arranged for 36 for
obstetrician-gynecologists during Year 2.                 (d) Existing course in Moscow;                         (d) 28 providers
Duration - 2 weeks                                    trained
(c) Training in counseling techniques for 12 obstetrician-
gynecologists will take place during Year 2.              (e)  Kaluga  City,  Medical                           (e) 46 providers
College for Midwives                                 trained
(d) Training  in treating extragenital complications during  Duration - I week
pregnancy for 28 therapists will be scheduled for the beginning of
Year 3.
(e) Training in antenatal care for 46 midwives will be held at the
Medical College for Midwives in Kaluga City
1.2 Seminars on specific topics in antenatal care; Years 4 - 6  Kaluga City;           Kaluga Health Promotion  6 seminars        l 
(twice a year). Seminars plan and topics for discussions will be  Duration : 3-5 days  U n it,  OH A (M C H 
prepared at the beginning of each year by the Health Promotion                         Department), PMU
Unit as part of the development of the work plan of the unit.                                                        l__



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
l___________________                                     (INDICATORS)
2. Improvini Perinatul     2.1 Training of providers:
Care
Implementing the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative: TA (ext) will  2.1  It is expected that the  OHA (MCH Department);  5   workshops
be provided  in  10 target maternity  homes to encourage  training will be arranged either  PMU  assisted by CSU;  conducted; all staff
breastfeeding and adopt other changes in maternity homes  by UNICEF or WHO/Europe   WHO/Europe                      of ten maternity
routines. A series of five workshops will be held over Year 3, 4                                                    homes trained
and 5 to establish the Initiative within the oblast and train
maternity home staff in implementing the BFHI principles in their
hospitals.
2.2 Training in Neonatal Resuscitation.
(a) Training of Trainers: I physician from  each of the 23  2.2 This oblast-wide program   Kaluga Oblast Maternity  (a) 27 Trainers
maternity departments in the rayons, I physician from each of the  will be developed, established  H o me,   OH A ( M C H   trained
municipal maternity home, the Oblast maternity home and the  and supervised by the Kaluga  Department), logistics -
municipal children's hospital will be trained as trainers. 2 weeks  Oblast  Regional  Maternity  PMU                (b) 175 specialists
of a national consultant TA will be provided to facilitate the  Home.                                               trained
materials development and   conducting the training. After
completion of the course they will be required to teach this course  Duration:
on a regular basis. TOT will be done in three groups of 9 during  (a) a week,
Year 2.                                                     (b) 3 days.
(b) Training of Practitioners: Completed training of all
physicians, nurses, and midwives would be accomplished over the
next two years (Year 3 and 4 of the project). Retraining will take
place in Year 5 and Year 6. This training is expected to result in
improved resuscitation of all newborns who require it, leading to
decreased morbidity and mortality from asphyxia, hypoxia, birth
trauma, and prematurity.
2.3  Training in management of labor and anesthesiology and  (c) Existing courses at Moscow   OHA (MCH Department),  70   providers
reanimation  of women   for obstetrician-gynecologists  and  Medical Institutes;          Oblast Maternity Home,  trained
midwives from the ten target maternity homes during Year 2 and  Duration - 2 weeks        PMU                                                >
Year 3.                                                                                                                                      Z
tT1
2.4 Training in management of premature labor: for          Existing courses at Moscow   OHA (MCH),                 16 providers             C
16 obstetrician-gynecologists from oblast maternity homes   Medical Institutes;           PMU                       trained
Years 2-3;                                                  Duration - I week



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED                         Z
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
2.5 Improving care in the oblast maternity homes:           Kaluga;                       Oblast Maternity Home,  staff of at least ten
TA (ext., midwife) for a day-to-day guidance on improving care  Duration - three months   OHA, CSU;                 target maternities
in the maternity homes, as well as small training on-site courses                         IBRD OKs the choice of a  will receive day-
on specific topics. A midwife (preferably European) will be reside                        consultant                to-day guidance
in Kaluga for three months period during Year 2.                                                                   1
2.6 Training in organization of obstetric services and emergency  Overseas (Europe);      OHA, PMU,CSU              3 managers trained
referral:                                                   Duration - I month;
3 key administrators (Oblast Chief Obstetrician-Gynecologist,
Chief of the Oblast Maternity Home and Chief of the Municipal
Maternity Home) will go on a study tour during Year 3.
2.7 Training in eQuipment operating and maintenance:        Maternity homes in Kaluga      Equipment manufacture;   proper  use  of
will be included into the purchasing contract for medical  oblast;                        PMU,CSU - logistics       equipment will be
equipment for maternity homes and communication equipment for  Duration : 5-7 days                                  ensured
upgrading referral system for transfer of emergencies. It will be
conducted by a manufacture, following the installation and testing
of the equipment.                                                                                                                     l
3. Improving family        3.1 Provider training in family planning methods and counselling:  (a) Kaluga Family Planning  Kaluga Family Planning  (a) 1100 providers
planning and reproductive    (a) for 1100 nurses, midwives, feldshers, school nurses; Year 2;  Center; one week       Center, Health Promotion  trained
health services                                                                                                       Unit,   Professional
(b) to be followed by one/two days seminars for midwives and  (b) Kaluga,                 Training Unit             (b) 25 workshops
school nurses from within Kaluga City;                      I or 2 days seminars                                    conducted
(c) Specialized, in-depth training for 40 nurses; Years 2-3;  (c) Kaluga Nursing School                             (c) 40 nurses
Duration - 2 weeks                                 trained
(d) Courses for 50 obstetrician-gynecologists (24 from Kaluga  (d) Kaluga;
City and 26 from rayons)  will be prepared and conducted in  Duration - one week.                                   (d) 50 specialists
coordination  with the Russian  Academy  for post-graduate                                                          upgraded
training.
Year 3 - Kaluga  Year4 - Rayons                                                                                    __
3.2 Training in lavaroscopy surgery: 4 specialists (2 Kaluga  Moscow                      Municipal  Maternity  4 docs trained
from municipal maternity home and 2 from Ludinovsky maternity  One week                   home,  Family Planning
home) will be trained at the existing course at the Moscow                                Center, PMU
Medical Institute (beginning of Year 3)                                                                                                       o



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
ACTIVITIES           SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND             IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES           RESULTS
l__________________           ________________          (INDICATORS)
3.3 Experiment on incorporating diagnosis and treatment of STDs
into Women's Consultations:
(a) Additional training for staff of 4 women's consultations and  (a) Moscow. Central Institute   (a)  Family   Planning  (a)10 specialists
the Family Planing Center (2 from  each) will consist of  for Venerology;                Center, PMU              from  women's
specialized course in venerology (Year 2, Year 3, and Year 4);  Duration - one month                              consultations
(b) Workshops on STD/RTI counseling, diagnosis, and treatment  (b) Kaluga Oblast AIDS    (b) Kaluga Oblast AIDS   (b) 2 workshops,
will be held twice during project life (Year 3 and Year 4) to  center;                   center, Family Planning  40 participants
accommodate all staff of the women's consultations and the  Duration - 3-5 days          Center, PMU
Family Planning Center.  Workshop will be prepared and
conducted with the support of external consultant - specialist in
STD treatment. 20 people per session.
4. Improving antenatal     4.1 Trainine of providers in antenatal counseline and new   1.1 Kaluga                   Kaluga Maternity and      750 providers
care                       approaches to antenatal care:                                                            child Center; assisting by  trained
PMU
(a) Core training course will be prepared and conducted by the
Maternity and Child Center which is going to be set up under
the project.
4.2 Antenatal classes for expecting parents will be conducted by
the trained providers (obstetrician - gynecologists and
midwives). A training room will be set up in each of twenty-five
maternity homes throughout the oblast                      1.2 (a) Location of the
training rooms:
TVER SUB-PROJECT
A. CARDIO-VASCULAR         1.1 (a) Conference workshop to develop a new curriculum for  Tver Medical Academy        (a,b)  Tver  Medical  600 physicians
HEALTH COMPONENT           TMA; Year 1. Assistance from  the Moscow  Institute for                                  Academy;  Director  of  trained and re-
Prevention.  Targets  for  the  new   curriculum   include                               Education;               trained
1. Prevention of           undergraduates, physicians retraining and training for actively                         (c) Center for Health                             >
Cardiovascular Disease     practicing physicians;                                                                   Information and TMA                             z
(b) Undergraduate and graduate training for nurses and feldshers;                                                                        z
Years 2-6;                                                                                                                               X
l_____________  (c) Risk reduction courses for physicians                                                                                                      l _
2. Public Informafion and  2.1 Strategic Planning Conference; Year l; To develop a five  PCC, TMA, Center for Health  a strategy plan developed
Education                 year strategy for public information and education. lp/m of ext.  Information  f
l                   ~~~~TAl
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
z
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED                        3
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS               X
(INDICATORS)
3. Emerizencv Care         3.1 Training for the staff of Ambulance Center:              (a) Overseas; I month;        (a) PCC; CSU;             (a) two  trainers
(b) Ambulance Center, Tver;  (b) Ambulance  Center;  trained;
(a) Training of Trainers: study tour; Year 2; 2 people;     (c) on-site training; Tver city  PMU;                   (b) 2000 ambu-
(b) Training of all emergency response physicians, feldshers,  and rayons                 (c) Ambulance Center      lance personnel
nurses; Year 24;                                                                                                    trained
(c) Training of local police and firemen; Year 4-6             _                       _
4. Improvint Intensive     4.1 Training of primary care physicians regarding optimal use of  Intensive care departments  OHA;  Center  for  all primary physi-
Care                       the ambulance system and the capabilities of the local reanimation                         Information               cians re-trained
units
B. FAMILY MEDICINE
COMPONENT                                                                                                                                                        l
1. Development of Family   (a) Establishing a 'Chair of Family Medicine' comparable to  Two   person   months  of  Tver Medical Academy.   Establishment of
Medicine Education         other academic departments within the academy, including:    external, and 6 pm of national                          "FM Chair" at
* Development of an organizational plan for the Chair;   technical assistance  will be  TMA  will work closely  TMA;
* Design of a conceptual model of family medicine  provided to TMA.  4 study  with  Moscow   Medical
practice; and                                       tours, of 2 to 4 weeks duration,  Academy for curriculum   Equipped 2 FM
* Designing and equipping 2 Family Medicine Teaching  will examine issues in FM   design and the collection  Teaching Clinics;
Clinics as demonstration sites for training, curriculum   organization, financing, and  of  teaching  materials.  Refined FM
design, and faculty preparation.                    program management.           TMA faculty will also be  Curriculum;
selected to participate in  Library of FM
(b) Refine the curriculum  for training and retraining family  An additional 1 pm of external  study tours and foreign  teaching materials
practitioners, including the introduction of advanced teaching  TA will be provided to assist  training   opportunities  at TMA;
methods and materials.                                      TMA  in curriculum  design.  funded under the MMA
* MMA will organize a series of seminars and workshops  Up to 5 study tours will also be  FM Sub-Project.    9 - 14 TMA
(10 in total) involving representatives of TMA, Kaluga,  conducted   to   support                          faculty who have
and other affiliated Oblasts.                       curriculum design and faculty                          participated in
development.                                           study tours
(c) Strengthening the qualifications and skills of faculty who will
serve as teachers and trainers of family practitioners.
* TMA faculty will participate in seminars and workshops
- as organized by MMA and others
0E



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
ACTIVITIES           SUIMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                     LOCATION AND             IMPLEMENTATION             EXPECTED
DURATION              RESPONSIBILITIES           RESULTS
--____ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __   ____ ___(INDICATORS)
2. Establishment of Family  The first doctors qualified in FM  graduated from  Tver's  Tver and various sites in Tver  The Tver Oblast Health  5 0   f a m i I y
Medicine Climcs           retraining program in 1995. About 10 graduates are expected  Oblast.                    Authority, in consultation  medicine practices
each year. Over the life of the project, up to 50 family medicine  2 p/month of TA (ext)will be  with  TMA  and  local  established   and
practices will be established in clinics and polyclinics throughout  provided to assist in clinic  health  authorities,  will  equipped in clinics
Tver Oblast. The project will support workshops to train family  design   and   equipment  select clinical sites.  and polyclinics
practitioners in clinic organization and management.      specification, to design and
organize a series of workshops
Alternative provider payment systems, that encourage the  on  clinic  organization  and
financial support of family medicine clinics, will be developed  management. Year 3
under the Tver Sub-Project component on Restructuring Provider
Incentives.
C. MCH COMPONENT          Training in antenatal counseling and new approaches to antenatal  a) Overseas study tour; I moth;  a)PCC;CSU;PMU;  5 2   T r a in e r s
care:                                                     Year2;                       b,c)  Health  promotion  trained;
1. ImDrovinr antenatal    a) for staff at Health promotion and professional education  b,c) Health promotion center;  center               350   providers
care                      coordination center,                                                                                             trained
b) Antenatal classes for expecting parents: Training of trainers;
Year 1-3;
c) for providers; Year 2-3
2. Introducinr Baby       2.1 a) Provider training will be conducted in the maternity homes  a) on-site training; Tver  OHA, PMU;          100   providers
Friendly Hospital Initiative  of 20 rayons and 5 maternities of Tver. These are the same                          Maternity homes          trained;
facilities that will have the antenatal classes for parents;  b)  one-week  course  in                          2 Trainers trained;
b)Training of trainers in the psychological aspects of labor and  Moscow;                                        10 workshops
delivery; Year 2 ;                                        c) Tver
c) workshops in Tver for physicians from the rayons ( I p/month
of TA ext. will be provided)
2.2 Training in basic neonatal resuscitation:              a) Oblast children hospital; 3-  OHA;  Oblast  children  40 trainers trained
a) Training of trainers; 40 obstetrician-gyns from 9 maternities in  day course; once per month  hospital
Tver city , 26 from rayons, 3 from the Neonatal Intensive Care  over 4 months
Units in Tver municipal children's hospital and the Tver oblast
children's hospital; Yeras 2-3                                                                                                          >
z
3. Rzhev Perinatal Center  3.1 (a) Training in clinical standards; 12 p/months of ext.TA;  a) Rzhev Center;       a) Chief Physician, Rzhev  all staff of Rzhev    Z
Year 3-4;                                                 b) Overseas on-site training  Center; CSU;            Center trained;
(b) training for equipment maintenance engineer and building                          b) Rzhev  chief phys.;
maintenance engineer                                                                   CSU                                       l      _



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
z
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED                       z
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS             X
(INDICATORS)
4. Family Planning and  4.1 Provider training will be conducted through seminars on  Tver                             FP Center; PMU            350 ob-gyn trained
Reproductive Health        specific topics. 10 one week seminars are planned (2 per year);
b) A core course on FP and reproductive health will be developed
for all obstetrician-gynecologists                         I_I_I
D. PROVIDER                1.(a) Information Center staff training in network development.  Tver Information  Center, I     PCC, PMU            (a) 7 staff trained;
INCENTIVES                 management and administration; Year 2 and 3;                 month                                                  (b) 15 p/months of
COMPONENT                                                                                                                                       TA
(b) TA (nat) to train and provide assistance in application of
system software, network management and administration
1. MIS: Central
Processinj Information
Center
2. MIS: Application        2. MIS related to New Methods of Payment and Economics:     (a) In-country; locations to be    PCC, PMU,CSU          (a) 2 internships;
Programs                   (a) 1-2 year internship programs at Health Insurance institutes or  determined;                                      (b)  15  persons
Territorial Funds in other Russian oblasts; Years 3-4       (b) Kemerovo, Samara, Altai                             trained
(b) Site visits and training on alternative models and approaches;   Krai
3. MIS: Implementation     3. Training of Users:                                       In-country,   (20 people @           PCC, PMU            (a) 249 data entry
and Evaluation             (a) data entry users from THIF, OHA , provider sites; Year 2-5;  each), (a) 2 weeks course(b) I                      clerks trained;
week course                                             ( b )    4 3 o
(b) physicians/users from provider sites; Years 2-5                                                                 physicians/users
4. Provider Payment and    4.1 Evaluation of Pilot Sites Program; TA; 4 Russian health care  Tver                        PCC,PMU; MSEI          Integrating results
Ouality Assurance          experts for 15-20 days each;                                                                                         i n t o   B a n k
implem.strategy
4.2   Training:  in  alternative   payments  and   quality  (a) Overseas study tour, 2        PCC, PMU,CSU          10 leaders trained
assurance/improvement systems, to focus on models that help  weeks
refine and improve models developed in pilot site program; 5
people; Year 2;
4.3  Conference  on  alternative  payment systems  for 20  In-country; 15 days including         PCC, PMU           20 leaders trained
participants, Year 3; TA  (nat., 2) and TA  (ext, 2) to  preparation
participate/teach at conference; TA                                                                                                         _



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
l__________________           ________________           (INDICATORS)
5. Payment System Design   5.1 (a) TA (ext. 6 p/month) and TA (nat., 6 p/month) in  Tver                                 PCC, PMU, CSU          40 leaders trained
financing/payment systems, evenly divided between inpatient and
outpatient systems; Year 3;
(b) Training of local counterparts in design issues related to
payment systems
6. Payment System          6.1 Implementation: TA  (ext., 3 p/month) and TA (nat., 6  Tver, provider sites               PCC, PMU, CSU          Implementation of
Imnplementation            p/month) to assist in refining and implementing new payment                                                          altern.paym.syste
systems; Years 3-4                                                                                                  ms beyond pilot
models            l
6.2 Evaluation/Refinement: TA(ext., 2 p/months) and TA (nat., 4  Tver                     PCC, PMU, CSU; Close  Integration   of 1
p/month) to evaluate success and needed adjustments following                              coordination with MSEI   needed refinements
implementation of new payment models; Years 3-4 
7. Facility Management     7.1 Facility Managers training in principles of facility autonomy,  In-country; 25 managers per  PCC, PMU,CSU        100   f a c i I i t y
Training                 | management accounting systems, business planning, budgeting,  year; 3 months course                                 managers trained
and  financial  management;  utilization  management,  cost
| accounting and its uses; Years 2-5
8. OuaQit                  8.1 Quality Indicators Development:                          Tver oblast                      PCC, PMU, CSU            Set of usable
Assurance/lImprovement      TA(ext., lp/month) and TA (nat., 2 p/month) to identify and                                                             indicators
Systems                    design quality indicators system  for assuring and improving
quality, especially in the context of new payment incentives,
organizational restructuring, MIS systems; Year 2;
NATIONAL PROGRAM           A major goal of Russia's health care reform effort is to shift the                         MMA  is responsible for implementing this
IN FAMILY MEDICINE    emphasis from hospitalization and curative care toward outpatient                               subproject. MMA will establish a partnership
SUB-PROJECT.               and preventive services. To help accomplish this goal, Russia                              with a prominent training institution abroad.
intends to increase the proportion of its doctors and nurses who                          The  'Academic Partner' will broker and
are trained to provide family centered health care.                                       coordinate all foreign technical assistance and
training provided to MMA to assist in achieving   >
The subcomponent will support development of training programs                            subproject objectives.                            z
in family centered health care at Sechenov Moscow Medical                                                                                   z
Academy (MMA) and a network of up to eight affiliated regional                                                                              X
medical academies and training programs.  MMA will work                                                                                     4hA
directly with Kaluga and Tver Oblasts, providing advice and                                                                           l
support in the development of their family medicine programs.



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
z
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED                       Z
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
A. REFINING MODELS    A.1. Family Practice Model                                                                      A  Task Force will be  A refined model of
OF FAMILY PRACTICE                                                                      Moscow, Tver, Kaluga;         appointed   by   MMA,  practice for family
Document the current model of medical practice in Russia and                              reporting to the Subproject  doctors and nurses
refine the model of Family Medicine practice, as defined in                               director. Representatives  to be used to guide
MOHMI Order #237 of August 26, 1992, so that it accurately  A total of 2.5 person months of  of Tver and Kaluga will  the development of
reflects Russia's unique cultural and economic conditions. Two  external,  and  2.5  person  also participate.      curricula   and
international experts in family medicine will  assist MMA   months of national technical                            training methods,
representatives in:                                         assistance will be provided over  The Academic Partner, in  supportive  work
2 years. Duration of each TA   consultation with MMA,  environments,
(a) Describing the populations to be served by family doctors and  visit - one for three weeks and  will select advisors  to  equipment needs,
nurses,                                                     a second for two weeks.       work with the Task Force.  and   appropriate
financing
(b) Defining the services they are to provide and the methods,                                                      mechanisms.
facilities, and equipment needed to support their practice,
(c) Defining their referral relationships with other primary
practitioners and medical specialists, and
(d) Defining the roles of family practitioners in polyclinics and
hospitals.
B. CURRICULUM AND    B.l. Curriculum Development.                                       B.l.  Moscow,  Tver,  and  B. l.  MMA.           The  B.l.  Curriculum
FACULTY                                                                                 Kaluga.  TA(ext.,  15.5   Academic  Partner  will  for training  and
DEVELOPMENT                Based on the model of Family Medicine practice, a refined    p/months) and TA(nat, 8.5 p/  assist  MMA   in  the  retraining  family
curriculum for training and retraining family doctors and nurses   months); over 5 years, to assist  identification,  selection,  d o c to r s  a n d
will be introduced at MMA and up to eight associated Oblasts -   MMA and associated Oblasts   and   coordination   of  nurses.
including Tver and Kaluga. The new curriculum will define                                 technical  assistance
admission policies, educational goals, curriculum content,                                personnel,  study  tour
teaching methods, required materials, mechanisms, and                                     sites,   and   training
relationships with other medical school faculties.                                        opportunities.



ANNEX 4.1: Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
ACTIVITIES            SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT                        LOCATION AND              IMPLEMENTATION    EXPECTED
DURATION               RESPONSIBILITIES            RESULTS
(INDICATORS)
B.2. Faculty Development                                    B.2.(a)   Selected   foreign  Mo s co w   Med i cal  B.2. (a) 65 faculty
Faculty who will be engaged in teaching family doctors and  countries. Study tours will visit  Academy. MMA will be  w h o   h a v e
nurses will be selected from MMA and associated Oblasts and  academic centers and clinics  responsible for identifying  participated   in
will be provided a variety of training opportunities designed to  that  exemplify   alternative  and screening candidates  foreign   study
upgrade their understanding of the theory and practice of family  modes of training and practice  for study tour participation  tours.
medicine, increase their knowledge of teaching methodologies,  in family medicine.        and training. MMA will
and strengthen their teaching skills.                                                     solicit candidates from its  B.2.(b) 35 faculty
B.2.(b)  Overseas.  Training  own   faculty,  Tver,  who have received
(a) Over a five year period, 65 faculty will participate in foreign  opportunities   will  be   at  Kaluga,  and   other  foreign training.
study tours, of up to two weeks each.                       academic centers that specialize  associated Oblasts.  The
in the educational preparation  Academic  Partner,  in  B.3. Library  of
(b) 35 faculty will be sent abroad for training, for periods up to  of  family practitioners and  consultation with MMA,  5,400 volumes and
90 days, to upgrade their understanding and skills.         educators,                    will  organize   and   100   periodicals,
coordinate  all  foreign  with  selected
B.3. Library of Teaching Materials                          B.3. Materials will be collected  study tours and training  translations.
from  international  sources.  opportunities.
Books, periodicals, videos and other teaching materials on family  Translation will be handled by
medicine will be collected from international sources, translated,  the CSU
and adapted to local needs.
C. OUALITY                 C. . Ouality Improvement                                     Moscow. 4 person months of  Mo s c o w   M e d i c a I  Examination  and
IMPROVEMENT AND                                                                         external, and 4 pm of national  Academy. The Academic  c e r t i f i c a t i o n
CERTIFICATION              A program will be established to encourage continuous quality  technical assistance will be  Partner will assist MMA   p r o c e s s  f o r
improvement in the training and the practice of family doctors  provided  over 3  years to  in identification, selection,  p r a c t it i o n e r s;
and nurses. The program will include: evaluation of professional  support this effort.    and   coordination   of  a cc r e d it a ti o n
proficiency through a system of accreditation and certification;                          technical  assistance   s y s t e m   f o r
educational program accreditation; and creation of a professional                         personnel.                academic centers;
association of family practitioners.                                                                                and  professional
association   of
f a - m   i I y 
practitioners.
D. CREATING A              D.l. Public Awareness                                        Moscow, Tver, Kaluga, and  MMA.   The Academic  Publications,                  >
SUPPORTIVE                                                                              nationally. 4.5 person months  Partner will assist MMA   brochures,  and       z
ENVIRONMENT                To create a political and social environment that encourages and  of external, and 6.5 pm  of  in  the  identification,  media publicity.  z
supports family centered health care by increasing public  national technical assistance  selection, and coordination
awareness and popularizing family medicine among the public and  will be provided over fours  of  required  technical
health care workers.                                        years.                        assistance personnel.



ANNEX 5.1: Project Design Summary
z
z
Narrative Sumnmnary                                   Key Performance Indicators                      Monitoring and Supervision           Critical Assumptions and Risks           X
CAS Objectives: 
(i) support human resource development and poverty                                                                                                                                                  _
alleviation, including...
(ii) facilitate health reform to improve quality and
efficiency of health care provision
Project Development Objectives
In Pilot Oblasts:                                      In Pilot Oblasts:
1. Achieve improvements in the quality and efficiency of   * No. of hospital beds in project facilities reduced
health care                                            * Referral rates to hospital reduced
2. Achieve improvements in reproductive health and     * Hospital admissions reduced
cardiovascular health                                  * Average length of hospital stay reduced
* Share of health spending on outpatient services increased                                    Nationally:
Nationally:                                            * Hospital beds per 10,000 population reduced                                                   2. MOH interest/support in pilot is
1. Improve the quality and accelerate introduction of  * Anemia in pregnancy reduced                                                                  maintained
Family Medicine practice nationwide                    * Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy reduced
2. Monitor and evaluate project activities to be able to  * Neonatal mortality rate reduced
make decisions about national adoption of specific     * Mean age of death from cardiovascular disease
reform measures                                        * Incidence of stroke
* Fatality rate of treated acute myocardial infarct
Nationally:
* No. of regional training centers established
Project Outputs
In Kaluga Oblast                                                                                                                                      In Kaluga & Tver Oblasts:
1. Health facilities operating under reformed functions  * No. of feldshers/GPs/
2. New provider payment, MIS and Quality Assurance     primary care group practices/CDTCs operating under                                              1. Budgets shares for outpatient services
mechanisms tested in six pilot sites, then implemented  reformed functions                                                                            are increased
oblast-wide.                                                                                                                                          2. Local public sector health expenditures
3. Improved clinical practices for antenatal care,                                                                                                    for health are maintained or increased.
perinatal care, family planning, with emphasis on                                                                                                     3. Providers respond as expected to new
prevention                                                                                                                                             incentives. Balance between gains and
4. Improved reproductive health                        * Contraceptive prevalence increased                                                           losses in efficiency resulting from new
behavior of the population                                                                                                                            incentive system is positive.
4. Oblast Health Authority and Oblast
Health Insurance Fund managers are able
to function collaboratively.
5. (In Kaluga) Political support for hospital
bed closings is mantained.
!' Baseline and targeted values are shown in Annex 5.



ANNEX 5.1: Project Design Summary
Narmtive Sunmary                                    Key Performance Indicators                    Monitoring and Supervision          Critical Assumptions and Risks 
In Tver Oblast:                                                                                                                                                                              O
1. Family Medicine Program in Tver Medical Academy    * No. of family doctor residency graduates
established
2. Family medicine and CDTCs operating under         * No. of family medicine clinics/CDTCs operating under
reformed functions                                   reformed functions
3. New provider payment, MIS and QA mechanisms
tested in five (14 for MIS) pilot sites, then implemented
oblast-wide.
4. Improved clinical practices for antenatal care,
perinatal care, family planning, with emphasis on
prevention. Rzhev Inter-rayon perinateal center
established.
5. Improved clinical practices in cardiovascular care,
with emphasis on prevention and improved emergency
care
6. Improved cardiovascular                           * Smoking rate among men reduced
and reproductive health behavior of the population   * Contraceptive prevalence increased
Nationally:
1. Family Medicine Programs established in Moscow    * Model of family practice developed
Medical Academy, Kaluga and six other regional training   * New curricula developed
centers                                              * No of faculty trained in family medicine
2. Project activities monitored; project outcomes    * No. of regional training centers established
evaluated and disseminated
3. MedSocEconlnform's capacity to monitor and
evaluate health reform projects increased
Project Components
1. Kaluga Oblast Subproiect                                                                                                                      In KaluRa and Tver Oblasts:
a) Delivery System Restructuring                                                                                                                 1. Local government support for the
b) Restructuring Provider Incentives                                                                                                             project is maintained.
c) MCH and Family Planning                                                                                                                       2. Local contribution to project is
available.
2. Tver Oblast Subproiect
a) Cardiovascular Health                                                                                                                         Project-wide
b) Family Medicine                                                                                                                               1. Implementation arrangements are
c) MCH and Family Planning                                                                                                                       effective.
d) Restructuring Provider Incentives
3. National Training Program in Family Medicine                                                                                                                                              >
X
z
4. Monitorinsq. Evaluation and DisseminatiLo-n 
Form No.___



ANNEX 5.2                                                                                                         Page 117
ANNEX 5.2: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Baseline            Target         Source of
1994               2002            Data
A. KALUGA OBLAST HEALTH REFORM
1. Delivery system Restructuring (for target rayons only
a.  No. of feldshers operating under reformed functions (1)                 125                97             KPMU
b.  No. of general practices operating under reformed functions (1)         0                  30             KPMU
c.  No. of group practices operating under reformed functions (1)           0                  23             KPMU
d.  No. of CDTCs operating under reformed functions (1)                     0                   9             KPMU
e.  No. of hospital beds in project facilities                             1600                1248           KPMU
2.  Restructuring Provider Incentives
a.  Hospital admissions rate (% of population)                             19.3                16.4            AHS
b.  Average length of hospital stay (days)                                 18.5                16.6            AHS
c.  Share of health spending on outpatient services (%)                    30.0               50.0             THIF
d.  Hospital beds per 10,000 population                                    125.5              106.7            AHS
3.  Restructuring MCH/FP Services
a.  Anemia in pregnancy (% of pregnant women)                              24.2                18.0            AHS
b.  Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (% of pregnant women)              14.0                10.5            AHS
c.  Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                        10.8                9.0             AHS
d.  Contraceptive Prevalence (% of women 1549)                             19.3                30.0            AHS
B. TVER OBLAST HEALTH REFORM
1.  Restructuring cardiovascular health services
a.  Mean age of death from cardiovascular disease (3)                        -             16% decline         AHS
b.  Incidence of stroke (3)                                                  -             15% decline         AHS
C.  Smoking rate - men (4)                                                 60.0                50.0           Surveys
d.  Fatality rate of treated acute myocardial infarct (5)                    -             20% decline         TES
2.  Family Medicine
a.  Number of family doctor residency graduates                             0                  50              TMA
b.  Number of family medicine offices opened                                0                  50             TPMU
c.  Number of CDTCs established                                             0                   6             TPMU
3.  Restructuring MCH/FP Services
a.  Anemia in pregnancy (% of pregnant women)                              33.0               20.0             AHS
b.  Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (% of pregnant women)              11.0                7.0             AHS
c.  Perinatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                       18.7                17.7            AHS
d.  Contraceptive Prevalence (% of women 1549)                             23.0                35.0            AHS
4.  Restructuring Provider Incentives
a.  Hospital admission rate (% of population)                              21.3                18.1  ,         AHS
b.  Average length of hospital stay (days)                                 17.2                15.5            AHS
c.  Share of health spending on outpatient services (%) (6)                  -                50.0             THIF
C. NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM IN FAMILY MEDICINE
a.  Model of family practice developed                                       0                  1              MMA
b.  New curricula developed                                                  0                  3              MMA
c.  No of faculty trained in family medicine                                 0                 35              MMA
d.  No. of training centers established                                      0                  4              MMA
List of Abbreviations                                        Notes
AHS      Annual Health Statistics                         1. The reformed functions of these various types of health facilities are described in
THIF     Territorial Health Insurance fund                   Annex I of the component description for delivery system restructuring in Kaluga
KPMU    Kaluga Project Management Unit                    2. Baseline figure to be obtained from Kaluga Regional Health Authority
TES      Tver Emergency Services                          3. Baseline figure to be obtained from Tver Regional Health Authority
TPMU    Tver Project Management Unit                      4. This targeted decrease assumes that smoking rates country-wide will not
TMA      Tver Medical Academy                                change appreciably.
MMA    Moscow Medical Academy                             5. For purposes of definiton, treatment would be considered to be commenced when
CDTC    Consultative, Diagnostic and Treatment Center        the ambulance arrives or the patient presents at the hospital or whichever occurs first.



Page 118                                                                       ANNEX 6.1
ANNEX 6.1: Project Supervision Plan
Dates                 Task                         Staffin                      Sws
4th Qtr. FY97         Pre-Launch Workshop         Task Manager                          2
(before effectiveness)     Implementation Specialist              2
Operations Assistant                  2
Public Health Specialist              1
Health System Planning Specialist     1
Health Financing Specialist           1
MCH Specialist                        1
Cardiology Specialist                 1
Family Medicine Specialist            1
FY1997                                                                                 12
Ist Qtr. FY98         1st Supervision Mission     Task Manager                          2
Implementation Specialist             3
Operations Assistant                  2
2nd Qtr. FY98         2nd Supervision Mission     Task Manager                          2
Implementation Specialist             2
Operations Assistant                  2
Health System Planning Specialist     2
Health Financing Specialist           2
MCH Specialist                        2
Faamily Medicine Specialist           2
4th Qtr. FY98         3rd Supervision Mission     Task Manager                          2
Implementation Specialist             2
Operations Assistant                  2
Year-round            Non-mission tasks           Task Manager                          4
Implementation Specialist             6
Operations Assistant                  4
Technical Specialists (TBD)           2
FY1998                                                                                 43



ANNEX 6.1                                                                         Page 119
ANNEX 6.1: Project Supervision Plan
Dates                  Task                        Staffing                     Sws
2nd Qtr. FY99          4th Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       2
(First Year Review)          Implementation Specialist           2
Operations Assistant               2
Public Health Specialist           2
Health System Planning Specialist  2
Health Financing Specialist        2
MCH Specialist                     2
Cardiology Specialist              2
Family Medicine Specialist         2
4th Qtr. FY99          5th Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       2
Implementation Specialist          2
Operations Assistant               2
Technical Specialists (TBD)        4
Year-round             Non-mission tasks             Task Manager                       2
Implementation Specialist          4
Operations Assistant,              4
Technical Specialists (TBD)        2
FY1999                                                                                 40
2nd Qtr. FY2000        6th Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       2
Implementation Specialist          2
Operations Assistant               2
Technical Specialists (TBD)        6
4th Qtr. FY2000        7th Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       2
Implementation Specialist          2
Operations Assistant               2
Technical Specialists (TBD)        4
Year-round             Non-mission tasks             Task Manager                        1
Implementation Specialist          4
Operations Assistant               2
Technical Specialists (TBD)        1
FY2000                                                                                 30



Page 120                                                                       ANNEX 6.1
ANNEX 6.1: Project Supervision Plan
Dates                 Task                           Staffing                   Sws
2nd Qtr. FY2001       8th Supervision Mission       Task Manager                         2
(Mid-Term Review)            Implementation Specialist             2
Operations Assistant                 2
Public Health Specialist             2
Health System Planning Specialist    2
Health Financing Specialist          2
MCH Specialist                       2
Cardiology Specialist                2
Family Medicine Specialist           2
4th Qtr. FY2001       9th Supervision Mission       Task Manager                         1
Implementation Specialist            2
Operations Assistant                 1
Year-round            Non-mission tasks             Task Manager                         1
Implementation Specialist            4
Operations Assistant                 2
Technical Specialists (TBD)          1
FY2001                                                                                  30
2nd Qtr. FY2002       10th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                         2
Implementation Specialist            2
Operations Assistant                 2
Technical Specialists (TBD)          4
4th Qtr. FY2002       11 th Supervision Mission     Task Manager                         1
Implementation Specialist            2
Operations Assistant                 1
Technical Specialists (TBD)          2
Year-round            Non-mission tasks             Task Manager                         1
Implementation Specialist            4
Operations Assistant                 2
Technical Specialists (TBD)          1
FY2002                                                                                  24



ANNEX 6.1                                                                         Page 121
ANNEX 6.1: Project Supervision Plan
Dates                  Task                          Staffinu                   Sws
2nd Qtr. FY2003         Last Supervision Mission    Task Manager                        2
prior to PCR                Implementation Specialist           2
Operations Assistant                2
Technical Specialists (TBD)         4
4th Qtr. FY2003         ICR Mission (preparation    Task Manager                        2
of PCR)                    Implementation Specialist            1
Operations Assistant                1
Technical Specialists (TBD)         2
Year-round              Non-mission tasks           Task Manager                         1
Implementation Specialist           4
Operations Assistant                2
Technical Specialists (TBD)         1
FY2003                                                                                 24
TOTAL                                                         203



Page 122                                                                     ANNEX 7.1
Annex 7.1: Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    "Health Reform in Kaluga Oblast". Ernst Lauridsen, June 1995;
2.    "Delivery System Restructuring Component. Kaluga Sub-project". Walther Verniers, June
1995;
3.    "Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Components. Kaluga and Tver Sub-projects".
Chantal Worzala, June 1995;
4.    "Medical Care Provider Payment and Quality Assurance Component. Kaluga Sub-project",
"Management Information System and Medical Care Provider Payment. Tver Sub-project".
George Schieber, July 1995;
5.    "Hospital Global Budgeting". Robert Dredge, New Cross Hospital, July 1996;
6.    "Health Reform in Tver Oblast". Robert Taylor;
7.    "Health Promotion and Cardiovascular Disease Component. Tver Sub-project". Dr.Robert
Hay, June 1995;
8.    "Family Centered Health Care". Robert Taylor, August 1995



MAP SECTION






MopDenUitdThe Wodd Bons     !RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
Sm rpyow 4&wnobim sfioel 0HEALTH REFORM  PILOT PROJECT
an &O bagalo"bf dofm bmotr   
Os57 ..4is,ti ,acceptAnd of                                                                           PROJECT OBLASTS                ECONOMtC REGION BOUNDARIES
0  SELECTED CITIES                OULAST,KRAI OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
I.                      .                          . 69NATIONAL CAPITAL           AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG
UNITED.                                                                                              RIVERS                         OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIES
:KINGDOM        -                                                                                                                 -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i .   t _ .                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~St N!
NORWAY
- ASDEN)AA,I. ' {--*   S W E D E N                                B /    2 a r e n t s                                          cSpee v
C-ERMAW -                           F I N L A N D r-                                  ;         K a r ra S e a    - -             , r
FINLAND    A                                               K      .  ,
$POLAND  'TICANj4
(4._.- \ BELARUS 1
: E   ,' UKRAINE i
",y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
KAZAKSTAN
ARMENIA,' N                                                                                                              1D
SYRIN ._  ISLAMIC REP .>  \ 9  1-.                            lo0  200 300 400 500MILES
OF IRAN   *0 LA/ Z8EISTN-                              200  400  600  800 KILOMETERS            \M  O   N   G                            L  I A
ARAB  REP.  .                                 / 






FMS-                                                                           N3D J lENINGRAD   I>-                     0                                          8
3 -                            ~~~~~~~~~~~36-                             38.
,~    <   , ,    fo  to 4,   -.   ,   t   .                         <,                   V      0      L     0      G      D     A
UKRA IN               E,pERATION                                                       L                                 -;--
~~ ,-j               //                                                                                       S
*PROJECT CITIES                32- iNvcx              
PROJECT OBLAST
o SELECTED CITIES _t ~%   eht' 
@   OBtNAST CAPITAL                                        V  G   0                         R 0   D
* NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET} fOK/\)
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                     T ,x/ ... \ X / \  rO Rybmnsk
- MAIN ROADS                                              g/\ X/,                                                                                       K      s
SECONDARY ROADS                              j65't\                                              >k/                                              \      /Y
-ssfRAILROADS ,g\ </ la
OBLAST BOUNDARIES                #     r         OTS!O                                                ihsal(/  
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY         ,                              @=                         ozo,~ ,                                                         \ 
P  s  K  0   V/r '$
,q;            X~~~ndreapol                                                                                  Koaks    M  W )<     +    O Msc rOMocw
;ToToropetz                                               g            /   <               y           f   XT
Volik,ye Loki~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ho                                                           8
PROJECT OBT      ''                                                                                                         i.kTPILOT PROJECT
-5     OLS CAPITL                                                                                              MosNcow                      TVER R                      5
RIVERS'o oy                                                                   To Vyozmoa                                               50             100 KILOMETEnS
$OBELARUS                SOsts                                                                                   ku of ay    y r y e m n 
<            ,J           5~~~~~~~            ~ 32 M  O  L en   N       S 3~4   K                                      o  cceptonce of sockh loondorins               o
I                                                                                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 






IBRD 27841
34                                    35:                                     36                                     37
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                     To Mowbayskc                      w
HEALTH REFORM                                                                                             ndMo   Moocow
PI LOT PROJ ECT                                   "; ,(s                                                                             To Moscow
25                              ~~To Vvyaz ma   2Onnk 
0             25            50             75 KILOMETERS   and Moscow
550                    |                                                 _sF'                                  Moloicroslave                                      55S-
To Vya,,'m.                                             ndroA                                    To A/vleei
5   M    O    L   E   N1   5    K                                                        !9,           \     /    ITarusa
o,                                                        oMosalsk                                                        <0 $   ond%rlo
pas-Demersk/
54t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itn
gv   w /  ? n o                         ///                        0<           C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \8 >-~~~~~~~To Tula
RosRolov\i
'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
3i X >; = < < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and  Tva                                                                              5'
-5A'                                                                          Su   i ic4 35e 3'                                             37
5 '> ,/    To Roslavl o W          0                        /     f F0                            .     -
*,   PROJECT CITIS                                                                                                   U
_f                                     oj     udinovo                                                           To Belevd8
'    Zhizdr   /,         
L T CAPITAL
and Brynsk F      /    /F 
- R Y                 A   N I          K                                         r-X'
_~~~~~~~-   r    --1
34'                                    35  '                                   36'                                      37,
RUSSiAN        -,FINLAND ).-    
*  PROJECT CITIES                                        eD  Xi->so
-    'PROJECT OBLAST                                  POLAND-,                                                ,.  
o    SELECTED CITIES                                        B ELARUS 5                                                         '
s OBLAST CAPITAL                                                             -
INENATIONAL  CAPITAL  (INSET)                                         ) Mo\ow
RIVERS            nKRAINE                                               , Ma     RUSSTA K FEDERATION
MAIN ROADS                                                   ;/-A
--SECONDARY ROADS                                       
RAILROADS                                                       , -_f>.
OBLAST BOUNDARIES tr   
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                                                    ,                      >   
This mop wsp-od-cd by the Map De iqn UniR of Th. World Bank. ~         o           
Th. boondar,ies, color, denoai-otio- a-d anyother info-mtion Ahwn-1,.                                K AZ A K5TAN
on this map do not imply on the port of The World Bonk Group, ny  TUR- N ilt
judgment on the legaltotas of any terriory, or any endorseme- t or
acceptooce of such bo-drn-orl.                                     A,CtI REP AZERBAIJAN       K,                                                m  GLIAl
MAY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:        15585   RU
Type:     SAPR



