Report No. PIC967
Project Name                   Russia-Health Reform Pilot Project (@) 
(HRPP)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Basic Health
Project ID                     RUPA8814
Borrower                       The Government of the Russian Federation
Implementing Agencies          Kaluga and Tver Oblasts, Moscow Sechenov
and Tver Medical Academies, Public Health
Institute "MedSocEconomInform" of the
Federal Ministry of Health
Date This PID Prepared         January 28, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared      March, 1993
Projected Appraisal Date       January, 1996
Projected Board Date           May, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Health Status.   The health status of the Russian people is
deteriorating: life expectancy, 63.8 years for men and 74.3 years for
women in 1986, has declined to 58.2 and 71.6 years, respectively, in
1994. The deterioration is generally thought to be linked to problems
of economic transition. In addition, long-standing structural problems
have limited the health system's ability to cope with the effects of the
economic downturn. In 1994 the leading causes of death were
cardiovascular disease (52 percent), trauma and poisoning (16 percent),
and cancer (13 percent).
2.   Sector issues.   Having successfully achieved the reductions in
infectious disease that result from vigorous public health programs and
universal access to basic care, Russia's health system failed to make
the transition to the cost-conscious orientation needed to manage non-
infectious disease. The system is excessively oriented toward
specialized and hospital-based care. Seventy percent of health sector
spending is for in-patient care, and, within this envelope, the
allocation system favors the most sophisticated and highly specialized
facilities. The average number of beds is 12.9 (1994) per 1,000
population in comparison to an OECD average of 8.4 (1991), and
approximately 70 to 80 percent of physicians practice as specialists.
Although reliable information is difficult to obtain, health care
spending in Russia is currently estimated at about $75 per capita. At
4 percent of GDP, spending on health is approximately at the level that
would be expected in a country at Russia's income level. However,
health spending is insufficient to sustain the comprehensive health
services which the system attempts to provide and is markedly lower than
in OECD countries which Russians look to as comparators for their own
system.



Project Objectives
3.   The proposed project is designed to achieve improvements in the
quality and efficiency of health care and in reproductive and
cardiovascular health outcomes in two pilot oblasts sufficient to make
decisions about national adoption of specific reform measures. It
focuses on three high-priority reform measures: (a) changing incentive
systems through the introduction of output-driven, cost-conscious
provider payment mechanisms; (b) reorienting health care by
strengthening outpatient care services, centered on a network of Family
Physicians, and correspondingly reducing inpatient care services; and
(c) improving care practices with an emphasis on promoting healthy
lifestyles and offering better - quality, cost-effective, and affordable
prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Project Description
4.   The project consists of two independent sub-projects, each
consisting of a package of reform measures to be undertaken in a
participating oblast; one component to strengthen national and regional
training programs in Family Medicine; and one component to monitor,
evaluate, disseminate and replicate project results. Although the
underlying principles of reform are the same, each oblast sub-project is
unique, having been shaped by local oblast priorities, institutional
capacities, and other local conditions.
Kaluga Oblast Health Reform. This sub-project has three components:
Delivery System Restructuring Component would change the
orientation of health care, aiming to shift as much as 30- of cases
currently managed in an in-patient setting to a comprehensive
ambulatory system of family physicians, out-patient Consultative,
Diagnostic and Treatment Centers and day surgery centers.
Restructuring Provider Incentives Component would establish new
performance-based methods of paying providers in support of the
delivery system restructuring. It would also develop and implement
modem information-based quality assurance systems. Restructuring
Maternal and Child Health Services Component would reorient
practices in maternal and child care towards lower-cost and/or more
effective approaches in antenatal care, perinatal care, and family
planning and reproductive health.
Tver Oblast Health Reform. This sub-project has four components:
Restructuring Cardiovascular Health Services Component would
reorient practices in the management of cardiovascular disease
towards promotion of healthy lifestyles and prevention of
cardiovascular disease. It would also support emergency care for
the treatment of acute cardiovascular events as well as the limited
diagnostic enhancements. Introducing Family Medicine Component
would help strengthen and expand programs to train/retrain
physicians in the practice of family medicine and support the
establishment of fifty family medicine offices and of six
Consultative, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers. Restructuring
Maternal and Child Health Services and Restructuring Provider
- 2 -



Incentives Components would be similar to those for Kaluga.
National Program in Family Medicine component would encourage the
transition from specialized medicine to general medicine through support
for national training programs in Family Medicine organized by the
Moscow Sechenov Medical Academy (MMA) and for regional training programs
in the two pilot oblasts.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination component would monitor and
evaluate project activities, output and outcomes; disseminate results of
the project and other similar projects throughout the country; and
prepare strategies for wider replication of project results.
Project Financing
5.   The proposed project is expected to cost about US$100.0 million.
the financing plan follows:
Beneficiaries        US$ 30.0 million
IBRD                US$ 70.0 million
US$100.0 million
Project Implementation
6.   The project would be implemented over a six-year period. Each
oblast would set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate
project activities and ensure their timely execution. Project teams
will be integrated into existing structures in the MMA and in
MedSocEconomInform which is implementing Monitoring, Evaluation and
Dissemination Component on behalf of the ministry of Health. To help
with the loan management, the project beneficiaries has jointly set up
a Central Support Unit within the Russian Health Care Foundation . The
CSU/Foundation will offer to the PMUs specialized services in
procurement, disbursement, accounting, translation, etc. This Unit will
also serve as a common liaison channel with the World Bank.
Project Sustainability
7.   The sustainability of health services in Russia is a central focus
of the Project. Output-driven incentive systems, outpatient oriented
care, and more efficient and cost-conscious clinical practices all aim
at defining a publicly-guaranteed package of services that is affordable
in the long run. However, while restructuring from inpatient to
outpatient care or from ineffective to more cost effective clinical
practices takes place, the health system will go through a transitional
period of increased recurrent cost requirements. This increase will be
covered through anticipated increases in local budget allocations in the
short run and further reductions in inpatient care and improved overall
efficiency in the long run.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.   While not the first project involving the health sector in Russia,
this is the first operation to attempt broad, systemic reform. The most
relevant lessons come from the countries in Central and Eastern Europe
- 3 -



which represent the unique precedent of countries attempting health
reform in the vortex of fundamental social and political transformation
with inherited health systems patterned after the Soviet model. With the
respect to implementation, Russia is experiencing problems typical of
first-time borrowers, exacerbated by complexities arising from its
federal structure. The 1996 Country Portfolio Performance Review
highlighted the need to (I) set up project management and procurement
arrangements early during preparation, (ii) clarify terms of onlending
sufficiently early to avoid delays in project effectiveness, (iii)
ensure ownership of the project by those agencies/individuals who would
be directly responsible for implementation; and (iii) ensure the quality
of accounting of project funds.
Poverty Category
9.   Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
10. The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impacts; accordingly, it is classified as a category "C" project.
Project Benefits and Risks
11. Project benefits will accrue at two levels. At the oblast level:
(i) better quality health services, greater consumer satisfaction, and
improvements in health outcomes both during and after the project; and
(ii) more stable and transparent mechanism for public financing of
services to improve equity of access; (iii) more cost-effective health
care systems; and (iv) a stronger, more efficient health institutions,
including individual health facilities, Oblast Health Authorities, and
Territorial Health Insurance Funds. For the country as a whole: (I) the
experience of two oblasts in implementing experimental reform measures
in an internally consistent, integrated fashion; (ii) stronger national
capacity to monitor, evaluate and disseminate similar experiments in
health reform; and (iii) a stronger national capacity to train Family
Physicians.
12. This is a high risk project. It is experimental in nature,
involving substantial changes in multiple dimensions of health care
delivery, and taking place in a highly uncertain social, political and
economic context. In addition the project's overall structure remains
complex, with essentially two separate (sub)projects, plus two federal-
level components. The beneficiary institutions' lack of experience with
standard project procurement, accounting, and management procedures will
add to the difficulties of implementation. First-year and mid-term
project reviews will focus on any problems resulting from project
complexity and/or limited implementation capacity and may recommend
project restructuring if necessary.
Contact Point:       Teresa J. Ho, Task Manager, EC3HR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
- 4-



(202) 458-5242 (tel.)
(202) 477-0954 (fax)
Central Support Unit of the Russia Health Care
Foundation
Director: Vladimir Shinkarenko
10 Voznesensky Per., Room 30-31
Moscow, Russian Federation
7095-229-0234 (tel.)
7051-290-3962 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 5 -



