             Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 29807-RU

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (SCL-41820 PPFB-P2950)

                ON A

                LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 66.0 MILLION

               TO THE

        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

               FOR A

   HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT




           October 19, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective October 18, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
                                  1.00 RUR = US$ 0.034
                                     US$ 1 = RR 29.1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALOS     Average Length of Stay
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CSRIIOHC Central Scientific and Research Institute for Informatization and Organization of
         Health Care
CTDC     Consultation, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers
CVD      Cardiovascular Diseases
ECA      Europe and Central Asia
GP       General Practitioner
HCF      Health Care Financing
HRIP     Health Reform Implementation Project
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MCH      Maternal and child health
MIS      Management Information Systems
MMA      Moscow Medical Academy
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PDO      Project Development Objective
RF       Russian Federation
STD      Sexually Transmitted Disease
TA       Technical Assistance
TMA      Tver Medical Academy
WHO      World Health Organization

                             Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director    Kristlania Georgieva
                            Sector Manager     Armin Fidler
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       John C. Langenbrunner

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                           HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P008814                                                  Project Name: HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT
Team Leader: John C. Langenbrunner                                   TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 19, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: HEALTH REFORM PILOT PROJECT                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-41820; PPFB-P2950
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (100%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Population and reproductive health
                            (P); Child health (P); Injuries and non-communicable diseases (P);
                            Access to urban services for the poor (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/1993                                     Effective: 01/07/1998                04/17/1998
     Appraisal: 12/22/1995                                         MTR: 04/30/2001                  04/30/2001
      Approval: 06/05/1997                                      Closing: 04/30/2004                 04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Armin Fidler                                   Robert B. Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:             John C. Langenbrunner                          Teresa J. Ho
ICR Primary Author:             Sarbani Chakraborty


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original project objectives were to achieve improvements in the quality and efficiency of health care
and in reproductive and cardiovascular health outcomes in two pilot oblasts sufficient to make decisions
about national adoption of specific reform measures. The project focused on the following high-priority
reforms : (i) changing incentive systems through the introduction of output-driven, cost-conscious provider
payment mechanisms, accompanied by information-based quality assurance schemes, (ii) reorienting health
care by strengthening primary health care services, centered on a network of family physicians, and
correspondingly reducing inpatient care services, and (iii) improving practices in two important areas of
care ­ maternal and child health and cardiovascular health ­ with an emphasis on promoting healthy
lifestyles and offering better quality, cost-effective, and affordable prevention, diagnosis and treatment.

In keeping with the decentralized structure of health administration, the project was organized around the
oblast as the principal operational unit for implementation. Most project activities were experimental in
nature, hence the project approach of testing them in two oblasts, Kaluga and Tver. Monitoring, evaluation
and dissemination of project outcomes constituted an important component of the project's development
objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project development objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$98.4 million equivalent which included duties and taxes
estimated at US$15.2 million. Of this 66.0 million consisted of loan funds. The project consisted of four
parts: two independent oblast sub-projects and two federal level components. Each part of the project
consisted of multiple components and sub-components (described below). Although the underlying
principles of reforms were the same, each oblast sub-project was unique, since it was shaped by local
oblast priorities, institutional capabilities and other local conditions. Although project management was not
included as a component of the project, 6.2 million was allocated for project management at the oblast and
federal level (3 percent of base costs).

Part I: Kaluga Oblast Health Reform (Total costs ­ 44.2 million or 50 percent of base costs)

This part of the project consisted of three components.

Component 1 (Delivery System Restructuring) (US$25.3 million) aimed at increasing the range, volume,
quality and accessibility of services, offered at outpatient facilities and correspondingly reducing the share
of inpatient services. Specifically, it aimed at expanding the role of primary care providers and shifting
most diagnostic procedures and about 30 percent of treatment procedures done in hospitals to outpatient
facilities. To do this the component was expected to undertake a major restructuring of the delivery system.
The introduction of family physicians as the principal provider of primary care constituted a central pillar
of the restructuring. The family physician was expected to replace the present cadre of "therapists" and
shift the emphasis away from medical specialization. The family physician (together with medical
assistants and nurses trained in family centered care) were expected to constitute the point of entry into the
health system and function as "gatekeepers" for the system. Except in emergency cases, it was expected
that all admissions to higher levels of the system would require referral from primary care providers.
Family physicians were expected to also increasingly receive patients who are referred back from higher
levels of the system for follow-up care. This component supported the establishment of family physicians in



                                                        - 2 -

solo and small group practices (with three or fewer doctors) located in ambulatories where therapists were
found as well as in polyclinics or district hospitals. In higher density areas (e.g. Kaluga city), it was
expected that family physicians would be organized into group practices consisting of four or more
physicians. The project supported the development of Consultation, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers
(CTDC) to which referrals would be made by family physicians on an outpatient basis. It was expected
that the CTDC would replace the polyclinic as the multi-disciplinary outpatient referral facility, providing
services in about 15 medical disciplines. The project supported building the diagnostic and treatment
capacity of CTDC and this was expected to be greater than that found in polyclinics. It was expected that
this would allow CTDC to carry out many more tests on an outpatient basis prior to or in lieu of
hospitalization. Overtime, the project anticipated that the CTDCs would gradually develop capacity to offer
day surgery and polyclinics/CTDC attached to rayon or municipal hospitals would become independent
functional units. They would, however, also provide diagnostic services to hospitals, reducing the need for
maintaining duplicative diagnostic capacity in hospitals. In turn, day surgery centers in CTDCs will have
access to surgical and related facilities in hospitals.

The restructured delivery system would consists of seven organizational and operational building blocks
which would constitute a model for the entire oblast: (i) feldsher stations in low-density areas; (ii) family
physician offices; (iii) group practices of primary care givers in high-density areas; (iv) CTDCs; (v)
general and "emergency" hospitals; (vi) specialist referral hospitals; (vii) oblast, municipal and rayon
management teams. As a result of these changes in the configuration of service delivery, the project
expected significant reductions in inpatient capacity. District hospitals, most of which were too small to
function efficiently, would be gradually closed or reorganized into nursing homes under the responsibility
of social services. In a few cases, parts of the district hospitals would be transformed into general or group
practices. In larger hospitals, changes in the scope and capacity of outpatient services would lead to
reductions in inpatient admissions as well as length of stay. Organizational improvements within hospitals
and upgrading of physical capital would also reduce length of stay.

The project anticipated such far-reaching reforms to take years to accomplish and it was recognized that
the reforms would to be continued after the completion of the project. Therefore, the project supported the
start of restructuring in a limited area: in Kaluga municipality and in the rayons of Maloyaroslavsky,
Ferzikovsky, Baryatinsky, Zhidrinsky and Medynsk ­ covering a population of 450,000 people, which
constituted over 40 percent of the oblast's population. The component was expected to be implemented in a
phased manner, starting with Kaluga Municipality in the first year of the project. Maloyaroslavsky and
Ferzikovsky rayons would follow in year two, and the remaining three rayons start reforms in year three.
The restructuring covered only levels of the system at and below the rayon/municipal level and did not
affect oblast specialty hospitals.

To support the above restructuring, the project financed the costs of: (i) minor civil works, equipment, and
medical vehicles for 30 family physicians offices, 23 primary group practice offices, 9 CTDCs and 1 day
surgery center; minor civil works and equipment for 2 district hospitals and 1 rayon hospital; and
equipment for the Kaluga Emergency Hospital; (ii) study tours and technical assistance (TA) to prepare
training programs for family physicians; group practices and other facility managers on the new structure
and on office/facilities management; and (iii) the incremental costs of the new system in the project areas.

Component 2 (Restructuring Provider Incentives) (US$6.0 million) aimed at supporting Kaluga oblast in
implementing fundamental changes in the existing systems of payment to hospitals and polyclinics and
replace them with systems that encouraged provision at the least costly, medically appropriate levels. The
payment reforms proposed were designed to promote primary care, eliminate unnecessary referrals to
specialists, reduce hospital admissions and reduce length of stay in hospitals. These reforms were designed


                                                       - 3 -

to reinforce Component 1 (Delivery System Restructuring). The project supported management information
systems to help Kaluga oblast effectively implement reformed provider payment systems, training for
primary care physicians in management and finance and reforms in quality assurance. Quality assurance
interventions included incorporating quality-based performance standards in the new payment systems, by
establishing quality coordination functions at the oblast level and in each hospital, through the introduction
of structure- and process- related quality standards (including modern medical treatment standards) for
hospitals, polyclinics, and physicians and through information dissemination. Kaluga also intended to
establish new accreditation standards for facilities and training of personnel.

Component 3 (US$11.2million) focused on improving maternal and child health services and family
planning. This component supported selected reforms in antenatal and perinatal care, family planning and
reproductive health. Under antenatal care, the project supported a review of protocols in antenatal care and
providing training in updated methods of antenatal care to about 100 providers (gynecologists, nurses,
general practitioners and midwives). Diagnostic capacity through the provision of medical equipment and
the provision of vitamin and iron folate supplementation was introduced. Under the perinatal care
sub-component, the project supported the provision of optimal care for women and infants during labor,
delivery and the post-partum period through support for Baby-Friendly hospitals. Ten maternity homes
were to be provided support (minor civil works, furniture). The third sub-component supported improving
family planning and reproductive health services. The fourth sub-component supported health promotion
and professional education. The project supported a Health Promotion Unit that would prepare
communication strategies, initially focused on MCH.

Part II: Tver Oblast Health Reform Base (Total costs ­ 38.0 million or 43 percent of base costs)

Part II of the project consisted of four components.

Component 1 (US$12.7 million) targeted the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. It supported the
following activities: (i) a health awareness survey that would provide a baseline and guide regarding
awareness, general knowledge and special concerns about cardiovascular health and a healthier lifestyle;
(ii) the expansion of the existing Oblast Health Information Center to serve several new functions. The
Center would assist in identifying priorities and designing five major campaigns targeted at the prevention
of CVD; (iii) training and support for primary care providers, (iv) conducting a health status inventory on
3000 individuals in five demonstration districts, including height, weight, blood pressure, lipid profile and
blood sugar; (v) a pilot effort at the carriage (railroad car) factory ­ the largest employer in the oblast ­
which would include examining workers for traditional risk factors and facilitation interventions such as
smoking cessation, hypertension treatment and diet counseling, (vi) a Diabetes Center would be created and
equipped, and the Center's functions would include outpatient treatment of high risk and severely affected
diabetics and the coordination and development of educational programs for patients and physicians at the
rayons on detection and early treatments; (vii) equipment for the early detection of cardiovascular risk
factors would be placed in hospitals and polyclinics throughout the oblast.

Component 2 (US$9.2million) focused on the implementation of family medicine. It facilitated the
introduction of family physicians as principal primary caregivers. This component consisted of three
sub-components: (i) development of family medicine education in the Tver Medical Academy, (ii)
Establishment of Family Medicine Clinics (up to 50 during the life of the project), (iii) conversion of six
polyclinics in CTDCs, with preference given to those associated with teaching clinics and rayon hospitals
in the demonstration sites.

Component 3 (US$11.2 million) focused on maternal and child health and family planning and included the


                                                       - 4 -

following sub-components: (i) Antenatal care which supported the development of a center to coordinate
health promotion and professional training activities in antenatal care. This center would be responsible for
the development of patient education materials and mass media campaigns, offer antenatal care for
expecting parents and train gynecologists in antenatal care and counseling; (ii) Baby-Friendly Hospitals:
Baby-friendly hospitals would be created in 20 rayons and five maternity homes in Tver city; (iii) Rzhev
Inter-rayon Perinatal Center: This Center would bring together obstetrical and neonatal functions in one
facility that would serve as the primary maternity homes and perinatal center for Rzhev City and a referral
center for nearly areas; (iv) family planning and reproductive health.

Component 4 (US$3.2 million) focused on restructuring provider incentives. This component selected five
pilot sites where USAID had already supported provider payment system reforms and supported the
development of management information systems (MIS). The development of a sound MIS system was
closely linked to the effective implementation of provider payment systems. The objective was to support
the development of a consolidated information system that merges financial, utilization, practice and
demographic information from the level of the individual patient and individual practitioner up to the oblast
level. This component also included support for selective implementation of quality assurance mechanisms
within the HIF.

Part III: National Training Program in Family Medicine (Total costs - US$2.8 million or 2 percent of
base costs)

Part III of the project aimed at supporting the development of training programs in family-centered care at
the Moscow Medical Academy (MMA), the country's leading training program in the field of Family
Medicine and in Kaluga and Tver. This part of the project consisted of four components.

Component I focused on updating models of practice. This component supported the further refinement of
the conceptual framework for models of practice for family physicians. It was expected that the revised
models of practice focusing on the population served by family practitioners, the services they will provide,
their referral relationships with other primary care physicians and with specialists, would serve as guides
for developing appropriate training programs and designing supportive work environments, identifying
equipment needs and helping shape national policy.

Component 2 focused on curriculum and faculty development. Based on the models of family medicine
practice, model programs for the training and re-training of family doctors and nurses at the undergraduate
and graduate levels would be developed.

Component 3 focused on quality improvement and certification. A program would be established to
encourage continuous improvement in the quality of training and in the care provided by family doctors and
nurses. The program would include: the evaluation of the professional efficiency of family doctors and
nurses through a system of accreditation and certification, accreditation of educational programs and the
creation of a professional association of family practitioners.

Component 4 focused on the creation of a supportive environment. Since the task of expanding
family-centered health care in Russia faces enormous challenges, not least of which is raising the status of
primary care physicians, this component supported the creation of an appropriate political and social
environment for the implementation of family medicine reforms through awareness raising campaigns.

It was expected that the system-wide implementation of family medicine, would essentially require changes
in the mindset of health care professionals and it was not considered to be possible without the support and


                                                     - 5 -

guidance of the Moscow Medical Academy.

Part IV: Monitoring and Evaluation and Dissemination (Total costs - US$1.4 million or 2 percent of
base costs)

The objective of Part IV of the project was to maximize the multiplier effect expected from the pilot
experience. The target audiences for monitoring and evaluation included: (i) the primary beneficiaries of the
project (the two oblasts and the Moscow Medical Academy), (ii) the MOH which had responsibility for the
overall coordination of health reform efforts in the country and (iii) other oblasts, organization and
institutions that would want to benefit from the experience of the project's pilot activities and would share
their own experiences.

Component 1 focused on monitoring and evaluation which included: (i) routine monitoring, (ii) monitoring
of key indicators, (iii) Year 1 evaluation, a mid-term evaluation and a final evaluation.

Component 2 focused on dissemination and replication . The objectives of dissemination and replication
were to (i) disseminate the results of pilot activities undertaken under the project to other territories in the
Federation including the dissemination of similar pilots taking place elsewhere in the country; (ii) on the
basis of the findings of the monitoring and evaluation activities, as well as reviews of other similar
activities, determining whether parts or whole of the interventions could be implemented elsewhere in the
country, (iii) design of appropriate proposals or assisting oblasts/territories to prepare proposals for
funding through federal, local or external funds including a possible follow-up World Bank-assisted
project.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were never revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory. In 1996, there was a Quality at Entry assessment for this
project. This assessment rated quality at entry as "marginal." The main reasons for this rating were: (i) the
absence of linkages between a clear health sector strategy and the project, (ii) complex design consisting of
multiple components at the federal and oblast levels, (iii) lack of ownership of the project at national level.
Given the fact that the project had already been in preparation for four years, the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) team recommended that project preparation proceed while attempting to reduce the complexity of
the project.

The project was highly relevant given the country context. In the mid to late 1990s, when this project was
designed, the Russian health system reflected the Soviet legacy of a fragmented health care delivery system
that was excessively focused on specialty and hospital-based services. Primary care was weak, especially in
urban areas, where many specialist polyclinics existed and the tendency of specialists was to refer patients
to the next level of care. Most diseases were treated on the basis of outdated clinical practices. For
example, pregnant women were expected to make many antenatal visits and undergo multiple tests. Labor
and delivery practices were outdated and babies were separated from their mothers at birth and the
hospitals did not have a supportive environment for breast-feeding. The number of abortions was unusually
high and an average Russian women could be expected to have between 5-6 abortions during her
reproductive years. The high rate was mostly related to the fact that abortion was the main method for
family planning and women did not have access to information on family planning and contraceptives.
Adult mortality from cardiovascular diseases (especially among men) was very high and by the mid-1990s,
male mortality rates had significantly worsened in Russia and the average Russian male was dying at the



                                                        - 6 -

age of 58 in 1996. Strengthening primary health care, maternal and child health (MCH) and preventive
health care were priorities in the health sector.

The project objectives were consistent with the 1997 Russia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which
highlighted the development of new financing mechanisms in the context of decentralization and the need to
demonstrate more cost-effective approach for health services delivery as priority areas in the health sector.
The CAS development objective for the health sector was: to facilitate health reforms to improve the
quality and efficiency of health care by stabilizing financing, improving incentives and rationalizing the
delivery system. It was expected that pilot projects would establish the basis for an expanded policy
dialogue on health care financing and efficiency. In 1997, the World Bank also developed a draft Health
Policy Note which formed the basis for discussions with counterparts on health policy issues and was used
as an input into the CAS. The project objectives were broadly consistent with the Government's Health
Policy Framework of 1997. The oblast sub-projects were developed in close collaboration with the oblasts
and there was strong ownership.

A US$2.5 million Japan grant for project preparation was in place and was used by the Bank for policy
dialogue and project preparation. The Bank team consisted of a good mix of technical specialists covering
the various areas of the project and although the task team leader changed during preparation, this was still
in the early stages of project preparation. The majority of technical experts continued throughout the entire
preparation phase. Given the difficult environment for changing medical practices in the country, the Bank
implemented a field trial with Russian experts on introducing revised protocols for maternal and child
health and family planning services (the Lubertsy study). This was funded through the PHRD and the
results were used to design the project component on MCH. The health care financing interventions
supported through the project were replicating models under the "New Economic Mechanisms" and were
already being tested in two oblasts (St. Petersburg and Kemerova).

Recognizing the demands that such a complex project would place on the Bank in terms of supervision, one
of the pilot oblasts (Smolensk) was dropped from the project. The project team recognized that health care
financing (HCF) reforms were key to achieving project objectives on health services delivery, and despite
low interest from the oblasts, emphasized that the project would only support other components if health
care financing reforms were included. This discussion and dialogue resulted in the inclusion of HCF
reform components for both oblasts. To continue to emphasize the importance of the HCF component, the
team included the development of a "provider payment implementation plan" in Kaluga oblast as a
condition of effectiveness and a draft report on the incentive payment fund as a condition of disbursement.
The Bank team put in considerable time and effort in building understanding and ownership of the reforms
at the oblast level, recognizing that ownership of the reforms supported through the project was key to
implementation success. This even resulted in the team recommending to management a change in the
appraisal date for the project.

Nonetheless, there were areas where project design was weak.

l Overall, this was an ambitious and complex project especially considering that this was the first health
    sector reform project in Russia. The complexity of the project was repeatedly recognized in almost all
    the project preparation documents, and besides reducing the number of oblasts, little was done to
    reduce project complexity.

l The project development objectives, which clearly stated that this was a pilot project with the objective
    of supporting national level decision-making were not matched by strong federal components.
    Ownership of the project at the federal level was weak. At the time the project was designed, Russia


                                                      - 7 -

    had chosen decentralization across all sectors and in the health sector, oblasts (regions) and
    municipalities (rayons) were given significant power and responsibility over health care financing and
    delivery. The role of the federal level MOH vis-à-vis the oblasts was not clear and overall capacity at
    the federal level for key policy functions was weak.

l The conceptual framework for health care service delivery restructuring was not clear and tried to
    introduce a few new concepts within the existing system (family medicine, diagnostic centers). The
    design of the components did not match the objective of the project of focusing on systematic
    interventions that would trigger system-wide changes.

l The project did not conduct a formal economic analysis of sub-projects. Given that this was a
    "demonstration" project an economic analysis would have shown that to obtain a positive cost-benefit
    or cost-effectiveness ratio, the investments supported through the project would have to be considerably
    scaled-up. Unless this scaling-up was done, the project could prove to be a very expensive investment
    with costs potentially outweighing benefits.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of project development objectives is rated satisfactory. The PDOs at the end of the
project are still relevant for the Russian health sector and the challenges currently facing the system. A
general problem in evaluating the PDOs of this project is that the indicators do not always match the PDOs
(see explanation under each PDO), are a mix of output, intermediate and final outcomes and are not
logically presented so as to allow evaluation of the relationship with the implementation of project
components.

Development Objective # 1: Changing incentives systems through the introduction of output-driven
cost conscious provider payment mechanisms, accompanied by information-based quality assurance
schemes. (DO rating: Unsatisfactory)

The indicators measuring this PDO are not fully synchronized with the stated objectives and none of the
indicators measure the implementation of provider payment systems. Rather, the emphasis is on measuring
outcomes that may be expected if the payments systems are successfully implemented. The implementation
of output-driven cost conscious provider payments systems was limited, especially at the hospital level, and
the implementation period was not long enough to generate incentives for change. In the absence of data on
the indicators from non-pilot rayons and oblasts, it is not possible to attribute changes in the indicators to
the project.

 Kaluga: (baseline: 1994, final: 2003)

l The hospital admission level (% of population) has increased from 19.3 to 22.9. This indicator does
    not meet the target specified in the project (a reduction to 16.4) The expected decline in admission rates
    was linked to the adoption of incentive-based provider payment systems that would discourage
    unnecessary hospitalizations. Since there was little progress on adopting these types of payment
    mechanisms, it is not surprising that the admission rate went up. There are also other factors for this
    increase in the admission rate -- mainly the fact that since the average length of stay (ALOS) went
    down (see next bullet point), beds were freed-up and hospitals could admit more patients. This is
    another indication that the payment mechanisms did not discourage unnecessary hospitalizations.
l The average length of stay (ALOS) has reduced from 18.5 days to 15.0 (19 percent decline). This is




                                                       - 8 -

    slightly better than the target of 16.6 days set by the project. This change is most likely attributable to a
    shift in day beds for particular conditions.
l Share of health expenditures for outpatient/polyclinic services had increased from 30 to 42 percent.
    This is below the target of 50 percent set under the project.
l The number of hospital beds per 10,000 population has reduced from 125.5 to 110. In the absence of
    data from non-pilot rayons and oblasts it is not possible to determine if this change is attributable to the
    project.

Tver:
l The admission level (% of the population) has decreased from 21.3 to 20.6. The target set by the
    project (18.1) was not met. Given that little has happened on provider payments systems, especially
    for hospitals, this result is not unusual.
l The average length of stay (days) has reduced from 17.2 to 15.4. As in the case of Kaluga, this is most
    likely attributable to the shift to day beds for particular conditions.
l The share of health expenditures for outpatient/polyclinic services has increased from 43.2 to 46.1


Project Development Objective # 2: Reorienting health care by strengthening primary care services,
centered on a network of Family Physicians, and correspondingly reducing inpatient care (DO
Rating: Satisfactory)

This PDO was exceedingly ambitious given the design of the family medicine component. To reorient
health care by strengthening primary care, a more comprehensive conceptual model for linking the
establishment of family medicine with the other levels of care as well as provider payment systems was
needed, especially in urban areas. This has not happened. However, in rural areas, it is clear that family
medicine has established a firm base and is contributing to better quality care and potentially better access
for the rural population. The reason for rating this PDO satisfactory is because, although it has not been
possible to measure reorientation of health care in the pilot oblasts, the early phases of establishing a
network of family physicians has occurred.

Kaluga: (baseline data: 1994, final data 2003)

l The number of feldshers performing the reformed functions has reduced from 125 in to 103. This does
    not meet the project target of 97 and is partly attributable to the fact that not enough rural family
    practices are established. The project supported the creation of rural health teams by linking one or two
    feldshers to family doctors instead of having feldshers reporting to district hospitals.
l The number of general practices performing the reformed health care functions has increased from 0 to
    30 in the pilot oblasts. This exceeds the project target of 20.
l The number of group practices performing the reformed functions has increased from 0 to 17 in the
    pilot oblasts. This does not meet the project target of 24 and is attributable to the number of problems.
    One of the main problem was that the equipment for the practices was not procured under the Project
    (due to loan cancellation) though the GPs were trained.
l The number of CTDCs performing reformed functions has increased from 0 to 9. This is as per the
    project target.
l The number of hospital beds in the facilities covered by the project have reduced from 1,600 to 1,205.
    This exceeds the project target of 1,248 beds. In the absence of data on changes in the number of
    hospital beds from non-pilot rayons in Kaluga and other oblasts, it is not possible to attribute the
    decline in hospital beds to the project.




                                                      - 9 -

Tver: (baseline data: 1994, final data 2003)

l The number of doctors trained in family medicine as a specialty has increased from 30 to 153. This is
    53 higher than the target set under the (project target 100).
l The number of family medicine offices performing the reformed functions has increased from 0 to 50.
    The target set in the project was 100. This is due to the fact that practically all remaining loan funds
    were cancelled in 2003 in accordance with the Government's decision and equipment could not be
    purchased.
l The number of CTDCs performing the reformed functions has increased from 0 to 8. This is two more
    than the target set in the project.

Project Development Objective # 3: Improving practices in two important areas of care ­ maternal
and child health and cardiovascular health ­ with an emphasis on promoting health lifestyles and
offering better-quality, cost-effective and affordable prevention, diagnosis and treating (DO rating:
satisfactory)

The indicators for measuring this PDO were not completely aligned with the objectives. For example,
although the PDO aimed at improving practices in two important areas of care, there is no information on
how providers have changed their behaviors (for example in the case management of pregnant women or
providing quality antenatal care) as a result of the project interventions. Information on changes in
knowledge and practices as well as changes in health outcomes in non-pilot rayons and oblast would have
allowed a more rigorous evaluations of the changes and potential contribution of the project. Nonetheless,
based on the information provided by technical specialists from the World Health Organization and the
Centers for Disease Control, the ICR rates this PDO satisfactory. A lot has been achieved under this PDO
as a result of this project, especially in terms of cardiovascular health.

Kaluga: (baseline data: 1994, final data 2003)

l Anemia during pregnancy (% of pregnant women) based on registration with a provider has increased
    from 24.2 to 41.3. This exceeds the project target of 30.4. This indicates better detection of anemia
    among pregnant women as compared with baseline.
l Anemia during pregnancy (% of pregnant women) as of delivery date has increased from 19.6 to 21.7.
    The target set by the project is 18.0 (i.e., anemia was expected to go down). In the absence of
    additional data, it is not possible to evaluate the reasons for the increase. It could be due to poor case
    management practices among providers, poor compliance among women or mis-classification.
l Pregnancy hypertension among women has increased from 14.0 to 17.0 (% of pregnant women). The
    target set by the project was 10.5 (reduction rather than increase). On the one hand, this could be an
    indication of providers using the training to better detect hypertension. However, it could also indicate
    that case management during pregnancy is not of adequate technical quality. .
l Neonatal mortality (per 1,000 live births) has reduced from 10.8 to 7.5. The number of stillbirths is
    also going down. This validates the decrease in neonatal mortality and indicates that the reduction is
    neonatal mortality is not due to the classification of stillbirths.
l The number of abortions (per 1,000 women in the ages of 15 ­ 45) has reduced from 63.3 to 39.6. This
    is as per the target defined in the project.




                                                       - 10 -

Tver (baseline 1994, final data 2003)

Cardiovascular Health

l The percentage of smokers men has reduced from 60 to 55 percent. This is as per the target specified
    in the project
l The number of registered and monitored essential hypertension cases has increased by 59 percent. This
    is a 59 percent increase while the target set by the project was a 10 percent increase.
l The number of newly detected acute myocardial infarctions (per year) has reduced from 2,729 to
    2,411. This is slightly higher than the target set by the project (3.9 as against the 3 percent set by the
    project.

Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning

l Anemia in pregnancy (% of pregnant women) has increased from 33.0 to 38.5. The project target was
    31.0. As in the case of Kaluga oblast, this could indicate improved case detection among pregnant
    women.
l Anemia in pregnancy as of delivery date (% of pregnant women) has increased from 18.4 to 24.07. The
    target set under the project was 20. Also, this could be due to inadequate case management of anemia
    during pregnancy or poor compliance among patients.
l Pregnancy hypertension (% of pregnant women) has increased marginally from 11.0 to 11.8. The target
    was 10.5.
l Perinatal mortality (per 1,000 live births) has been reduced from 18.7 to 12.9. The target set by the
    project was 17.7.
l The neonatal mortality (per 1,000 live births) has been reduced from 12.9 to 7.4. However, unlike in
    Kaluga, no data is available on the changes in the number of stillbirths. Without this data, it is not
    possible to validate this decline in neonatal mortality.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Part I: Kaluga Oblast Health Reform (Rating: Satisfactory)

Fifty-percent of loan proceeds allocated for this component were disbursed. The disbursements by category
as a percentage of original allocations are as follows: (i) 81% for works , (ii) 71% for medical equipment,
pharmaceuticals, training materials, supplies and vehicles, (iii) 12% for consulting and contractual services
and training, (iv) 14% for health provider payments and (v) 12% for health promotion activities.

Component 1: Delivery System Restructuring (Rating: satisfactory)

The objective of this component was to strengthen the base for primary care by training and equipping
family doctors. Strengthening primary care was expected to reduce the referral rate to specialist care since
family doctors would be able to manage a range of health problems. Three family medicine training courses
were given by the Moscow Medical Academy (MMA) and one course by the Smolensk State Medical
Academy. Ninety-nine physicians received the certificate of family practitioner. Although the project is
already finished a fifth training course is underway. The majority of the family doctors trained in this
program were originally therapists. Very few pediatricians have chosen to undergo family medicine
training. This is a general weakness in the adoption of family medicine in Russia and further efforts are
needed to bring other groups, such as pediatricians on board. At the completion of the fifth course, 120
physicians will be certified as family practitioners. Sixty-four trained family doctors are now functioning in
the reformed functions. Of these 64, 34 family practitioners (mostly in rural areas) are still waiting for



                                                      - 11 -

equipment and some minor civil works. The remaining 30 were equipped under the project. Eighty-three
nurses have completed the training course for family practitioner nurse. Visits to family doctors indicated
that the equipment provided through the project is used for the right purposes. There was no indication that
operations and maintenance (O&M) is an issue this point in time.

There is a difference in the scope of practice of urban and rural family practitioners in Kaluga oblast. In
rural areas, family doctors are providing a full range of services (including pediatric and gynecological
care). This is not a big surprise, since rural doctors have always functioned in this capacity, even under the
Soviet system. The project inputs are helping rural family doctors do a better job resulting in improved
provider and patient satisfaction. Rural family doctors are even willing to do minor surgeries provided they
have the appropriate financial incentives. However, in urban areas, family doctors are only responsible for
seeing adults and gynecological care for women is excluded from their scope of practice. This is also no
different from the function of therapists under the old system and is a reflection of the continuing
difficulties of implementing family practice in urban areas where the majority of narrow specialists are
located. Nonetheless, unless this issue is addressed, family medicine will never gain the needed status and
will be perceived as a system only for rural areas. This split will also make it difficult to obtain the needed
efficiency gains from optimization of the fragmented and duplicative health care services delivery structure
in urban areas. Finally, there is a need to further improve the quality of health care delivery since family
doctors are still providing unnecessary procedures such as infusions for patients. All the nine CTDCs in
Kaluga are operational.

The attitude of oblast health department authorities, professionals and population towards family medicine
has changed. This is, in large measure, attributable to the project. A good example is that for the first GP
training course, there were hardly any candidates. By the time of the last training course, demand for GP
training exceeded training capacity. Also, the oblast administration has already bought medical equipment
for 15 rural family doctors who were supposed to be equipped from the project and it is planning to
purchase equipment for the remaining 19 family doctors.

Component 2: Provider Payment Systems: (Rating: Unsatisfactory)

The main objective of this component was to support the health care delivery reforms by changing the way
providers are paid, and thereby generating the right incentives for a shift towards primary care. Overall
experience in OECD and ECA countries has shown that changing the provider payment systems is key to
successfully implementing family medicine reforms.

Under the project, two provider payment models were developed and implemented on a pilot basis
(capitation to policlinics with bonus payments for GPs based on performance and global budgets for
hospitals). Both were sophisticated models and were initially implemented in 3 polyclinics in Kaluga City
and in an Emergency Hospital and in one of the rayons (Malarioslavets). There were 4 GPs at #5 and 9
GPs at #8 and 2 GPs in the Malarioslavets rayon. Later these pilots were extended to polyclinics #2, #4,
and #6. The first phase started in 1998; the second group started in 2001. On the outpatient side, savings
were achieved in the amount of 17 million rubles in Year 1, 12 million in Year 2 and 4 million in Year 3,
but these savings were never reallocated to the outpatient sector. A big part of the savings came from one
of the polyclinics (Polyclinic # 8).   Starting in October 2003, Kaluga oblast entered a new experiment of
fund allocations for the Kaluga TMHIF from the Pension Fund, and therefore, the new hospital payment
mechanisms were disbanded and the region went back to the original payment model with 29 per case
payment categories (by specialty), with volume caps, due to the requests of the Pension Fund which
initiated a health insurance reform demonstration in 16 regions including Kaluga. Essentially, throughout
the project, a clear direction, vision and political commitment to health care financing reforms was weak


                                                       - 12 -

and this impacted the implementation of this component in Kaluga oblast.

The GP capitation model and bonus payments was implemented with approximately 70 GPs and GPs were
paid 1.4 times the salary of therapists. This was meant to provide stimuli for people to train as GPs. The
bonus system was introduced and consisted of approximately 35-45 indicators that would have to be used
to measure GP performance. External technical specialists found the system of tracking the large of
indicators administratively cumbersome and overly complicated. Physicians did not understand the system,
disallowing a behavioral response to achieve improved performance. Some indicators also reflected
outdated practice like fluoroscopy screening for TB. An alternative system was developed by
Maliorslavets rayon. A comparison of the two payment models was carried by the TMHIF although it was
not possible to hire external technical assistance to carry-out this comparison study. This was due to the
general reluctance of the oblast to hire foreign technical experts under the project. The TMHIF is aware of
the problems with the bonus system, although no changes have been made so far. With the support of a
local consultants funded through the project, a per capita allocation formula was developed. The TMHIF
implemented the per capita allocations for the first time in 2002. In the absence of data collection and
analysis of health expenditures at the oblast level, it is difficult to evaluate whether the per capital
allocations are being consistently implemented and the implications for overall resource allocation patterns
in the oblast. A consultant developed a proposal for MIS system development, but this was never
implemented since the Government decided to cancel the loan in 2003. Finally, under quality of care, over
90 new guidelines were developed, and several of these (hernia and bronchial asthma) specifically moved
care from inpatient to outpatient settings. This seems a successful initiative but no loan funds were utilized
specifically for the activity.

Component 3: Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (Rating: Satisfactory)

The objective of this component was to implement activities targeted at: (i) improving prenatal, delivery
and post-delivery care, (ii) prevention of abortion through family planning counseling and the distribution
of free contraceptives, (iii) prevention of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) among women, (iv) cancer
prevention and detection, (v) strengthening health promotion. The project mainly supported training,
provision of medical equipment and contraceptives and technical assistance for the development of health
promotion.

Almost all training activities envisaged under this component, except those related to cancer screening, are
complete. A wide variety of health personnel (ob/gyns, general physicians, midwives and nurses) have
been trained and there is good outreach of training activities to health personnel based in rural areas.
Medical equipment (neonatal resuscitation machines, cradles, warmers, delivery beds, fetal monitors,
partograms) have been purchased. The breast and cervical cancer screening devices were not purchased
although a plan was developed. This is due to cancellation of loan funds in 2003. A health promotion unit
has been established within the Department of Health. This Unit was actively involved in the development
of brochures, pamphlets and videos for the MCH component.

The project investments have occurred within a context of restructured maternity services at the rayon
levels. In the restructured system, women's consultations are in the same building as the hospital (part of
the polyclinic). The medical equipment is placed in the right place and is used appropriately. The maternity
departments supported under this project are certified as "Baby-Friendly" hospitals. These are the only
four baby-friendly health facilities in the entire oblast. The key next steps for this component are scaling-up
of the interventions as well as sustainability. The sustainability of the health promotion activities is key.
Overall health budgets in the oblast have been increasing each year, and given the political commitment to
providing quality health services for mothers and children, there is indication from the oblast that the


                                                      - 13 -

activities supported through the project will be continued. In addition, a new method of purchasing hospital
services is being introduced, which will hopefully resolve the problem of hospitals funding recurrent costs
related to the medical equipment.

Part II: Tver Oblast Health Reform Implementation (Rating: Satisfactory)

Forty-seven percent of the original loan amount was disbursed. Disbursements by category as a percentage
of original loan allocations are as follows: (i) 0% for works, (ii) 70% for medical and computer equipment,
pharmaceuticals, training materials, supplies and vehicles, (iii) 8% (CVD) and 2% (MCH and family
planning) for health promotion activities and (iv) 14 percent for consulting and contractual services and
training.

Component 1: Cardiovascular Diseases and Emergency Medicine (Rating: Satisfactory)

CVD:. An impressive array of activities have been implemented in a short time (approximately 3 years).
This includes the development and dissemination of health promotion materials based on a risk factor
survey undertaken during project preparation, establishment of a healthy schools program as well as the
establishment of a Health Promotion Unit under the Department of Health. Although this Unit was
established, it could not be equipped due to loan cancellation in 2003. The CVD health promotion activities
have been integrated at various levels such: undergraduate and post graduate programs for physicians
(including family doctors), a school-based health program as well as media campaigns using television and
radio targeting the general population. This technical approach to health promotion is consistent with
international practices. One of the weaknesses in the implementation of this component was the limited use
of international technical assistance, especially for the design of the media campaign. International TA was
requested by oblast staff but could not be completed due to loan cancellation. This somewhat limited
exposure of local specialists to international approaches in health life style campaigns and integration of
this information into the design of the local campaigns. However, it seems that there is interest in
continuing the activities supported under the project and the oblast health plan for 2004-2008 includes
activities related to CVD prevention. However, continued activities in CVD are at risk because they are
heavily dependent on oblast budgetary funding which has been shrinking for the health sector. In addition,
it is worrisome that the emergency training center has been temporarily closed recently due to a political
dispute indicating that there are substantial nonfinancial risks for sustainability. On the positive side, Tver
Medical Academy has established a School of Public Health based on the foundation work on CVD
supported by the project.

Management of Diabetes: Under the project, a Diabetic Center was established and equipped. It serves
approximately 9,000 people each year (this consists of approximately 40 percent of this population at risk
in the oblast) with important clinical examinations such as dilated eye exam to identify retinopathy, stress
testing for silent ischemic heart disease, glycohemoglobin for adequacy of glycemic control, and neurologic
assessment for diabetic neuropathy. This is an impressive achievement given the actual time frame of
implementation. The Center also provides laser therapy for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy and patient
education classes. The Center is currently in full operation with numerous patients in queue and procured
equipment in place and in active use. The Center's Director is enthusiastic and well versed in modern
approaches to diabetes diagnostics, treatment, and prevention and could serve as an excellent model for
other World Bank clients who are considering activities in secondary prevention in diabetes. The only
concern is with regards to the sustainability of the center.

Emergency Care: Emergency department equipment and ambulances with modern resuscitation equipment
were procured in the project. A training center was established and emergency staff were trained in


                                                      - 14 -

resuscitation. It was reported that as a result of the project, response times for emergency calls had
decreased although the data was not available for review. In 2002, a special study had indicated that
pre-hospital mortality from motor vehicle accidents had decreased by nearly 5 percent in the Oblast after
implementation of the project. However, a follow-up survey for end of project assessment was not done due
to loan cancellation.

Component 2: Implementation of Family Medicine (Rating: Satisfactory)

The Family Medicine Chair has been established and is functioning under the sponsorship of the Tver
Medical Academy. However, the training center is not operating at full capacity due to lacking one GP to
serve as part of the clinical base for the trainees. Salary support from Territorial Mandatory Health
Insurance Fund is not forthcoming due to budget shortfalls The Chair has also had problems replacing
medical supplies and consumables. A catchment area has been formally assigned to the training center GP
practice although the patient volume (30-35 patients per day) is borderline minimum to provide an adequate
and quality clinical experience for the 13 trainees. There was good evidence of cross-coordination and
integration of other sub-components (e.g. MCH and CVD) with family medicine training.

The original goal was to train and establish 50 GP offices in Tver oblast with priority given to rural areas.
Nearly 220 GPs have been trained and 50 GP offices have been refurbished (using local counterpart funds)
and equipped. During multiple missions, the newly retrained GPs seemed enthusiastic about the training
they received and the good working environment that resulted from the project investments. At mid-term
review, the oblast requested re-allocating loan funds to open an additional 50 GP practices which was
approved by the Bank. The additional GPs have been retrained and the clinics refurbished using local
funds. However, due to project suspension by the oblast administration, followed subsequently by loan
cancellation, the equipment could not be procured. While being appreciative of any opportunity for
additional training and skills building, providers appeared to be much less satisfied with the project
outcomes compared to those providers that received the equipment package. No information is available
about changes in patient satisfaction in the clinics. However, monitoring data indicate that there have been
significant increases (69%) in patient visits to GP offices (i.e. primarily in rural areas) indicating perhaps,
increased access and/or satisfaction. In addition, eight Clinical Diagnostic and Treatment Centers were
established and equipped to support family medicine.

Significant risks to sustainability remain. Local acceptance of family medicine is mixed. Requests for
re-trained GPs from municipalities and rayons have increased to the point of requiring a competition for
selection. Local counterpart funds have been forthcoming to refurbish GP clinics. However, there seems to
be continued resistance by pediatricians and gynecologists to having GPs working anywhere other than in
rural areas. In addition, the oblast administration unilaterally suspended project activities in 2002 for the
period of approximately 8 months in order to try to use project funds to procure medical equipment for
hospitals and polyclinics. There are verbal indications that the current oblast administration will try to
identify funds to procure the equipment for the remaining GP practices. However, it is more likely that
municipal funds will have to be used ­ which are even scarcer.

Component 3: Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (Rating: Satisfactory)

The objective of this component was to implement a comprehensive set of interventions related to women
and children's health, mainly, antenatal, delivery and post-delivery care as well as improving access to
family planning and management of sexually transmitted diseases (STD). Approximately 287 health
personnel have been trained under the project and included ob/gyn, general practitioners midwives and
feldshers, nurses. There has been good outreach to rural areas. The cascade method of training adopted for


                                                       - 15 -

this component was very effective in scaling-up the training efforts in a short period of time. In addition to
training, the project also supported the provision of medical equipment, especially for the management of
deliveries and neonates. Health education materials have been developed.

Overall, the impact of training and provision of medical equipment is positive and health personnel
understand the concepts of appropriate and cost-effective management of MCH and are beginning to
implement better case management which are consistent with WHO recommendations. Despite these initial
steps, considerable further efforts will have to be made to sustain and build upon these quality of care
investments. In addition, unlike Kaluga oblast, there has been no restructuring of maternity services and
the overall delivery mechanisms are inefficient and fragmented. There is also a need to continue the
training and health promotion efforts as well as scale-up efforts. Currently, all equipment provided under
the project is placed in the right place and used appropriately and there do not seem to be any immediate
concerns regarding O&M.

Component 4: Provider Payment Systems (Rating: Unsatisfactory)

There has been limited implementation of project activities. The majority of activities under this
component, i.e., the development of provider payment models, mainly how to pay the GPs was already
initiated during project design and was largely supported by USAID. Project activities were meant to
support the implementation of this model through strengthened management information systems and well
as support for further development of quality assurance mechanisms. In contrast to Kaluga, Tver is only
using ten performance indicators to monitor GP performance and link to the bonus payments. There are
concerns regarding the validity, reliability as well as administrative burden associated with some of the
indicators. The TMHIF is aware of some of these limitations and is looking into making changes. The
positive aspect is that there is good coordination between TMHIF and the Department of Health. For
quality assurance, it is important that this link is maintained since the Department of Health is formally
responsible for quality assurance functions such as the licensing and accreditation of GPs. As in the case
of Kaluga, the TMHIF has implemented the GP payment system whereby GPs are paid 1.4 times more
than therapists. The initial assessment by the HIF is that GP visits costs approximately 18 ­ 20 percent
less than a therapist visit. This information is often used by HIF and is an indication that they recognize the
economic value of promoting family medicine. However, an overall conceptual model of how health care
financing issues, especially provider payment systems, link to the effective implementation of family
medicine and delivery services delivery optimization is lacking. Such a comprehensive framework for
payment needs is needed to scale-up and sustain GP practices in Tver.

Federal Components: Family Medicine, monitoring and evaluation and project management

These sub-components of the project utilized 53 percent of the originally allocated loan amount. The
disbursements by category as a percentage of original allocated amounts under the loan are as follows: (i)
22% foe medical, computer and office equipment, (ii) 28 percent for consulting services and training and
(iii) 85% for federal PCU operating costs.

Part III: Family Medicine ­ Moscow Medical Academy (Rating: Satisfactory)

The low disbursements on this component are partly related to the resistance of the MMA to use the
substantial foreign technical assistance included under the project. In addition, limited international TA
was procured but the contractors did not fully anticipate the needs of the client. Additional TA was
planned in the form of study tours for family medicine trainers but could not be completed due to loan
cancellation. Under the project, the MMA has contributed to the development of Family Medicine in Russia


                                                      - 16 -

including: development of a legal and regulatory framework; development of curricula and standards for
physician and nurse re-training and residency; development of train-the-trainers curricula and standards;
establishment of a family medicine training center at MMA; technical assistance for the establishment of
the Family Medicine Chair in Tver and for GP training center in Kaluga. All technical deliverables have
been fulfilled.

Future challenges for MMA in implementation of Family Medicine in Russia will include: management of
change at Federal, oblast, municipal and community levels for the acceptance and successful
implementation; continuing assessment of training needs in family medicine followed by evolution of
curricula and methods to better meet the needs of family doctors especially for enhancement of clinical
skills; development of standards and guidelines for quality of family medicine training (e.g. minimum
patient volumes, varied profiles of patient population, achievement of modern adult learning methods and
objectives, etc) that can be incorporated in the future into criteria and processes for accreditation of family
medicine training programs; and, integration of family medicine practice into mainstream provider payment
mechanisms that will promote family medicine in a gatekeeper role.

Monitoring and Evaluation (Rating: Unsatisfactory)

A regular monitoring database was developed under the project and time series data on key project
indicators is available. This database is also capable of providing disaggregated information (regions) on
health outcomes. Under the original design of this part of the project, three evaluation report at inception,
mid-term and final reports were planned. All three reports were produced as expected. The quality of the
reports was affected by the absence of a systematic framework, including the objectives of monitoring and
evaluation and how this information would be used to disseminate the lessons learned from the
implementation of pilots. The oblast PCUs did include one person for monitoring and evaluation and
training was provided by the federal institute responsible for M&E. Nonetheless, continuous technical
support was missing and the oblast-level coordinators worked independently. The implementation of this
component was negatively affected by the various institutional and organizational changes throughout the
project. The project design had envisaged a partnership arrangement with an international group in order to
build capacity in monitoring and evaluation. A technical assistance contract with a Dutch firm was initiated
and then stopped when the "MedSocEconomInform" Institute was abolished. Just as implementation of this
component was accelerating, institutional and organizational changes within the Central Science and
Research Institute on Informatization and Organization of Health Care that led to the decision (much later
in the project) to move this responsibility to the MOH caused further delays and disrupted implementation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has made a moderate contribution to improving the country's ability to make effective use of its
human and financial resources. It has trained a small percentage of physicians in each of the pilot oblasts in
family medicine and provided appropriate medical equipment to put this training into practice. In the areas
of health promotion, the project has made an important contribution to institutional development by
supporting health promotion units in each of the oblasts. Additionally, the PCU staff in each of the pilot
oblasts were staff of the oblast health department and through this group, the project has contributed to
strengthening the capacity of Kaluga and Tver oblast health departments in key areas such as primary



                                                     - 17 -

health care based on a model of family medicine, health promotion, and the management of MCH and
CVD.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The 1998 Russian economic crisis had a major impact on the implementation of the project. The conditions
of disbursement had just been met (July 1998) when the economic crisis occurred. In both oblasts, MOF
had to suspend disbursements which meant implementation was stopped. Tver oblast was not able to make
its semi-annual interest payment to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) which was due in August 1998 and the
MOF had to suspend disbursements on the Tver sub-project (in October 1998). Kaluga oblast did make its
first semi-annual interest payment but not the second one. In addition, the oblasts also faced great difficulty
in meeting co-financing requirements. It was only in 1999-2000 that the project again picked-up full speed
implementation. However, a few years after the 1998 crisis, the economic situation in Russia improved and
there was less need to borrow funds for implementing the activities envisaged under the project. In fact,
although quantitative estimates are not available, many project activities were financed by the oblast,
outside the official co-financing requirements of the project.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the first two years of the project, there were various delays in project implementation caused by
factors within the control of the Government. For example, early in the project implementation process
(1998), there were MOF delays with review and approvals of all project documents required for project
effectiveness. The MOF took six months to review and approve the annual budget of the Central Support
Unit. In August 2003, the Government decided to cancel the remaining loan funds.

In 2001, the Governor of Tver stopped all activities related to the project as was announced in his letter to
the Bank. The suspension resulted in discontinuity of project implementation, disruption of services to the
project beneficiaries, and change in the local Project Management Unit Director and had considerable
impact on the implementation of project activities in Tver.

The reluctance of the Borrower to use international technical assistance for the project. Given the emphasis
of the project on health sector reforms, and the fact that the country was planning to adopt approaches that
have been tried and tested in other countries, the project included foreign technical assistance. The
Borrower was extremely reluctant to use foreign TA, and a large percentage of undisbursed funds on the
project, prior to cancellation in August 2003 were in the TA component.

The overall environment and political support for health care reforms especially health care financing
reforms was difficult throughout the life of the project, and there was no continuous leadership for the
reforms either at the oblast or federal levels. The process of health reform policy formulation and
implementation in the Russian Federation has been fragmented and weak for many years and this was
exacerbated by the lack of a clear role of the federal Ministry of Health vis-à-vis the oblasts. Overall
commitment and ownership of the reforms has varied quite a bit throughout the time of the project.

Repeated institutional and organizational changes that affected the implementation of the monitoring and
evaluation component. The decision of the Government to abolish "MedSocEconomInform" -- the group
responsible for monitoring and evaluation at a critical juncture in the implementation of the monitoring and
evaluation component. Just as the implementation of this component was accelerating, institutional and
organizational changes with the Central Science Research Institute on Informatization and Organization of



                                                     - 18 -

health care were implemented. Later the responsibility for monitoring and evaluation was moved to the
MOH.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation agency could have played a more prominent role in revising the monitoring and
evaluation framework to meet the needs of the project as well as to more clearly justify the impact of the
project on the health sector.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original loan amount was US$66.0 million. In 2003, the Government cancelled the remaining portion
of the loan (US$29.3 million). According to the legal agreement of the project, the project coordination
unit was required to track disbursements on loan proceeds. There were no formal reporting requirements
for co-financing. This makes it difficult to get a full picture of disbursements as against base costs for each
of the components. Also, during project design, costs were probably overestimated. For example, the
publications (for health promotion materials) were produced much cheaper than originally envisaged and
the project was able to obtain cheap air time on radio and TV (free or at very low costs) for dissemination
of health promotion messages. In addition, once the economic situation in the country improved, oblasts
preferred to use their own budget financing for project activities rather than drawing upon loan funds. This
contributed to the low disbursements on certain components of the project (for example, health promotion)
but is also an indication of ownership and interest in health promotion activities.

There were no cost overruns in the project. Co-financing by oblasts was a problem during the early years of
the project (1998-99) during the Russian economic crisis and this affected the pace and scale of
implementation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The benefits generated under the project are likely to be sustained. Overall, in both oblasts, attitude
towards family medicine is beginning to change among key people. In Kaluga oblast, where the overall
economic prospects for the oblast look good, and public spending on health has been increasing in the last
few years, the project benefits are likely to be sustained. The oblast administration had already bought
medical equipment for GPs and is planning to buy for some other GPs. These GPs were supposed to be
provided medical equipment from the project but the loan was stopped in 2003. In Tver oblast, the overall
political environment is slightly uncertain right now and continuation of project benefits is dependent on the
new administration. At the federal level, there seems commitment to continue to strengthen family
medicine. However, the successful implementation of family medicine throughout the Russian Federation
is contingent on several different push and pull factors including the pressure generated through reforms in
health care financing as well as the overall policy commitment of the Government on optimizing the
inefficient health services delivery network. On both these fronts, further developments are necessary to
generate a sufficiently strong health policy environment to support structural reforms.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Health reforms are continuing in Russia, including with the support of the Bank. The IBRD financed
Health Reform Implementation Project (HRIP) was approved last year and will support the implementation
of a comprehensive optimization plan for another two oblasts of Russia. This project also contains a strong
federal-government support section. This project incorporates the lessons learned from the Health Reform
Pilot Project, although it is not continuing to work in the same two oblasts. There is a need for ongoing
World Bank policy dialogue on the key areas of reform supported under the HRPP and now supported
under the HRIP.



                                                      - 19 -

One of the main concerns with transition arrangements, especially in the pilot oblasts, is the operations and
maintenance of medical equipment and other hardware purchased under the project. The total amount spent
on hardware in the project is US$28.4 million. If operations and maintenance costs are assumed to be 3
percent, this amounts to US$852,995 per year (approximately 23 million rubles at current dollar to ruble
exchange rates). In the context of the adoption of revised provider payment systems for hospitals in Kaluga,
it may be possible to cover operations and maintenance under the new tariff system and make hospital
managers responsible for this. However, under line item budgeting where health facilities do not have
discretion to allocate budgets as needed, O&M could be compromised. The oblast Health Department needs
to develop a O&M plan for all facilities that have received equipment and make sure funds are provided to
facilities and there is regular supervision. Finally, the federal level (e.g. the Central Science and Research
Institute on Informatization and Organization of Health Care ), in collaboration with oblast health
departments, should continue monitoring of the reforms supported under the project. The indicators
developed at project mid-term are still relevant and could be used by the Institute for regular monitoring.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at lending is rated marginally satisfactory. The project was in preparation for almost
five years. This was not an easy project to prepare in Russia where the Bank and Borrower were for the
first time jointly preparing a project on health sector reform. The overall environment for health reforms
was difficult although there were pockets of innovation and support at the oblast level. Given the size and
scope of the problem and the fact that Russia is a federal state, the approach of the Bank in supporting
oblasts was correct. The Bank was also right in identifying successful implementation of health reform
pilots as key to furthering the implementation of these reforms in other oblasts. The task team identified the
project as high risk and identified risk mitigation measures, including, project re-structuring, if needed.
However, one of the main weaknesses of the Bank's approach was the lack of attention to balancing oblast
level implementation of reforms within an overall framework for federal support and initiative. A
framework for federal actions was critical to meet a key element of the development objective of the
project, i.e., using the results of the pilots for national level decision making. The project design was also
overly complex and the PDOs and monitoring and evaluation framework were very weak.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated marginally satisfactory. The preparation team had identified the project to be
risky and had mentioned that it may need to be restructured during implementation. Strong supervision was
identified as a key risk mitigation measure for the project. The Bank accurately reported the various
external and internal problem affecting project implementation. At project mid-term (April 2001), there
already had been substantial delays in start-up due to a range of external (Russian financial crisis, MOF
lack of cooperation, co-financing) and internal (project management capacity) problems. In June and
December 1999, Bank review of project implementation status indicated serious concerns with
implementation of all activities as originally planned under the project as well as the achievement of project
development objectives. In the 2000 PSRs the Bank notes that restructuring may be needed but also notes
that the oblasts continue to be optimistic regarding their ability to meet implementation targets even though
due to the delays the time frame for implementation was already reduced by 2 years. Political commitment
to the health reforms was also weak at various times during the project. Also, lessons were beginning to
emerge from other ECA countries on the implementation of health care financing and delivery reforms, and
these lessons provided an opportunity to re-visit the project development objectives and the components.
The task team should have considered restructuring the project by focusing on those components that were
highly relevant, were being successfully implemented and had a limited health reform elements (e.g, MCH,


                                                        - 20 -

CVD, health promotion). However, the main attention of the task team focused on implementation of the
components and providing guidance and advice to counterparts on how best the components could be
implemented given the shortened time frame for the project. This diverted the attention of the task team on
asking more strategic questions on the project.

Some of the key factors affecting the quality of supervision on this project include: (i) inadequate resources
for supervision given the size, scope and complexity of the project. For example, due to a budget crisis,
funds for the mid-term review were drastically reduced and the mid-term review was carried out by a very
small Bank team supported by consultants from WHO. This put pressure on task teams to perform
multiple tasks and may have also affected the ability of the task team to accurately evaluate the overall
health policy environment, implications for the achievement of the PDOs as well as to undertake project
restructuring, (ii) there was limited involvement of management in the early years of the project and the
first time a manager commented on project implementation was in the June 2001 Project Status Report.
This was almost four years after the project had been approved by Board. Given the complexity of the
country context, the task team needed mentoring and the support of managers, both at the sectoral and
country unit levels.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Marginally satisfactory. Taking into account the factors already discussed under lending and supervision,
overall Bank performance is marginally satisfactory. The project was large and complex, the project
design had various weaknesses. Supervision adequately noted the problems with implementation and
provided good problem-solving on project management issues. However, supervision did not adequately
tackle the deeper structural issues with the project, some of which were linked to design and others due to a
change in environment for the reforms.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance at lending is rated marginally satisfactory. The Kaluga and Tver sub-projects
were developed by oblasts in close partnership and collaboration with Bank technical experts. There was
some ownership of these projects at the oblast level. However, this was not equally matched by federal level
ownership and capacity. In general, this is a reflection of the framework for decentralization in Russia
where the power and authority of central agencies was considerably depleted in the context of
decentralization.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall government implementation performance is rated highly unsatisfactory. Government commitment
to the project was weak as evidenced by the sudden and unilateral decision on the part of the Government to
cancel the loan. At times oblast level commitment was also weak as shown by the decision of Tver oblast
to stop all project activities. The Government's reluctance to use loan funds for foreign technical assistance
and an emphasis on using funds for the purchase of hardware, especially medical equipment, is another
sign of the lack of commitment to health reforms.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation agency performance is rated satisfactory. In the first two years of the project, there were
concerns about implementation agency performance, especially at the oblast level. This was to be expected
given this was the first time that both oblasts were implementing a World Bank project and the project was
very complex. Nonetheless, given that project implementation was significantly delayed, largely due to
external events, and the time frame for implementation was substantially reduced, implementation agency
performance was good and the results under the project are largely attributable to the hard work of the



                                                      - 21 -

implementation agency.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the assessment provider earlier, overall Borrower performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Strengthening Family Medicine in Urban Areas is Difficult and Requires a Comprehensive Approach and
Strong Leadership: Building a strong base for family medicine in urban and rural areas is important for
addressing many of the challenges facing the Russian health sector. One of the lessons learned from this
project is that it is easier to strengthen family medicine in rural as compared with urban areas. In rural
areas, the project interventions were successful in introducing family medicine in a relatively short period
of time and there is some evidence of improved patient satisfaction, efficiency gains (reduced number of
referrals) and potentially increased access to care. Since, during Soviet times, rural doctors typically
provided primary care to the entire family, there is little health reform element to these project interventions
in rural areas. In urban areas, the impact of project interventions was more limited and family doctors are
not, as yet, providing comprehensive primary care to children, women and adults. Changing the orientation
of urban primary care physicians towards family medicine is a difficult task and requires a comprehensive
approach that should include, in addition to retraining and the provision of medical equipment, strong
support of the medical community, an appropriate legal framework and health care financing mechanisms
that generate the right incentives. The project supported many of these interventions, but in a fragmented
manner and the health care financing mechanisms did not change significantly.

Strong and Continuous Leadership is Critical for the Success of Health Reform Projects: One of the
lessons learned from the implementation of health reforms in ECA and other parts of the world is that
strong and continuous leadership is critical for the success of health reforms. The policy environment for
health reforms both at the oblast and federal levels throughout the life of the project in Russia was volatile.
At various times, this contributed to the slow-down in the implementation of the project and was also a
factor in the types of investments that oblast authorities were willing and not willing to borrow funds for.
For example, there was interest in using loan funds for buying medical equipment but reluctance in using
loan funds for less visible investments such as technical assistance.

Quality of Care Improvements Require a Multi-Pronged Approach: Improving the quality of care can reap
important benefits in terms of improved patient satisfaction as well as cost-containment. Therefore, the
project was correct in focusing on quality of care improvements. Again, some progress has been made, but
the linkages to ensure continuous quality improvement are missing. In order for this to happen, the system
of accreditation and licensing will have to be improved, providers have to build their capacity in quality
assurance, health care financing arrangements have to generate incentives for providers and provider
groups and organizations (medical associations) have to be involved. None of these other aspects of quality
improvement were implemented in the project. This reduces the prospects of sustainability of the
investments supported through the project.

A Project Focusing on Pilots needs to have a Strong Federal Component and Good Monitoring and
Evaluation: Although the project aimed at implementing pilots that could then be used for replication in
other oblasts, the project design did not match these intentions. To achieve the objective of learning and
replication from the pilots, the relationship between oblast and federal levels needed to be clear and there
needed to be joint ownership of the reform agenda. This was not the case under the project. In pilot
projects, the monitoring and evaluation framework is key to understanding the process and outcomes of
implementing health reforms and whether the reforms should be scaled up and under what conditions. The



                                                      - 22 -

monitoring and evaluation framework in the project did not support robust evaluation or learning from the
reforms.

Preventive Health Care Interventions can be Successfully Implemented in a Relatively Short Period of
Time: One of the important contributions of the project is in the area of health promotion. The project has
demonstrated that in a relatively short period of time, important steps can be taken in improving prevention
and early diagnosis and treatment of key conditions responsible for a large portion of the burden of disease
in the country. The use of a combination of media interventions (brochures, posters, radio and TV spots)
and targeting a wide range of health professionals contributed to the success of the health promotion
interventions.

Bank supervision of health reform projects has to be clearly linked to ongoing policy dialogue in the
country: The Bank is increasingly highlighting the importance of proactive, continuous and flexible
supervision and linking project supervision to ongoing policy dialogue of the Bank. This is very important
for complex health reform projects, especially in countries where the overall health policy-making is
fragmented (as is the case in Russia) and there are frequent changes in political leadership at the federal
and oblast level. In this context, the health policy environment could rapidly change. The long duration of
project preparation, delays in implementation also meant that supervision has to be specially cognizant of
changes in the overall health policy environment. The Bank needed to work with the Borrower to re-confirm
commitment to the original development objectives and components of the project.

Participation of Bank Technical Experts: One of the lessons learned from this project that in a context
where IBRD countries are becoming increasing hesitant to borrow for international TA, the involvement of
senior Bank and WHO technical experts greatly enhances the value of World Bank assistance for the
client. Under this project, very little was disbursed for foreign TA and at times this affected the pace and
scale of implementation. Quality could also have been affected had it not been for staff from the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention seconded to the World Bank and WHO experts who provided
continuous technical support during the implementation of the MCH, CVD, and Family Medicine
components. This fact needs to be formally recognized by the Bank and has implications for ensuring that
adequate supervision resources are committed for projects.

Project Development Objectives must be Realistically Selected and Match the Scope and Size of the
Project: Project development objectives must be realistically selected to match the scope and size of the
project components. Excessively ambitious PDOs make it difficult to evaluate results at the end of the
project and may even contribute to an "unsatisfactory" rating on PDOs even though much was achieved
under the project.




                                                      - 23 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Moscow Office
Of the World Bank
                                                                                          July 30, 2004

                                           #01/1178-04-31
                                     Project Completion Report


Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Russian Federation submits for your review the report
"On Completion of the Implementation of the Health Reform Pilot Project".


                                               Regards,

                                           Deputy Minister
                                           V.I. Starodubov




                                                 - 24 -

PROJECT OBJECTIVES

The Health Reform Pilot Project, that includes two regional sub-projects ("Health Reform in Kaluga
Oblast" and "Health Reform in Tver Oblast") and two federal components ("National Training Program in
Family Medicine" and "Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination") was implemented in accordance with
Loan Agreement # 4182 RU, dated October 9, 1997, between the Russian Federation and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Loan Agreement was approved by Resolution of the
Government of the Russian Federation # 52, dated January 19, 1998. The Loan became effective on April
20, 1998.

Original Objective

The project objective is to improve the quality and efficiency of health services as a whole, and,
particularly, those in the area of mother and child care and cardiovascular health in the two pilot oblasts,
with a view to furthering the decision concerning the possibility of nation-wide replication of specific health
reform actions.
Most of the project activities are experimental in nature; therefore, it was decided to test them in two
regions specially selected for this purpose.

Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (RF), Ministry of Finance of the RF and IBRD jointly put
together a list of six regions that were potentially planned to participate in the Project. The selection of the
participants was based on the agreed list of criteria: "average" income levels and health status indicators,
interest in establishing new provider payment mechanisms and carrying out health reforms, willingness to
provide counterpart funds and share debt service burden with the Federal Government. The selected
oblasts were invited to present their respective programs of health care system reform that were reviewed at
a workshop held in Moscow in October 1994. Based on the competition among the presented programs,
that was carried out with participation of the representatives from the MOH and MOF, Tver and Kaluga
oblasts were selected to participate in the Project.

Since the enhanced role of primary health care personnel is central to the health restructuring in Russia, it
was deemed necessary to retrain physicians and nurses in general practice (family medicine) as a specialty,
on a large scale. This project activity is also aimed at supporting the development of family medicine
training programs in the Sechenov Moscow Medical Academy (MMA) and in medical institutions in
Kaluga and Tver Oblasts.

Monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of project outcomes also constitute an important component of
the project's substantive tasks.

The project is focused on the following three health reform priorities:
-      improved incentive systems of provider payment through introducing output-driven,
       costing-conscious payment mechanisms, coupled with care quality assurance schemes based on
       information systems;
-      reorientation of health services through strengthening primary health care with an emphasis on a
       network of family doctors, and correspondingly, reducing the inpatient treatment services;
-      improved practices in two important areas of care ­ maternal and child health and cardiovascular
       health ­ with an emphasis on health promotion and improved quality, efficiency, and accessibility of
       prevention, diagnosis and treatment.




                                                      - 25 -

Revised Project Parameters

The project key goals and objectives were not revised during implementation. During the mid-term review
of the project (April 2001), the definitions and values of some key project indicators were modified for
purposes of their clarification and specification.

In view of the changes occurred during the project implementation, two Addenda to the Loan Agreement
were signed:

l On January 16, 2002, the Loan Agreement was amended to define:


- a new design of the Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination Component.

    As the Central Scientific and Research Institute for Informatization and Organization of Health Care
    (CSRIIOHC) (the successor of the Medsotsekonominform Research and Operation Association) was
    closed, the federal Ministry of Health assumed the functions of an implementing agency for this
    component;

- changes to the procurement procedures for the reconstruction and equipment of the Rzhev Perinatal
Center (Tver Oblast).

    It was agreed with the World Bank to waiver the initially planned "turnkey" contract, and to use
    National Competitive Bidding procedures to procure the civil works, and medical equipment under
    separate tenders.

l On November 6, 2003, after the Government f the Russian Federation approved the draft Program of
    the State External Borrowings for the Year 2004 as part of the draft Law "On the Federal Budget for
    the Year 2004" on August 14, 2003, that provided for the discontinuation of signing new contracts
    under the Health Reform Pilot Project starting from September 1, 2003 and pursuant to a decision
    adopted by the 7th Meeting of the Joint Working Group of the Government of the Russian Federation
    and the World Bank, the undisbursed part (US$ 29,333,594.00) of the loan for the Health Reform Pilot
    Project was cancelled.

Project Management

The project was implemented by the Project Management Units in the Tver and Kaluga Oblasts, the
Moscow Medical Academy named after I.M.Sechenov for the National Family Medicine Training
Program, and the Central Scientific and Research Institute for Informatization and Organization of Health
Care of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation for the Monitoring, Evaluation, and
Dissemination Component. The overall project management and coordination rested with the Central
Support Unit under the Russian Health Care Foundation which is a nongovernmental, noncommercial
entity established pursuant to Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation # 1295, dated
October 31, 1996.

The Project Implementation Units were staffed following the World Bank's procedures.

The project implementation was directly supported, steered, and supervised by the Ministry of Health of the
Russian Federation, Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, Ministry of Economic Development
and Trade of the Russian Federation, the Federal Center for Project Finance, and the Trustee Board of the


                                                     - 26 -

Foundation.

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION BY COMPONENT

Project Part A: Health Reform in the Kaluga Oblast

Delivery System Restructuring Component

Though there are no medical higher education institutions in the Kaluga Oblast, a family medicine training
system was established there. Under the General Practice (Family Medicine) Training Program, the project
enabled the Oblast to: train 99 GPs, 48 GP nurses, open 29 individual general practices, and 11 group
practices, establish a GP Training Center. Nine Consultation, Diagnostic, and Treatment Centers (CDTCs)
were set up to provide, first of all, support the existing network of general practices.

As regards health services rationalization, 113 inefficiently used inpatient beds were closed as a result of
the project activities in the Kaluga Oblast.

At the same time, 184 day beds were deployed, with the average length of stay amounting 3.8 days.
In 2001, a Day Surgery Center was opened under the Emergency Hospital. The Center has 30 beds, and
owing to its operation, the Emergency Hospital increased the share of outpatient treatment of all surgical
cases from 23.4 % to 50.7 %.

The project procured modern medical equipment (an angiograph, a lithotripter, etc.) which permitted to
introduce new medical technologies and, thus, to improve the quality of treatment and diagnosis.

Restructuring Provider Incentives Component

The project activities resulted into an increased share of health expenditures for outpatient care (from 30 %
to 42 %). The average length of stay got reduced: overall for the oblast by 3.5 days (from 18.5 to 15.0
days) and for the Project's pilot sites by 5.4 days (from 13.9 to 8.5 days).

In 2003, inpatient facilities reduced the volume of care by 109,500 bed-days through faster examinations,
new treatment methods and technologies. That saved Rbl 30.2 million which were spent to finance health
services in day care facilities and policlinics.

The Oblast budget increased the share of the health budget from 16 % up to 19 %.

The share of health expenditures rose from 16 % to 20 % of the total Oblast's expenditures (including
regional budget, financing from the federal budget, investments funds, etc.).

A capitation-based formula was developed for health budgeting in the Mandatory Health Insurance System;
the 2003 budget of the Oblast Health Insurance Fund is based on the capitation rate.

Under the introduced payment system for inpatient services, they are paid for by tariff and department
specialty.
The project included incentives for primary health care personnel in a number of health facilities in the
Kaluga Oblast. An important output of this component is the decrease in admissions of manageable cases
by 10 %.




                                                      - 27 -

Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning Component

Over the project life, the prevalence of anemia during pregnancy decreased from 47.0 % to 41.3 %; a new
surfactant-based treatment technology was introduced for neonates with respiratory distress-syndrome; the
infant mortality decreased from 19.3  to 11.7 , the perinatal mortality reduced from 17.1  to 12.0
, the early neonatal mortality lowered from 10.4  to 7.5 , and the number of stillbirths went down
from 8.0  to 5.8 ; the abortion rate lowered from 56.7 % to 39.6 %.

A system of rooming-in was established in many maternity homes oblast-wide: as of 2003, rooming-in beds
accounted for 65 % of all obstetric beds. A methodological Center for Breast Feeding Support and
Promotion was set up and helped to raise the share of breast-feeding till the age of 3 months and till the age
of 6 months, respectively, from 59.9 % up to 87.1 %, and from 24.9 % up to 60.9 %.

A safe maternity system was established, the maternity departments of low-capacity Central Rayon
Hospitals were closed since the number of deliveries had been below 100 per year in each of them, and now
pregnant women are referred on a planned basis to deliver in multi-specialty hospitals with 24-hour
services of intensive care. This project activity resulted into increased share of normal deliveries ­ from
18.6 % to 22.5 %.

Three maternity homes were certified and awarded the WHO-UNICEF status of Baby-Friendly Hospitals,
and it was for the first time in the WHO experience that this status was awarded to an outpatient facility ­
City Women Consultation # 4 in Kaluga.

Project Part B. Health Reform in the Tver Oblast

Restructuring Cardiovascular Health Services Component

The project improved the prevention system to reduce the prevalence of and mortality from CVDs. The
component included mass-media campaigns, health promotion schools, campaigns against smoking. A
network of healthy schools was set up among general education schools.

The Tver State Medical Academy (TMA) established a Training Center for CVD prevention
trainers/teachers, 4 training programs were developed for TMA students covering the prevention of
smoking, essential hypertension, alcoholism and hypodynamia.

The system of post-diploma training of doctors in CVD prevention was improved through establishing
special courses which were subsequently transformed into a Public Health School under the TMA's
Post-Diploma Training Faculty for doctors.

Procured diagnostic equipment allowed to introduce new methods of CVD diagnostics and to expand the
volume of diagnostic services for CVD patients by 65 % compared to 1998. Among diabetes cases, the
silent ischemic heart disease detection rate increased by 4 %. The glycohemoglobin method was introduced
to test for adequacy of glycemic control.

New methods were introduced to diagnose and treat vascular eye diseases in pancreatic diabetes cases; they
are unique for the Tver Oblast and include fluorescent angiography and laserophotocoagulation of the
retina. As a result, the detection of diabetic retinopathy increased from 18 % in 2001 up to 54 % in 2003.

Procured ambulances with special resuscitation equipment helped to attain significant improvements in


                                                      - 28 -

emergency care for patients with acute cardiovascular diseases and trauma.

The process of reorganization produced a new training system for the emergency and ambulance service. A
Training Center was established. The Center is designated to provide training in first aid skills not only for
health workers but also for general population, school children, students, traffic police staff, and personnel
of the emergency situations units.
The newly introduced high-tech up-to-date method of magnetic resonance imaging substantially expanded
the scope of diagnostics in the Tver Oblast health sector.

Family Medicine Component

The project included outpatient/policlinic services restructuring through the development of general practice
(family medicine): 50 GP offices and 8 Consultation, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (CDTCs) were
established in the Oblast; the Tver State Medical Academy set up a Family Medicine Chair with 2 training
clinics; 153 general practitioners were trained.

Provisional Regulations were approved to govern the performance management and remuneration for the
general/family practitioner, a provisional model of outcomes was designed and implemented to assess GPs'
performance. The impact of general practices and the CDTCs consists in improved quality of services,
expanded scope of primary health care provided by general practitioners, better access to high-quality
diagnostics and treatment, higher satisfaction of patients with the health personnel.

According to a comparative analysis of general practice offices' performance over 2001 ­ 2003, the
number of visits to general practitioners increased by 68.9 %. At the same time, there is a rise in the
volumes of care provided by GPs in specialties other than therapy: there is a twofold increase in the number
of surgical, ophthalmologic, and neurological visits, tree-fold increase in pediatric visits, and a four-fold
increase in obstetric and gynecologic visits to GPs, with the number of referrals to narrow specialists
reduced 1.5 times.

Maternal and Child Health Component

During the project implementation, an Antenatal Training Center was established and equipped, and
advanced methods were introduced to educate pregnant women and their families so that they could be
prepared for the baby birth. Health workers from residential hospitals and feldsher and midwife stations
were trained in these methods which helped to increase the share of women educated under the Informed
Delivery Program by 43.7 %.

Owing to the healthy nutrition counseling offered to pregnant women, as well as prescription of
iron-containing medications, the rate of anemia during pregnancy went down from 41.85 % (1998) to 38.53
% (2003).

Medical equipment was provided for the Neonatal Center and the post-surgery neonatal department in the
Oblast Clinical Hospital, and to a number of maternity homes in the Tver Oblast. It became feasible to
ensure timely transportation of high-risk neonates under optimal conditions. Rooming-in is now practiced
in all maternity homes of Tver oblast, except for Rzhev maternity home due to the on-going reconstruction
and Maternity home #3 of Tver City as this facility of dealing with pregnancy pathologies, which makes
84% of all obstetrics beds in Tver oblast.
Project activities allowed to reduce neonatal mortality by 45 % and early neonatal mortality by 58 %.
Training activities covered all the levels of health services delivery.


                                                      - 29 -

Upon introduction of a developed protocol for pregnancy hypertension, its incidence went down by 37.56
%, and another new protocol was developed for neonatal distress syndrome. In addition, it was undertaken
to develop clinical protocols to manage anemia during pregnancy and premature delivery.

A monitoring mechanism was worked out for quality indicators of breast feeding.

The project provided equipment for the Family Planning Center and Reproductive Health Offices were
equipped; it included continuous efforts to train health personnel in reproductive health (particularly, in
residential hospitals and feldsher and midwife stations); procured up-to-date contraceptives which were
distributed free of charge ­ all these contributed to the decline in abortions, and women's reorientation
towards up-to-date family planning methods.

Restructuring Provider Incentives Component

Project activities included a shift of the emphasis from costly inpatient services to more cost-efficient
alternative care technologies to replace them. Since 1994, the number of day care facilities has increased
3.6 times in the Oblast; in the total number of treated cases, the share of alternative care technologies rose
to 10.3 % (in 1994, it was 1.63 %). At the same time, it should be noted that in 2002, the average cost of
inpatient treatment amounted to Rbl 1,978 per case whereas the cost of treatment under alternative care
technologies was only Rbl 793 per patient, i.e. 2.5 times cheaper which permitted to save over Rbl 31
million.

The bed stock restructuring outputs include: the number of inpatient beds reduced from 21,298 to 17,899;
in the pilot sites, the length of stay per bed shortened from 14.5 to 12.6 days; and the share of current
expenditures for outpatient/policlinic services increased from 33 % to 46.1 %.

With a view to improving the provider payment system, several payment methods were tested - from
retrospective payment, i.e. payment for actually provided volumes of care, to line item norm-based
budgeting. The currently applied financing method is based on capitation rates, with a global budget to be
approved for agreed volumes of care.
Health expenditures went up in the Tver Oblast. The consolidated health budget increased from Rbl 634.0
million up to Rbl 1,968.0 million. The amounts actually made available for health care (including all
sources of financing and attracted funds) raised from Rbl 573.0 million to Rbl 2,346.0 million.

National Family Medicine Training Program

The component produced a principle of general (family) practice integration in primary health care in the
Russian Federation, using a health service as the object of health care standardization.

It developed a concept of a professional model for the general/family practitioner, using a health service as
the object of standardization of his knowledge, capabilities, and skills.

The component drafted an Order on Outpatient/Policlinic Care Improvement in the Russian Federation,
subsequently issued by the MOH as Order # 350, dated November 20, 2002.

-        A General (Family) Practice Department was opened under the MMA's Clinical Center.
-        The MMA established a Family Medicine Research Unit of federal significance.
-        A Federal Association of General (Family) Practitioners was established.


                                                      - 30 -

-       A State Post-Graduate Professional Training Standard was developed to train medical
professionals with higher education in specialty 040110, i.e. in general practice (family medicine).
-       A technology was developed to train family medicine trainers.
-       A technology was developed to train practicing doctors in general practice under on-site
general/family practice specialization courses.

The drafted GP's performance management regulations and the general practice (family medicine) training
technology were tested in the MMA and in pilot sites in the Tver and Kaluga Oblasts as well as in a
number of other regions in the Russian Federation to disseminate the component outputs.

Based the developed technology, 44 family medicine trainers were trained for the TMA in the Tver Oblast;
and in the Kaluga Oblast, 29 family medicine trainers and 80 general practitioners (family doctors) were
trained from practicing health workers.

Monitoring, Evaluation, and Dissemination Component

The component developed methods to collect, analyze and evaluate project indicators.

It included routine implementation monitoring. Three evaluation exercises were undertaken: at inception, at
mid-term and final evaluation.

As per the Addendum to the Loan Agreement of April 16, 2002, required regulatory documents were
agreed and signed to identify the new component design. The component coordination and management
were assumed by the MOH, but the component coordinator position was preserved under the CSU, and
similar positions were introduced in the Oblast Project Management Units. Those institutional changes
enabled the component to optimize its quality and substantially improve its implementation to contribute to
the achievement of the project objectives.

Experts from the CSRIIOHC made regular field trips to Tver and Kaluga to collect data on the resource
base of the pilot regions and on provider incentives.

The component staff regularly held seminars and training sessions for project participants.

The component issued 8 information bulletins to highlight the project implementation which were published
in the Meditsinskiy Vestnik Newspaper.

It opened a continuously up-dated web-page to present project progress information.

A study was undertaken to analyze the health restructuring processes in the Tver and Kaluga Oblasts under
the Monitoring, Evaluation, and Dissemination Component of the Health Reform Pilot Project. The study
provided a basis for developing assessment methods and projections of social and economic impact of
health reforms on the social and economic development both in the pilot regions and in Russia on the
whole.

MAJOR FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED PROJECT OUTCOMES

Factors outside the Control of the Government and Implementing Agencies

The project started during the period of economic and administrative reforms in the Russian Federation


                                                    - 31 -

accompanied with financial instability, deficits of the federal and regional budgets, weak legal frameworks
which significantly impaired the project progress.

The economic crisis of August, 1998, led to the bankruptcy of the Menatep bank, and that, in its turn,
resulted into freezing of the funds in the amount of US$ 900,165,000 managed by the Russian Health Care
Foundation, and kept on the account of the said bank. Later, this amount was reimbursed from the federal
budget.

By the time the Kaluga Oblast was authorized to disburse loan funds (September 9, 1998), it turned out to
be unable to provide the co-financing planned in its 1998 budget, due to the rouble devaluation, and so it
failed to cover the respective costs of project activities. The financial crisis brought about the delay in the
approval of the 1999 budget till June 1999. Prior to that date, the Kaluga Oblast did not provide funds
either for the loan servicing or for co-financing. The implementation of project activities started as late as
after the autumn (September 1999) mission of the World Bank when the steps to enable the Oblast to
continue project implementation were agreed with the Kaluga Oblast top-officials. Thus, the Oblast lost an
entire year of the earlier agreed project life.

As regards the Tver Oblast, the financial crisis of August 1998 prevented it from committing adequate
co-financing under the approved Oblast budget to cover the respective costs of project activities, and
therefore, the project implementation virtually started in 1999.

Factors within the Government Control

The negative factors included frequent turnovers of the managerial staff at the level of the regional project
participants which entailed alternations in approaches (often for the opposite ones), and visions of the
project goals and objectives.
E.g., in December 2001, the project implementation was suspended in the Tver Oblast by decision of the
Governor. The implementation was resumed in March 2002.

On August 14, 2003, the Government of the Russian Federation approved the draft External Borrowing
Program of the Russian Federation for 2004 as part of the draft Law on the Federal Budget for 2004. It
was thereby to decided to stop contracting under the project since September 1, 2003. That decision
precluded the implementation of a number of project activities, including the procurement of medical
equipment for GP offices in the Tver and Kaluga Oblasts, computer hardware for the Center of
Prophylaxis in the Tver Oblast, and an integrated automated management system for the Tver emergency
and ambulance care station.

No less important is that implementation delays were also accounted for by lack of adequate experience and
knowledge in the regional Project Management Units to deal with the World Bank procedures for procuring
goods and services. Training and capacity building occurred in the course of project implementation, and
over time, this situation ceased to slow down the project progress.

Conclusions

The health Reform Pilot Project has helped to:

-        improve the quality and efficiency of health services, particularly, in the area of maternity and child
health, and cardiovascular disease prevention and treatment, in the Tver and Kaluga Oblasts;
-        work towards a more cost-efficient system of health care;


                                                      - 32 -

-        undertake the development of a sustainable and transparent health finance mechanism;
-        establish efficient health facilities with modern equipment, including offices of family
practitioners;
-        contribute to the development of the National Family Medicine Training Program;
-        accumulate systematized and generalized health reform experience drawing upon the lessons learnt
by the Tver and Kaluga Oblasts;
-        disseminate the project outputs to assist the federal authorities in making decisions concerning
nation-wide implementation of specific health reform activities.

Thus, it should be admitted that most of the Health Reform Pilot Project objectives have been met, which
makes it reasonable to generalize and disseminate the experience gained by the project.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 33 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              16.4% for Kaluga and 19.1% for Tver          22.9 percent for Kaluga and 20.6% for Tver
(a) Restructuring Provider Incentives:
(i) reduced hospital admissions rate (% of
population)

(a) Restructuring Provider Incentives : (ii)  16.6 days for Kaluga and 15.5 days for Tver  15 days for Kaluga and 15.4 for Tver
reduced average length of hospital stay
(days);

(a) Restructuring Provider Incentives: (iii)  50% for Kaluga and                           42% for Kaluga and 46% in Tver
increased share of health spending on
outpatient services (%);

(a) Restructuring Provider Incentives : (iv)  106.7 beds per 10,000 population for Kaluga From 125 to 110 for Kaluga
closure of hospital beds per 10,000
population (Kaluga only)
(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services:      20                                           30
(i) number of general practices operating
under reformed functions (Kaluga only);

(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       24                                           17
(ii) number of group practices operating
under reformed functions (Kaluga only);
Target for 2002: 23
(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       9                                            9 in Kaluga and 8 in Tver
(iii) number of CDTCs operating under
reformed functions;

(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       100                                          153
(iv) number of family doctor residency
graduates from Tver Medical Academy (Tver
only);
(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       Tver- 100                                    50
(v) number of family medicine clinics opened
(Tver);
(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       ongoing                                      Achieved
(vi) model of family practice developed
(Moscow Medical Academy);
(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       3                                            3
(vii) new training curricula for family
physicians developed (MMA);
(b) Strengthening Primary Care Services       NA                                           NA
(viii) number of regional training centers
established;
(c) Improving MCH and Cardiovascular          at registration: Tver - 31%, Kaluga - 30% (% at registration Tver - 38.5, Kaluga - 41.3, at
Health:                                       of pregnant women), at delivery : Tver - 20, delivery: Tver - 24.07, Kaluga - 21.7
(i) anemia in pregnancy reduced (% of         Kaluga -18 (% of pregnant women)
pregnant women);
(c) Improving MCH and Cardiovascular          Kaluga - 10.5%, Tver - 10.5% (% of pregnant Kaluga - 17.0%, Tver - 11.8
Health (ii) hypertensive disorders of         women)
pregnancy reduced (% of pregnant women);

(c) Improving MCH and Cardiovascular          Kaluga - 9.0, Tver - 12.5; Tver- perinatal   Kaluga - 7.5, Tver - 7.4, Perinatal mortality,
Health (iii) neonatal and perinatal mortality mortality - 17.7 (per 1000 live births)      Tver - 12.9 (per 1000 live births)
rates reduced (per 1,000 live births);

(c) Improving MCH and Cardiovascular          Abortion rate: Tver and Kaluga - 40 (per     Kaluga - 39.6, Tver - 43.9
Health (iv) contraceptive prevalence          1,000 women between the ages of 15 - 49
increased (% of women 15-49);

(c) Improving Cardiovascular Health (v)       reduction by 4% - 5 % over 5 years           Reduced by 5 percent in 3.5 years




                                                                 - 34 -

decline in smoking rate (men), incidence of
stroke and death from cardiovascular disease
(Tver only);

# of registered and monitored essential      Increased by 10 percent            Increased by 59 percent
hypertension cases
                                             Reduced by 3 percent               Reduced by 3.9 percent
# of newly detected cases of acute
Myocardial Infarction (per year)
(a) monitoring and evaluation system in      Achieved                           Achieved
operation (ongoing);

(b) Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination:
number of conferences/seminars held to
disseminate project results and lessons
                                                                                target achieved
(c) project Web-site designed, project
information newsletter published.


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
This is a format for new projects prepared
with the use of the Logframe. Not applicable
to HRPP




1End of project




                                                              - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million       US$ million
I: Kaluga Oblast Health Reform                                    44.20              16.90             38
II: Tver Oblast Health Reform                                     38.00              16.00             42
III: National Training Program in Family Medicine                  2.80               0.46             16
IV: Monitoring and Evaluation and Dissemination                    1.40               0.33             23
V: Central Support Unit                                            2.80               2.24             80

Total Baseline Cost                                               89.20              35.93
 Physical Contingencies                                            4.30
 Price Contingencies                                               5.10
                           Total Project Costs                    98.60              35.93
                    Total Financing Required                      98.60              35.93
The actual costs' figures are for Loan funds only. The cofinancing fugures were not available.




                                                   - 36 -

                               Project Costs by Loan Agreement Categories


                                                                   Amount of the Loan Amount Disbursed Government
                               Category
                                                                      Allocated        from the Loan   Contribution

                                                                     US Dollars          US Dollars    US Dollars


                            Kaluga Oblast                                                              1,688,723.00


1) Works under Parts A.1 and A.3 of the Project                      1,400,000          1,140,478



2) Medical and computer equipment, pharmaceuticals, training                           12,714,619
                                                                     17,900,000
materials, supplies and vehicles under Part A


3) Consulting and contractual services and training under Part A     8,300,000          1,023,177
of the Project


4) Health provider payments under Part A.2 of the Project            1,400,000           205,179


5) Health promotion activities under Part A.3                        1,000,000           123,100


                             Tver Oblast                                                               1,825,086


6) Works under Part B.3 of the Project                               2,400,000               0


7) Medical and computer equipment, pharmaceuticals, training         18,400,000        12,797,392
materials, supplies and vehicles under Part B


8) Health Promotion activities under Part B.1 of the Project         1,000,000            82,946


9) Health promotion activities under Part B.3                        1,300,000            38,708


10) Consulting and contractual services and training under Part B    6,900,000          1,253,248


              Federal Components (MMA and MSEI)                                                          266,455


11) Medical, computer and office equipment and training               771,000            172,959
materials under Parts C and D of the Project


12) Consulting services and training under Parts C and D             2,000,000           570,138
of the Project


13) RHCF operating costs                                             2,500,000          2,126,871


14) Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                          729,000            453,405
Total:                                                               66,000,000        32,702,220      3,780,264




                                                       - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/22/1993                5    Team Leader (1); Health
                                             Economist (1); Health Specialist
                                             (2); Operations Officer (1)
              10/19/1993                6    Team Leader (1); Health
                                             Economist (2); PHN Specialist
                                             (1); MCH Specialist (1); Medical
                                             Advisor (1)
              11/28/1993                6    Health Economist (2);
                                             Pharmaceutical Specialist (1);
                                             Public Health Specialist (2);
                                             Health Care Management
                                             Specialist (1);
              2/1/1994                  5    Health Economist (1);
                                             Pharmaceutical Specialist (1);
                                             OBGYN Specialist (1); PHN
                                             Specialist (1); Health Care
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              3/20/1994                 2    OBGYN Specialist (1); PHN
                                             Specialist (1)
              5/22/1994                 5    Pharmaceutical Specialist (1);
                                             OBGYN Specialist (1); Medical
                                             Educator (1); Health Care
                                             Management Specialist (1); PHN
                                             Specialist (1)
              7/10/1994                 8    Operations Advisor (1); Health
                                             Care Administrator (1);
                                             Pharmaceutical Specialist (2);
                                             OBGYN Specialist (1);
                                             Emergency Care Specialist (1);
                                             Health Finance Specialist (1);
                                             PHN Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/3/1996               11     Team Leader (1); Health
                                             Economist (1); Medical
                                             specialists (7); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Procurement (1)


 Supervision

              06/01/1998               10    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                  S               S
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                             (1); HEALTH FINANCING
                                             SPEC. (1); PROJECT OFFICER
                                             (RM) (1); PROCUREMENT



                                              - 39 -

                SPEC. (RM) (1); CVD
                SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                MANAGMN.SPEC. (1);
                HEALTH MIS SPECIALIST (1);
                FAMILY MEDICINE, GP (1);
                HEALTH PROMOTION SPEC.
                (1)
01/16/1999    3 TASK LEADER (1); PROJECT     U    S
                COORDINATOR(RM (1);
                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
06/12/1999    7 SECTOR LEADER (1);           U    S
                PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                (1); TTL, IMPLEMENT.,
                PROCU (1); PROJECT
                COORDINATOR-RM (1);
                HEALTH FINANCING (1);
                PROCUREMENT -RM (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEM-RM
                (1)
10/01/1999    6 TASK&MISSION LEADER (1);     U    S
                PTL (1); HEALTH FINANCING
                SPEC. (1); GENERAL
                PRACTITIONER (1);
                MOSCOW OFFICE/PROJ.COO
                (1); MOSCOW
                OFF/PROCUREMENT (1)
04/14/2000    8 TTL,PROJECT                  S    S
                MANAGEMENT (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER/MOS
                (1); FAMILY MEDICINE
                CONSUL (1); HEALTH
                FINANCING CONSU (1); MCH
                SPECIALIST, WHO (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                S (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); PTL (1)
11/30/2000    4 TASK/MISSION LEADER (1);     S    S
                HEALTH FINANCING (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (RM
                (1)
12/14/2001    2 MOSCOW OFFICE (1);           S    S
                PROVIDER PAYMENT (1)
03/04/2002    8 TEAM LEADER (1); PULIC       S    S
                HEALTH SP. (1); HEALTH
                FINANCING SP. (1); HEALTH
                ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT
                COORDINATOR,RM (1); MED.
                EQUIPMENT SP. (1);
                PROCUREMENT SP., RM (1);
                PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)
10/11/2002    4 TTL, HEALTH ECONOMIST        S    S
                (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.



                - 40 -

                                           (1); PROJECT COORDINATOR
                                           (1); CONSULTANT,
                                           ECONOMIST (1)


 ICR

               04/26/2003             5     TTL, HEALTH ECONOMIST              S
                                            (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                            SPECIALI (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1); FIN
                                            MANAGEMENT OFFICER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             238                           572
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                            391                           909
  ICR                                      4                            12
  Total                                  633                          1493




                                            - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 44 -

- 45 -

