Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3146-MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 4, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3146-MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter (Letter of Policy), dated 
November 3, 1998, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
Page  2
1997), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read: “‘Project’ means the 
program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, in support 
of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): “12. ‘Participating Country’ means any 
country that the Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 
of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996 and “Participating Countries” means collectively, all such countries.”;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made 
in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawal 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payments 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by 
a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations”.; 
(f)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(g)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: “(c) Not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(h)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ADMARC” means the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation 
established pursuant to the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation Act, 
Cap. 67.03 of the Borrower’s Laws; 
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending June 30 of the 
following year; 
(d)
“Malawi Kwacha” means the currency of the Borrower;  
(e)
“MTEF” means the Borrower’s medium-term expenditure framework, the 
purpose of which is to integrate the process of sectoral policy decision-making and 
Page  3
priority setting for budgetary allocations; and
(f)
“Point of Sale” means with respect to an enterprise that the Borrower 
has: (i) carried out a valuation of the enterprise; (ii) prepared a prospectus or 
information memorandum for the enterprise; and (iii) solicited offers for the sale of 
such enterprise either directly or through advertisements as appropriate. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-five million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 65,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 43,800,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of 
views, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, 
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2009 and ending August 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Page  5
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.  
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049 Capital City Lilongwe 3 Malawi
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANCE 44407 
MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Willie Chokani 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Barbara Kafka
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
Page  7
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association]);  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
The Borrower has: 
1.
implemented (a) measures on meeting expenditure targets for the first two 
quarters of Fiscal Year 1998/1999 referred to in paragraph 11 and Annex 1 of the 
Letter of Policy; (b) measures on expenditure monitoring and control procedures 
referred to in paragraphs 13 and 14 and Annex 2 of the Letter of Policy; and (c) the 
MTEF in the manner referred to in paragraph 12 and Annex 3 of the Letter of Policy; 
2.
implemented the rationalization of Borrower’s government functions in accordance 
with the agreed timetable referred to in paragraph 15 and Annex 4 of the Letter of 
Policy; 
3.
(a)
implemented the action plan satisfactory to the Association for the 
bringing to the Point of Sale of the Borrower’s interest in the enterprises referred 
to in paragraph 18 and Annex 5 of the Letter of Policy; and
(b)
prepared a privatization and commercialization program for ADMARC; 
4.
(a)
enacted communications legislation, satisfactory to the Association on 
the basis of the principles referred to in paragraph 20 of the Letter of Policy; 
(b)
appointed advisers to assist the Borrower in securing a strategic partner 
for Malawi Telecoms as referred to in paragraph 20 and Annex 6 of the Letter of 
Policy; and
(c)
has licensed two cellular operators; 
5.
reviewed the Electricity Act to ensure that procedures satisfactory to the 
Association for licensing and tariff rate adjustment, as referred to in paragraph 22 
of the Letter of Policy, are clarified; 
6.
carried out a review of the financial sector regulatory framework with a view to 
identifying reforms to strengthen and unify the regulatory framework, restructure and 
Page  8
privatize the financial sector and furnished to the Association the report and 
recommendations of such review; and (b) issued guidelines, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the privatization of the main commercial banks as referred to in 
paragraph 19 of the Letter of Policy.
