Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17028
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3065/CREDIT 2022-IN)
SEPTEMBER 11, 1997
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 14.6   =   US$1.00 (Appraisal: 1989)
Rs. 26.0   =   US$1. 00 (Intervening years: 1988-96)
Rs. 35.0   =   US$1.00 (Completion Year: 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare(ha)   =    (10,000m2) = 2.47 acres
I kilogram (kg)       2.205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)   =    0.6214 miles
I meter(m)   =    3.281 feet
1 square kilometer (ki2)     0.385 square miles
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 to March 31
Vice President:          Mieko Nishimizu
Director:                Edwin Lim
Sector Managers:         Ridwan Ali/Mchael Baxter
Task Manager:            M. Balasubramanian



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BA                Beneficiary Assessment
CRC               Chawki Rearing Center
CSB               Central Silk Board
CSRTI             Central Sericultural Research and Training Institute
CSTRI             Central Silk Technological Research Institute
DFLs              Disease-Free Layings
DOS               Department/Directorate of Sericulture
EPC               Enterprise Promotion Cell
GOI               Government of India
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDBI              Industrial Development Bank of India
J & K             Jammu and Kashmir
KSSDI             Karnataka State Sericulture Development Institute
KSP-I             Karnataka Sericulture Project (Cr. 1034-IN)
LDB               Land Development Bank
LSP               Licensed Seed Producers
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS               Management Information System
MOT               Ministry of Textiles
NABARD            National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NGO               Non-governmental organization
NSP               National Sericulture Project
RSRS              Regional Sericulture Research Station
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SDC               Swiss Development Cooperation
TSC               Technical Service Center
WB                World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
Bivoltine                             Race of silkworm from temperate regions
which breed twice a year and whose eggs
go through hibernation (dormancy) period.
Charka                                Simple, hand-driven silk reeling machine
with one basin and four to six ends.
Chawki                                Young silkworm up to the age of about 12
days after hatching.
Filature                              Large-scale, modern reeling factory.
Grainage                              Establishment where silkworm eggs are
produced through mating of worms and
multiplication process.
Pl/P2/P3 Seed Farms                   Farms in which the first stages of
multiplication of eggs is done from "parent
seed."



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3065/Credit 2022-IN)
. TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................................................                                                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                      ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................1
A.  Project Objectives ........................................................1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................ 3
C.  Implementation Record .........................................................9
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................                                  10
E.  Bank  and Co-Financier Performance ....................................................... 11
F.  Borrower Performance .......................................................                                   13
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                                 13
H. Future Operations .......................................................                                       14
I.   Key Lessons Learned .......................................................                                   15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1: Summary of Assessments .................................................                                17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................................                             19
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................                                      19
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........ 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................... 21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................... 22
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ..................................................                        22
Table 8A: Project Costs .................................................                                         23
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................                                     24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................                              25
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................                            26
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 33
Table  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................                           33
Table  13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................                             34
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B.  Borrower's Evaluation Report on Project Completion






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3065/Credit 2022-IN)
PREFACE
This is an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Sericulture
Project in India, for which Credit 2022-IN in the amount of SDR1 13.8 million (US$147
million equivalent) and Loan 3065-IN in the amount of US$30 rnillion were approved on
May 18, 1989 and made effective on September 14, 1989. Co-financing for the project
was provided by a grant from the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) in the amount
of Sfr40 million (US$25 million equivalent). As part of the funds redeployment exercise,
the full loan amount of US$30 million was canceled in December 1991 followed by three
other cancellations of the IDA Credit: SDR10.570 million in May 1993; SDR6.425 million
in July 1995; and SDR14.5 million in March 1997, for a total of SDR31.495 million (US$
43.8 million equivalent).
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996 as scheduled. Final disbursement
was made on June 12, 1997 and the revised Credit amount of SDR82.305 million
(US$103.2 million equivalent) was fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission' which visited India in
January/February 1997. It was finalized by M. Balasubramanian, Task Manager, Resident
Staff in India, and reviewed by Herman van Wersch, Principal Operations Officer, and
Ridley Nelson, Principal Agricultural Economist, Rural Development Sector Unit, South
Asia Region, and incorporates changes resulting from internal Bank review. This ICR is
based on a review of Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), legal documents, supervision reports
and other material in the project file as well as field investigations, and discussions with a
wide range of project participants.
SDC expressed satisfaction that the ICR fully reflects their concern and did not
feel the need for a separate contribution to the report.
I  Messrs. N.D. A. Hameed (Mission Leader), A. Morton (Sericulturist) and N. Storr (Economist).






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3065-IN/Credit 2022-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
1.          The involvement of the Bank in the Indian Sericulture Sector began in
1980 when it approved the Kamataka Sericulture Project (KSP-Credit 1034-IN) for a
Credit of US$54 million. The National Sericulture Project (NSP), which is the subject of
this Implementation Completion Report (ICR), is a follow-up to the KSP, extending
coverage to India's four other major sericulture states (Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and
Kashmir, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal) and supporting pilot developments in twelve
other states where sericulture is a relatively new activity. It has been implemented since
1989 with World Bank (WB) and Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) assistance.
Project Objectives.
2.          The NSP aimed at assisting sericulture development in India by supporting
an important expansion phase requiring improvements in productivity, product quality and
support services and increased private sector involvement in the industry. As appraised,
the project included seventeen components (para. 3 of main text) and the project area
covered the five major silk producing States which together account for over 95% of raw
silk production in the country as well as twelve other "pilot" States.
3.          The project focus, addressing the main constraints that affect the
sericulture sector in India, was appropriate.  Overall, the quantitative targets were
realistic. But the target for bivoltine silk production was based on over-optimistic
assumptions of availability of proven technical packages which offered attractive returns
to farmers. Inadequacies in post-cocoon operations warranted higher priority even at the
time of identification and appraisal but the project objectives did not sufficiently address
them.
Implementation Experience and Results.
4.          The project has contributed to a substantial increase in raw silk production,
although the increase is not to the level estimated at appraisal; this increase has occurred
largely through improvements in productivity; most of the infrastructure, equipment and
skills base anticipated at appraisal are now in place to facilitate further increases in
production and distribution of better quality silkworm seed in future; and the project has



iii
also contributed to generate additional employment for about half a million full-time
workers (close to appraisal estimate) most of whom are women, and to enhance private
sector participation in seed production. The cocoon market infrastructure established
through the project has facilitated better marketing and increased market transparency.
The main shortcomings have been the failure to bring about significant increase in
commercial bivoltine cocoon production considered essential to improve the quality of
Indian silk, and the disappointing outcome of pilot operations ambitiously planned for
execution in twelve States of the country.
5.    Given the strong and increasing domestic demand for silk, and comparative
advantage features of sericulture including its potential to contribute more quickly to
employment and income generation, the Government has expressed its commitment to
provide continuing support for the sector through additional investments under the Ninth
Five Year Plan and thereafter. However, an issue which needs to be addressed relates to
the presently existing large number of central and state level staff positions which place
considerable strain on Government resources. Consideration should be given to measures
aimed at progressively devolving this public sector responsibility to the private sector.
6.    There is considerable scope for further improvements in the productivity levels of
mulbeny and cocoon production. Priority should be given to promote the adoption of
already authorized improved mulberry varieties and silkworm races, and support the
research needs of the sector to enable it to become more modern and competitive. To
ensure environmental sustainability of the sector, attention must be paid to better
management of water, soil and fuel resources.
7.    The final cost of the project was estimated at Rs.7,014.5 million compared to
Rs.5,548.7 million at appraisal. Due to the sharp decline in the exchange rate of the
Rupee, US Dollar costs were significantly less than appraisal estimates - US$248.5 million
compared to US$347.1 million. The re-estimated ERR for the project is 14% compared
to 32% at appraisal.
8.    The key factors which affected achievement of major objectives included the
outbreak of the silkworm disease pebrine in 1991 and the fall in price of imported silk in
1992/93. These caused many farmers to suffer losses, and led to widespread uprooting of
mulberry, decline in sericulture activity, and the consequent reduction in raw silk output.
Factors subject to Government and implementing agencies control included failure to
amend legislation to enable public sector grainages to achieve full recovery of the costs of
the inputs and services provided.
9.    The performance of the Bank in respect of identification was marginally
satisfactory. Its preparation performance, as well as that of the Borrower's, was deficient.
Appraisal is rated satisfactory and supervision was satisfactory in large part due to staff
continuity by both the Bank and the co-financier. The Borrower's performance in
implementation and covenant compliance was generally satisfactory.



iv
10.   The project contributed to the overall development of the sericulture sub-sector
and has achieved a number of its intended objectives. The project's achievements are
likely to be sustained. However, the major challenges will be to devolve some of the
public sector responsibilities to the private sector including reduction of its present high
recurrent costs e.g. staff salaries, and improvement of the financial performance of the
public sector grainages.
11.   The overall project outcome is assessed to be satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The support provided through the project has helped to establish a sound base for
an expanded and sustainable sericulture development program in the country. Production
infrastructure, equipment and human resources have been significantly upgraded through
project assistance. Encouragement given to enhance private sector participation has
contributed to the emergence of a large number of successful licensed private seed
producers intending to re-invest for expansion of their seed production and distribution
activities. High overhead costs and staff expenses, poor capacity utilization and
unsatisfactory revenue collection are some of the key problems of public sector operated
grainages which need to be addressed. Measures adopted to enhance the role of women
in sericulture development (para. 18a), though successful, have covered only a small
proportion of the project area population. There is a need to expand these programs in
the operational period. The project experience has shown that while non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) could make significant contribution for activities such as
community mobilization, group formation, training, etc., the role that they could
successfully play in projects which require technical expertise and business management
experience is limited.
13.   The main lessons learned (see Part I) are:
(a)   Future Operations. In the traditional silk producing States, a more cost
effective way of increasing and sustaining raw silk production would be
through raising productivity. In the States with potential for producing
bivoltine silk2, expansion of mulberry area should receive greater attention
combined with efforts to improve quality.
(b)   Project Design and Appraisal. The less than satisfactory performance
ofsome sub-components (e.g. bivoltine production / pilot States program)
of the project confirms the need for (i) greater involvement of stakeholders
in all stages of project formulation and implementation to enhance
ownership; and (ii) the availability of on-farm validated technologies to be
promoted, to ensure setting of achievable production targets.
2 e.g. in UP and Kerala.



v
(c)   Project Implementation and Supervision. There have been considerable
delays in procurement and implementation of infrastructure components.
To minimize such delays in future, the Bank and the Borrower should
ensure that detailed equipment list and relevant designs, appropriate
contract packages and tender documents are completed prior to
Negotiations. Whilst the supervision missions identified and recommended
measures to address key constraints, lack of prompt follow-up minimized
their effectiveness. The project would have benefited considerably by
having a concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system through a
third part agency which would provide both qualitative and quantitative
feed-back to project management based on project progress and
implementation experience.
(d)   Extension.  The project emphasis was on strengthening the existing
sericulture extension system and its approach. The project experience has
shown that the most effective extension agent is the progressive and
successful farmer. Greater emphasis should therefore have been placed
upon promoting farmer-to-farmer transfer of technologies.
(e)   Research. In addition to provision of infrastructure and equipment for
research and development, it is necessary to provide project support (i) for
improving/strengthening human resources for research management, and
(ii) for the establishment of performance-related career structures. To
maximize returns on investment in research infrastructure, it is necessary to
pay greater attention to develop demand-driven research projects and
timely deployment of research personnel.
(f)    NGOs. It is important to ensure that technical capabilities of participating
NGOs are thoroughly assessed at appraisal. Adequate provision should be
made in the project for imparting requisite training to such NGOs prior to
their deployment.
(g)   Social Assessment.  The project experiences reinforced the need for
conducting social assessment prior to appraisal to identify issues such as
child labor and develop appropriate strategy to address the relevant issues.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3065/Credit 2022-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
1.       The National Sericulture Project (NSP), implemented since 1989 with World
Bank (WB) and Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) assistance, represents a major
effort to support sericulture development in 17 States of India. It was designed to provide
a basis for India to exploit its natural advantage in silk production and long-term potential
for further growth, without incurring unsustainable demands on the state and central
budgets. The project aimed at strengthening and expanding the sub-sector through
increases in production, improvements in productivity, product quality, human resource
base, support services and increased private sector involvement in selected aspects of the
industry.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.       The focus of the project, addressing the main constraints that affect the Indian
silk sub-sector, was appropriate. Overall, the quantitative targets were realistic, being
obtainable through relatively modest improvements in productivity. But the target for
bivoltine raw silk production (1,000 tons) was clearly based on the assumptions that (a)
technical packages had been field validated; and (b) these packages offered an economic
opportunity to which farmers could respond. There is evidence that neither of these
assumptions was justified at the time of appraisal; in fact, the SAR made specific reference
to the technical and market constraints which continue to inhibit the expansion of bivoltine
sericulture in India. In addition, it is not clear that the implied focus on production of raw
silk per se was appropriate. The alleviation of other constraints affecting the development
of the Indian silk sub-sector, such as regulations which have negative impact on
development, and the inadequacies in post-cocoon operations, may have warranted higher
priority even at the time of identification and appraisal.



2
Project Components
3.        As appraised, the project comprised seventeen components. In terms of base
cost, the most significant components involved (a) financing of 53 new Commercial Seed
(F1) Grainages and strengthening of 13 existing government grainages, augmented by
measures designed to promote private sector grainages; (b) establishment and operation of
25 new Basic Seed (silkworm egg) farms and strengthening of 100 existing farms; (c)
strengthening of extension services provided by the state Departments of Sericulture
(DOS) through financing incremental extension staff, operating costs for a total of 441
Technical Service Centers; and (d) expansion, improvement and strengthening of research
and development facilities at the Central Silk Board (CSB) and in the states of Karnataka
and Andhra Pradesh. The remaining components included assistance to private mulberry
nurseries and young silkworm (chawki) rearing centers; establishment of cocoon markets,
cocoon drying chambers, silk exchanges and testing houses; expansion and strengthening
of training facilities; provision for technical assistance; funds for advances to reelers and
for equity participation in joint ventures; financing of women's groups and NGO activities
in sericulture; promotion of smokeless stoves in reeling units; and financing of improved
project administration facilities and incremental costs of implementing and supervising the
project.
4.         The project activities were planned for implementation over a seven-year
period from 1989. Total project cost was estimated to be Rs.5.6 billion (US$347.1
million). Of this, 51% was to be financed by the IBRD and IDA, 7.2% by the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC), 30% by commercial and cooperative banks with
refinancing support from the National Bank for Agricultural Development (NABARD)
and the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), and 11.8% by the Government of
India (GOI) and participating State Governments. It was estimated that the value of the
additional raw silk produced as a result of the project would have an annual value of
US$162 million in 1989 prices, and that the project would have an overall ERR of 32%.
Project Design
5.       Despite its complexity, the project design was generally appropriate. It built
to a large extent on the experience gained from the Karnataka Sericulture Project (KSP-I,
Credit 1034-IN, completed in 1988), extending coverage to India's four other major
sericulture states and supporting pilot developments in an additional twelve states where
sericulture is a comparatively new activity. However, in some respects, the project design
did not take sufficient account of the lessons learned from KSP-1. These include (a)
recognition of the inherent weakness of supply-side approach to the promotion of
sericulture, especially bivoltine sericulture; (b) the need to identify and address the
constraints affecting post-cocoon operations; (c) the need to prepare detailed
specifications for equipment required before implementation and to closely monitor the
procurement process to avoid implementation delays; and (d) that much longer time is
required for the establishment of infrastructure, staff positioning, training and the



3
clearance and distribution of new varieties of mulberry and silkworms. Some of the
potential risks (e.g. availability of proven technical packages and financial attractiveness of
bivoltine silk production to farmers) were underestimated. Moreover, even at the time of
appraisal, the historical volatility of the price of raw silk in the international markets and
the consistent failure of established institutions to accurately predict the market dynamics
were well known. The rapid increase in the international price of raw silk was clearly
fueled by market speculation, and it would perhaps have been appropriate for the project
design to have been based upon more conservative estimates of both the price of, and the
demand for, bivoltine raw silk.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1
Key Data and Indicators
6.        The SAR specified the key data and indicators to be included in the progress
reports of the participating states and the CSB. In addition, it specified that monitoring
and evaluation under the project would consist of an extensive program of beneficiary
assessment (BA) supplemented by benchmark socio-economic surveys undertaken in each
of the participating states at the beginning, mid-project and at the end of the project.
More than 80 BA studies were undertaken. Most of them had a qualitative focus
providing insights into development issues. But their relationship and usefulness to the
overall monitoring and evaluation of the program were not satisfactory. The benchmark
surveys have not been undertaken. The absence of a comprehensive baseline survey and
any systematic follow-up means that an objective and quantitative assessment of the
changes that have occurred during the project period is extremely difficult. Identification
of changes due to the project interventions and changes that were due to external
circumstances is confounded by the lack of with-project and without-project sample
frames in the design of the periodic reporting of key sericultural indicators. Moreover,
since April 1991, successive supervision missions have commented on the apparent lack of
reliability and internal consistency of these data. The ICR Mission had therefore based
some of its findings and conclusions on supplementary information from: (a) the
conclusions of a workshop organized with the assistance of SDC for providing a forum to
discuss the project results (January 29-31, 1997); and (b) mission estimates derived from
field investigations, discussions with a wide range of project participants and a review of
relevant documents.
Overall Achievement
7.       Despite the reservations about the adequacy of quantitative data expressed in
para. 6 above, the completion review has been able to establish that the project has
contributed to the overall development of the sericulture sub-sector and has achieved a
number of its intended objective. In particular, (a) most of the infrastructure, equipment
and skills base anticipated at appraisal are now in place; (b) the project has contributed to
an increase in raw silk production of 4,191 tons from 8,528 tons in 1988/89 to 12,719
tons by the end of 1996, which although substantially less than anticipated at appraisal
(increasing from 9,220 tons to 17,140 tons) nonetheless represents a significant increase



4
particularly since international prices were less than half those projected at appraisal; and
(c) the project has also contributed very substantially to employment associated with the
increased raw silk production, of about 500,000 full-time workers most of whom are
women (compared to 518,000 estimated at appraisal). Welfare has visibly improved in
sericulture villages. The main shortcoming has been the failure of the project to bring
about a significant increase in the production of the commercial bivoltine hybrid cocoons
that were considered essential to improve the quality of Indian silk.
Commercial Seed (F1) Grainages
8.        At the beginning of the project, the production of commercial seed mostly
took place in public sector grainages that lacked consistent standards of quality and
disease control and failed to recover their operating costs. Owing to substantial delays in
civil works and procurement, little improvement had occurred by 1991/92 when the
incidence of pebrine increased alarmingly. The resulting crop losses were a cause of the
mass uprooting of mulberry that occurred throughout the traditional silk producing states.
This negated the horizontal expansion of sericulture brought about through the project and
consequently depressed demand for silkworm eggs, especially in Tamil Nadu. However,
with the completion of project implementation, most of the public sector grainages are
now producing seed of an acceptable quality and some of those operated by the CSB,
Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have generated profits. Although there remain concerns
about poor capacity utilization and consequently high overhead and staff expenses, it
seems clear that sufficient infrastructure and trained staff are now in place to facilitate a
substantial increase in production and distribution of better quality silkworm seed during
the operational phase of the project.
9.        The establishment through the project of private sector grainages (licensed
seed producers [LSPs]) appears to have been very successful: for example, there are more
than 900 LSPs in Karnataka and at least 200 in West Bengal alone. In fact, because of the
large number of LSPs it is probable that total seed production and distribution has been
significantly under-recorded,   The mission estimates that the total annual seed
consumption is currently about 360 million disease-free layings (dfls), with license seed
LSPs accounting for about 70% of the production and distribution of commercial
crossbreed seed.
Basic Seed Farms
10.      During the early years of the project, little progress was made towards the
establishment of new basic seed farms and the strengthening of existing farms, and the
procedures for seed selection and disease control remained unsatisfactory. The massive
pebrine outbreak of 1991/92 seemed to have stemmed mostly from these basic seed farms
and demonstrated the urgent need to improve the physical infrastructure and operating
standards at P3 and P2 farms, to prevent transovarian infection. By 1994 significant
improvements had occurred at the basic seed farms but the quality of P1 seed cocoons
produced by farmers in the designated seed areas was poor. Subsequently, further
improvements in the quality of basic seed were achieved through (a) the CSB's decision to



5
entrust the breeders with basic stock (P4) maintenance to ensure regular infusion of fresh
material; (b) the adoption of improved stock selection procedures focused on survival
characteristics and stabilization of race cocoon characteristics; and (c) the introduction of
systematic selection procedures based on multiple selection indices. Although there
remain concerns over capacity utilization and coordinated disease monitoring (with
pebrine recently reported in West Bengal), it is clear that the project has led to a
significant upgrading of basic seed production.
Technical Service Centers and Extension
11.       Technical Service Centers (TSCs) are the basic units for sericulture extension
in India and extension, directly or indirectly, accounts for about 80%  of the state
Departments of Sericulture costs. By 1993/94 most of the necessary infrastructure,
extension staff and transport envisaged at appraisal were in place, but the effectiveness of
extension and training appeared to be marginal. Substantial improvements in extension
management were then brought about in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu through the
installation of a management information system (MIS) to assist effective monitoring at
the TSC, district and state headquarters levels. Extension methods such as organization of
farmers' discussion groups, the lead farmer concept, credit workshops and productivity
clubs for both on-farm and off-farm activities were widely adopted by 1995. Other
positive developments included increased use of organic manure, disinfectants, drip
irrigation, platform rearing and distribution of loose eggs. Farmer-to-farmer extension
was an important feature that emerged during the project period. But these developments
have not yet produced a generalized extension focus on upgrading productivity and
quality, rather than expansion of mulberry area. During the project, about 133,000 ha of
mulberry were planted but 109,000 ha were uprooted, so the modest net increase of
24,000 ha was obtained at considerable expense. The completion review estimates that
the national average cocoon productivity has increased from about 400 kg / ha in 1988/89
to more than 500 kg / ha in 1996. Given the rather unsuccessful extension emphasis on
horizontal growth, it seems unlikely that the improvements in productivity can be wholly
attributed to the extension services.
Post-Cocoon Interventions
12.          The cocoon market infrastructure so far established has facilitated better
marketing and increased market transparency and is sustainable through collection of
market fees.  A  notable change generated through project intervention included
introduction of a free market system in Kashmir to enable private buyers, including those
from other states to purchase silk cocoons in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Similarly, silk
exchanges and testing houses planned at appraisal have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily.
Research and Development
13.          At the national level, the project financed the expansion and strengthening
of three National Research Institutes and 13 supporting Regional Sericulture Stations; the



6
construction and operation of the Silkworm and Mulberry Germplasm Station, Hosur, and
the Silkworm Seed Technology Laboratory, Kodathi; and the establishment of the
Seribiotech Laboratory, Bangalore.  At the state level, the project has financed
improvements and strengthening of the Karnataka State Sericulture Development Institute
established under the KSP-I project, and the establishment of a similar new institute for
Andhra Pradesh. Significant slippage and cost overrun have occurred, but sufficient
infrastructure including equipment is now in place to support the research needs of the
sub-sector for at least the next five to ten years.
14.      Few new improved mulberry varieties or silkworm races were generated and
made available for commercial use by farmers during implementation of the project, but
the process of selection and on-farm validation has been accelerated since 1994 and
promising stocks are expected to become widely available by 1998. At present, however,
even improved varieties developed prior to the implementation of the NSP are slow to
reach the farmers. Mulberry varieties for rainfed (S13 and S34) and irrigated (S36 and
S54) conditions were approved in 1991 but covered less than 1,000 ha. Similarly, thirteen
silkworm races authorized in 1995/96 have yet to be widely intended and adopted by the
states.
15.      An important event attributable to the project but not planned at appraisal was
the launching of the external Research Review in 1994. This is bringing about a long
overdue re-orientation of the research system, focusing on the need to ensure that projects
are relevant to the problems of the sub-sector and are properly coordinated to avoid
duplication. In particular, there now appears to be increased awareness amongst research
staff of the urgent need to undertake demand-driven multi-disciplinary studies. They have
also become aware of the need to adopt experimental designs amenable to multivariate
analysis of the factors associated with the wide variations in performance between agro-
ecological zones and among farmers within these zones.
Production of Bivoltine Silk
16.       The production of about 1,000 tons per annum of bivoltine raw silk was
envisaged at appraisal as a key factor for improving the quality of Indian silk. But as early
as September 1989, detailed discussions with farmers, grainages, DOS staff and reelers
revealed that there were doubts that the bivoltine targets were realistic. Thereafter,
progress with commercial bivoltine sericulture remained unsatisfactory and bivoltine
cocoon production remained orientated towards the seed cocoons that are essential for the
synthesis of commercial F 1 bivoltine x polyvoltine crossbreed silkworm eggs. At the end
of project implementation, the annual production of bivoltine silk was about 400 tons and
a substantial proportion of this was from discarded seed cocoons which lack the genetic
characteristics required for econornic reeling on multi-end basin filatures. Notwithstanding
the possible introduction of improved commercial bivoltine hybrids during the next year or
so, it is apparent that there is little prospect of attaining the SAR target even within the
next five years.



7
Pilot States Program
17.       The project made provision for the creation of basic infrastructure for
bivoltine sericulture in 23 selected districts of twelve pilot states. Although meteorological
data were taken into account when selecting the districts, it became apparent in early 1991
that many areas where mulberry was being promoted were unsuitable and had been
selected on socio-economic rather than agro-climatic grounds. There were also problems
with secondment of DOS staff to CSB, land availability for infrastructure development,
lack of credit and conflicting state programs that were inconsistent with NSP in respect of
subsidies and other production incentives. As a result, of the 8,600 ha planted with
mulberry during the project, about 6,000 ha (almost 70%) were uprooted. Reported
cocoon production at the end of project implementation was also less than 170 tons, of
which only about 50 tons were commercial bivoltine hybrid cocoons. Despite this poor
outcome, the project has established that selected districts in Kerala and Uttar Pradesh are
suitable for bivoltine sericulture and has provided good indications of sustainable growth.
18.       Social Dimensions.  The project espoused enhancing women's role in
sericulture development and engagement of NGOs, and has had to deal with the issue of
child labor in the sericulture industry.
(a)  Participation of Women. The project has promoted several measures
aimed at enhancing the role of women in sericulture development
including training, study tours, promotion of access to institutional
credit, participation in marketing, and deployment of senior and field
level women officers and extension personnel. These interventions have
resulted in an increased awareness of income-generating opportunities
from sericulture amongst rural women in a number of project localities;
enhanced skills, enabling the women to adopt improved techniques and
so obtain higher cocoon yields and better quality; and attitudinal changes
amongst personnel of the States' Departments of Sericulture, who now
recognize the need for and value of concerted efforts to increase access
by women to production resources and support services. However,
these interventions have so far affected only a small proportion of the
women in the project area and there is a need to sustain and expand
these programs during the operational phase of the project.
(b)  NGOs. Provision was made under the project to engage NGOs with the
possibility to use their services for a wide range of activities including
promoting participation of women, landless and other underprivileged
groups in sericulture; obtaining access to cultivable wasteland for
mulberry cultivation; organizing groups to adopt improved rearing
equipment; and other improved production practices and processing
activities. This component was administered by CSB with the assistance
of a central coordination committee composed of representative officers
of CSB and the participating states. In all, the services of a large
number of NGOs (125) were used during the project period, at an



8
estimated total expenditure of about Rs. 31 million (until end December
1996). Activities such as group formation, mobilization for mulberry
production and training in self-help have been successfully undertaken
by some of the NGOs. However, their achievements in technical
sericultural activities have been less than satisfactory due to the lack of
technical expertise and practical experience in silkworm rearing, cocoon
production, reeling and other processing techniques.
(c)  Child Labor. As sericulture activities were to be carried out under local
laws, labor issues, including child labor, were not identified for special
attention during preparation and appraisal. However, starting in 1992,
review missions recognized it as an important issue and addressed it as
both an equity/poverty issue and as a threat to India's export potential.
The Bank, in discussion with government, initiated a study in December
1992 to review the extent of the problem in Karnataka. The study was
able to identify the scale and broad types of child labor and the fact that
most of it was not 'bonded' in the same way as in some other industries.
It identified the types of work undertaken and the hazards and made
recommendations.   Some progress has been  achieved  towards
eliminating exploitative child labor from the post-cocoon sector by
enlisting the cooperation of reelers, twisters and weavers through the
active involvement of productivity clubs and trade associations. There
was also a move towards some technology changes including motorized
charka-turning. Reelers who employed children in Karnataka and
Andhra Pradesh were threatened with non-renewal of licences. This
proved quite effective, particularly in Andhra Pradesh. Publicity about
the issue was given in the local languages. Work was initiated with
several NGOs. However, it was found difficult to address the problem
comprehensively as a retrofit strategy within a project that had not been
designed to address the issue at the outset. Furthermore, as the studies
identified, much of the child labor in the industry as a whole occurs
within the home. Arising partly from the Sericulture Project experience,
the South Asia Region is developing a strategy to address the issue of
child labor more coherently.
Institutional Credit
19.       Institutional credit requirements estimated at US$104 million during appraisal
were not financed under the project.  These were to be met by commercial and
cooperative banks from their sources under refinancing arrangements with
NABARD/IDBI. The amount of credit disbursed by commercial and cooperative banks in
support of the project was in accord with appraisal expectations. However, it was not
possible to assess the recovery rates of sericulture credit because records of the on-farm
loans are classified by the banks as general agricultural loans and no disaggregated data
are available. One successful innovation initiated by the Bank was the introduction of the
direct mail campaign for bankers to promote banking services to the poverty target group.



9
Economic Rate of Return
20.      The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project at completion has been
estimated at 14%, compared to 32% at appraisal. The major reason for the lower ERR is
the drop in international prices of silk. At appraisal the international price of raw bivoltine
silk was estimated at US$59/kg. This is equivalent to US$72.6/kg in late 1996 prices.
Actual prices prevailing in late 1996 were US$32/kg. Lower prices and pebrine disease
also effected the competitiveness of silk production and, as a result, increase in mulberry
area was less than anticipated. Total mulberry area in 1996/97 reached 243,200 ha
compared to the SAR target of 400,000 ha.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
Project Costs
21.       Actual project costs in Rupees and US Dollars are shown in Appendix B,
Tables 1-3.  Total project costs were estimated at Rs.7,014.5 million compared to
Rs.5,548.7 million estimated at appraisal. However, due to the sharp decline in the
exchange rate of the Rupee, US Dollar costs were significantly less than anticipated at
appraisal - US$248.5 million compared to US$347.1 million.
Project Financing and Disbursement of Credit
22.       The original IDA Credit of SDR1 13.8 million (equivalent of US$147 million)
and IBRD Loan of US$30 million was to cover about 50.2% of total project cost of
US$347.1 million. SDC's contribution was expected at US$25 million or 7.2%, with the
balance of the cost being financed by the credit institutions (30.8%) and GOI/GOS
(11.8%). The entire Loan of US$30 million and SDR31.5 million of the Credit was
cancelled. Of the re-estimated project cost of US$248.5 million, the Credit financed about
46%. The final disbursement was made at close of business on June 12, 1997 (Table 4).
SDC contributed US$17.4 million (7%), credit institutions US$64.4 million (26%), and
GOVIGOS around US$52.3 million (21%) (Table 8B).
External Factors Affecting Implementation
23.      In 1991 there began a serious outbreak of the silkworm disease pebrine,
originating from the public sector basic seed farms and grainages which caused many
farmers to suffer large crop losses and which took more than two years to bring under
control. Although the prices of cocoons and raw silk initially increased rapidly in response
to shortages, farmers were unable or unwilling to risk further losses and widespread
uprooting of mulberry took place, especially in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and
Karnataka. Had it not been for the delays in implementing the silkworm seed supply
components of the project, the CSB and state DOSs would have been able to prevent or at
least quickly contain the spread of the disease. Nevertheless, given that pebrine is
generally endemic to India, it seems appropriate to regard this incident as an external
factor affecting implementation.



10
24.      In early 1992, the price of Chinese raw silk in the international and Bangalore
markets fell by about 25%. When prices began to drift upwards again in late 1993, the
China National Silk Import and Export Corporation, supported by 31 exporting
companies, imposed a cap on Chinese raw silk prices and set the maximum price at about
US$23 / kg in March 1994. This was designed to ensure the stable and low raw material
prices needed to encourage continued growth of China's exports of silk garments, which
accounted for 70 percent of all silk exports from China. Thus the international raw silk
price assumed at appraisal (US$59/kg) was not sustained beyond 1991/92 and, as a result,
the initial period of rapid inflation of domestic cocoon prices was followed by a sharp
reversal to around the pre-project price levels.
25.       As a result of these external factors, project implementation took place against
a background of reductions in mulberry area and sericultural activity, and stagnation or
reduction of raw silk output.
Factors Subject to Government Control
26.       Factors subject to the control of the Government and implementing agencies
which affected project implementation include failure to amend legislation to enable public
sector grainages to recover full costs and failure to achieve full cost recovery, respectively.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.       The key achievements of the project are likely to be sustained in the
operational phase. However, the following will be the major challenges. The total
number of Central and State-level staff positions associated with sericulture is anticipated
to remain at a very high level. Maintaining this level of commitment is likely to place a
considerable strain on the public sector resources, and consideration should be given to
measures aimed at progressively devolving this responsibility to the private sector. This
issue was stressed by the Mid-Term Review (MTR) but apparently remains to be
addressed by the concerned agencies. The Government has expressed its commitment to
continue to support the sub-sector through additional investments under the Ninth Five-
Year Plan but details have not yet been published.
28.       The increased production of raw silk during the project period has been
achieved through improved productivity per unit area. This is a more appropriate and
sustainable approach than the horizontal expansion of mulberry area envisaged at
appraisal. There remains considerable scope for further improvements in productivity in
all the silk production sub-systems but especially in mulberry production, silkworm rearing
and cocoon production, and in reeling. One of the reasons for the comparatively low
productivity of mulberry in India, even under irrigated conditions, is that the potential of
the existing varieties is not being achieved because most soils are deficient in organic
matter. During its operational phase, the project's sustainability can be achieved through
sustained improvements in productivity by giving higher priority for increased productivity
under rainfed conditions and better management of soil and water resources under



11
irrigated conditions, i.e. through promotion of green manuring, mulching and low-cost
micro-irrigation.
29.       With regards to cocoon production, the average cocoon yield and quality are
still significantly less than is required for a competitive and modern sericulture industry.
This low productivity depresses farm incomes, inflates cocoon prices and constrains the
development of an efficient reeling sub-system. Few analysts believe that the international
price of raw silk will increase substantially above the rate of inflation during the next five
to ten years. If the assumption of a significant shift in domestic demand towards bivoltine
raw silk is confirmed, then the economic sustainability of the Indian sericulture sub-sector
will be dependent upon securing better returns to farmers despite significantly lower
prices. This can be achieved through significant, but readily attainable, improvements in
sericultural productivity. However, attaining these improvements will most likely require
Indian farmers to become more specialized and to make larger capital investments in
improved rearing houses and equipment. Opportunities for under-capitalized, part-time
farmers to obtain good incomes from sericulture will become limited. Therefore it may be
predicted that the project will sustain improvements in productivity and employment, but
that the income-generating opportunities from sericulture may shift away from returns to
household labor in marginal smallholdings and towards wage labor for specialized silk
farms.
30.      The demand for fuelwood needed for cocoon drying, cooking and reeling gives
rise to environmental concern. Whilst mulberry twigs and branches are themselves useful
and significant fuel sources for household consumption, there is a need to reduce fuel
demand through continued research into more efficient stoves at the reeling units. A
private sector research institute has recently completed field testing of prototype gasifier-
based ovens which demonstrated a 42% fuel saving over the conventional cottage basin
ovens. Successful promotion and adoption of this or similar technology will enhance the
environmental sustainability of post-cocoon operations.
E. BANK AND CO-FINANCIER PERFORMANCE
31.       Project Identification was undertaken within the context of the then ongoing
KSP-I. Review missions had drawn attention to the deficiencies of the KSP-I design and
implementation in terms of the unsatisfactory performance of the bivoltine sericulture
component and the failure to turn around the loss-making parastatal operations. Despite
this, the design of NSP mostly replicated the objectives and methodology of KSP-I. A
fresh analysis of the opportunities and constraints affecting the sub-sector might have
enhanced the design of NSP and thus the Bank's role in identification was marginally
satisfactory.
32.       Project Preparation was compromised by the absence of base-line technical,
marketing and socio-economic surveys, and the studies introduced into the project design
at the suggestion of the co-financier were obviously meant to correct this deficiency. The
project working papers lacked a clear presentation of technical and financial coefficients,



12
and comprehensive models of the various enterprises were not prepared for a thorough
appraisal of the financial and economic opportunities that would be made available to the
proposed private sector participants. In this respect Bank's performance was deficient.
33.       Project Appraisal. There was a need to establish a clear relationship between
explicit objectives, expressed in an objectively verifiable form, and (a) the project
components and activities that must be completed in order to achieve those objectives; (b)
the key indicators and monitoring instruments used to determine the project's status and
progress towards achieving the objectives. It was not clear from the SAR how the
numerous components were meant to address the priority concerns of the sub-sector or of
any target beneficiaries. Neither was it obvious how the activities undertaken within each
component constitute the most effective and efficient ways of achieving the objectives.
These fundamental design flaws should have been detected and corrected at appraisal.
34.       The project component concerning the twelve pilot states was proposed by the
Borrower at a late stage of project preparation. Despite their reservations, the Bank and
the co-financier accepted the inclusion of this component. With the benefit of hindsight, it
is obvious that the operations in the pilot states should have been planned in greater detail
before incorporation into the project design. The appraisal mission also treated the
bivoltine silk production component with similar lack of clarity and decision, by simply
requesting the CSB to draw up an action plan. Likewise, insufficient critical assessment
was made of the implication of duplicating production infrastructure and service functions
at the CSB and state DOSs, whilst at the same time charging these institutions with
responsibility for increasing private sector involvement. The Borrower was also burdened
with monitoring and reporting an excessive number of legal covenants which could have
been dealt with by a memorandum at negotiations. Unless the covenants focus clearly on
substantive issues they are unlikely to be properly addressed by either the Borrower or the
financiers, and this proved to be the case under NSP. On balance, however, the Bank's
performance on appraisal was satisfactory.
Project Supervision
35.       As a rule, supervision missions were carried out twice a year and staff
continuity by both the Bank and the co-financier was exceptionally good. Quality of the
supervision reports was consistently good (One Bank region used them as a Best Practice
example). These missions were generally over-optimistic in their ratings of project
performance.  Although the supervision missions produced sound and important
recommendations, there was no satisfactory follow-up in several instances. Overall, the
Bank and co-financier's performance in supervision was satisfactory.
36.       The MTR in early 1993 addressed a number of issues which did not
automatically derive from the SAR and the project design. In particular, the massive staff
expansion of both the CSB and the DOS, with the associated problems of organizational
development and avoidance of duplication of functions, was addressed for the first time.
The problem of child labor in the sub-sector was highlighted and put on an agenda for
immediate action. The constraints to implementation of the pilot states program were



13
analyzed and a substantial downwards revision of the mulberry area targets was
recommended. The MTR concluded that the project needed to be refocused. Although no
substantive financial reallocations were proposed at that time, final clearance of the MTR
Aide-Memoire and supporting technical working papers took more than six months, by
which time the implementing agencies' attention was no longer focused on the need to
bring about significant reorientation of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Project Preparation
37.      Initial project preparation by the Borrower was deficient despite the local
consultancy assistance. It was inadequate in respect of technical and economic criteria,
and data on mulberry area, expansion, and the bivoltine and pilot states programs.
Project Implementation
38.      Project implementation was hampered by administrative delays. Some of the
delays were caused by unforeseen problems over land availability for civil works and
difficulties with procurement. Inspite of these, overall implementation by the Borrower
was satisfactory.
39.      The Borrower's response to review mission recommendations and requests for
compliance with legal covenants was variable, but weak when studies and action plans
with a high analytical content were required.  Monitoring and evaluation of key
sericultural indicators was generally unsatisfactory throughout the project period.
Substantial revision of the estimates were done in December 1996 on the basis of a
workshop consensus rather than data obtained from field studies undertaken earlier.
Responsiveness to gender and social issues was initially good, but appeared to ebb away
after 1994. For example, the concept of the Year of Women in Sericulture was proposed
to the funding agencies by the Borrower and was supported through the project in 1993-
94, but was not completed until 1996. Similarly, the problem of child labor was effectively
addressed by Andhra Pradesh through the threat of non-renewal of reeler's licenses,
although this approach is not without its own negative social and financial impacts on the
children and their families. Elsewhere, however, this problem is apparently perceived as
being beyond the sphere of effective influence of the implementing agencies.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.       Although raw silk production has not increased to the level estimated at
appraisal, the significant increase that has occurred was achieved through higher
productivity per unit area and unit labor, not as a consequence of the anticipated
expansion of mulberry area. Substantial scope remains for further improvements in
productivity, which is still lower in India than in China or Thailand. However, the
problems of food security for an expanding population, reduced water availability and
increased competition for irrigated land will limit opportunities for increasing the area



14
under mulberry. Therefore it is clear that the improvement in productivity achieved during
the project period is a more appropriate and sustainable approach than the expansion of
mulberry area particularly in traditional silk-producing states as envisaged at appraisal.
The precise extent to which this improvement can be attributed solely to the project is
difficult to determine, owing to the absence of baseline and systematic benchmark studies,
but the ICR mission's field investigations and anecdotal evidence suggested that the
project has been a major factor for this change. In addition, the project made a significant
contribution to employment and to the involvement of women and NGOs in the
development process. Therefore, overall assessment of outcome is rated as satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Description of Plan
41.       The CSB and the participating States have expressed their commitment to
continue providing support for further expansion and improvement of the sector. The
potential that could be achieved through greater use of the production infrastructure
developed through the project, and approaches which need to be followed to upgrade
quality and enhance value addition in the post-cocoon subsector, have already been
defined by a group of experts at the national level set up to formulate development
proposals outlined for the Ninth Five-Year Plan period. The key elements of the
proposals outlined for future operations emphasize the Government plans to ensure
availability and use of quality inputs, better facilities for processing, design and product
development and further research support. The main silk-producing states primarily
Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have also prepared their plans
to consolidate the gains obtained, and continue the initiatives taken through NSP. These
state plans envisage that the focus of their future operations would be on higher
productivity and product quality, increased involvement of private sector in silkworm seed
production, additional  programs to enhance the role of women in sericulture,
strengthening of the Technical Service Centers and cocoon market infrastructure
established under the project, and increased attention to improve post-cocoon sector
42.      The co-financier has agreed to continue to provide support to the Indian silk
sub-sector for the period 1997-2002, through the SERI 2000 project. This project will
not be a continuation of the NSP or of the bilateral projects which have been implemented
by the CSB and the state DOSs. The developmental objective will be to generate
employment and sustainable income opportunities primarily for the weaker sections of the
population, including women, in rural and semi-urban areas. The program will adopt a
demand-side approach with the objective of removing the constraints to increased
productivity, improved quality and sustainability, especially in the post-cocoon operations.
In operational terms, at least 50% of the total project financial resources will be allocated
to private sector programs for support services (including research, extension and
training) and input supplies.



15
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The main lessons learned from the project experience include:
(a)   Future Operations. In the traditional silk producing States, a more cost-
effective way of increasing and sustaining raw silk production would be
through raising productivity. In the States with potential for producing
bivoltine silk', expansion of mulberry area should receive greater attention
combined with efforts to improve quality.
(b)   Project Design and Appraisal. The less than satisfactory performance of
some sub-components (e.g. bivoltine production / pilot States program) of
the project confirms the need for (i) greater involvement of stakeholders in
all stages of project formulation and implementation to enhance ownership;
and (ii) the availability of on-farm validated technologies to be promoted,
to ensure setting of achievable production targets.
(c)   Project Implementation and Supervision. There have been considerable
delays in procurement and implementation of infrastructure components.
To minimize such delays in future, the Bank and the Borrower should
ensure that detailed equipment list and relevant designs, appropriate
contract packages and tender documents are completed prior to
Negotiations. Whilst the supervision missions identified and recommended
measures to address key constraints, lack of prompt follow-up minimized
their effectiveness. The project would have benefited considerably by
having a concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system through a
third part agency which would provide both qualitative and quantitative
feed-back to project management based on project progress and
implementation experience.
(d)   Extension.  The project emphasis was on strengthening the existing
sericulture extension system and its approach. The project experience has
shown that the most effective extension agent is the progressive and
successful farmer. Greater emphasis should therefore have been placed
upon promoting farmer-to-farmer transfer of technologies.
(e)   Research. In addition to provision of infrastructure and equipment for
research and development, it is necessary to provide project support (i) for
improving/strengthening human resources for research management, and
(ii) for the establishment of performance-related career structures. - To
maximize returns on investment in research infrastructure, it is necessary to
pay greater attention to develop demand-driven research projects and
timely deployment of research personnel.
e.g. in UP and Kerala.



16
(f)    NGOs. It is important to ensure that technical capabilities of participating
NGOs are thoroughly assessed at appraisal. Adequate provision should be
made in the project for imparting requisite training to such NGOs prior to
their deployment.
(g)    Social Assessment.  The project experiences reinforced the need for
conducting social assessment prior to appraisal to identify issues such as
child labor and develop appropriate strategy to address the relevant issues.



17
PART IH. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement ofobjectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(V)          (V)          V)           (V)
Macro policies                      nI               lI
Sector policies                     El            Li           El            El
Financial objectives                FJ           Eli           El            Fl
Institutional development           Fl                         El            El
Physical objectives .                El          E1            El            E
Poverty reduction                     3l                       El            El
Gender issues                        [l                        El            El
Other social objectives              El           El           El           FII
Environmental objectives             El          El            El           Fl
Public sector management            El           [f3           ED            El
Private sector development           El          El            FI           F
Other (Human Resources
Development)                             W            E          D
B. Project sustainabilty             Likel        Unlikely    Unceti
(/)          (/)            )
High                    Marginally
C. Bank performance                 satisactor    Satisfactory  Satusfactory Deficient
(/)    (/)         (/~~~)     (V)
Identification                     O           E            EI 
Preparation assistance            E            E            El          E]
Appraisal                         El          El            El          El
Supervision                       El          Li]           El          El



18
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                  EI          EC 
Covenant compliance                                        ] E  F
Operation (if applicable)       El          E]           E]
Highly                                      H
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfacton   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactony  unsatisfactory
:~~



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                             Purpose                        Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Karnataka Sericulture Project  To (a) increase raw silk production in Karnataka; (b)  1980     Completed
(Cr. 1034-IN)                   introduce modem processing facilities and methods which
would upgrade raw and spun silk to export quality; and (c)     IC1isue
introduce the latest technologies from leading silk producing   3/11/91
countries and expand local research for longer-term
improvement of the industry.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               |     Date planned                Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                      April 1, 1984
Preparation                                                      -              December 1987
Appraisal                                              September 1, 1988        October-November 1988
Negotiations                                           February 15, 1989        April 3-7, 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)           NA                       NA
Board presentation                                     March 28, 1989           May 18, 1989
Signing                                                          -              June 16, 1989
Effectiveness                                                                   Septembeir 14, 1989
First tranche release (if applicable)                  NA                       NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                  Jan 11 to Feb. 24, 1993
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)     NA                       NA
Project completion                                      NA                      June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                           December 31, 1996        December 31, 1996



20
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
IBRD/IDA FY                  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate
Semesterl                    0.0    10.6    31.9   56.7    81.5   115.1   150.5   177.0
Semester II                   3.5    19.5   44.3    69.1    99.1   129.2   177.0
Actual
Semester 1                   13.6    14.6    19.1   44.7   60.8    81.2    99.8   105.3
Semester II                  13.6    19.1    38.6   57.8   75.3    94.4   105.3  114.3*
Actual as % of Estimate
Semester l                            151      66      87      74      71      56      60
Semester 11                           108     93       84      76      73      60      64
Final Disbursement; June 12. 1997



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Performance Indicators                  CFY                         End of Project
Target    Actual        %       Target     Actal  |
1. Commercial Seed Production                                                   Since the
(DFLS-Lakhs)                                                         targets are
a. Public Sector:                        262          45         17       409  annual by
i) Bivoltine hybrid                1220         445         37       3193  the end of
ii) Crossbreed                                                             the project,
b. Private Sector:                         2           0         0         10  cumulative
i) Bivoltine hybrid                2606          899        34      2628  achievements
ii) Crossbreed                     4090         1389        34      6240  are not
Total Seed Production                                                           indicated
2. Cocoon Production: (MT)/Yr                                                   for even
i) Bivoltine hybrid                5825         1415        24      9193  products at
ii) Crossbreed                   140784       41850         30    147911  serial no. I
Total Cocoon Production               146609       43266        30    157104  to 2.
3. Raw Silk Production:(MT)/Yr
i) Bivoltine                        630          160        25       976
ii) Crossbred                     14761        4764         32      14899
Total Raw Silk Production              15391        4924        32      15875    Actual       %
4. Mulberry Planted:
a. Irrigated (Ac)                      31873        6374        20    113465      309536
b. Rainfed (Ac)                         5210        1013         19     20141      28581
Total Mulberrry acreage           37083         7386        20    154106      338116
c. Uprooted
d. Net standing acreage                                                           207113
5. New Rearers (Nos.)
i) Women                           5837         978         17     25439       49910
ii) Men                           26327        7869         30    109975      525010
TOTAL                                  32164        8847        28    135414      574950
6. New Reelers (Nos.)
i) Women                             55           2          4       810         449
ii) Men                             473          30          6       1887      16666
TOTAL                                    528          40         8       2757       18159
7. Mulberry Saplings
i) Extent of Kisan Nurseries        690          182        26      2800        2640
ii) No of saplings raised in Kisan  597          162        27      1289        2587
Nursury (lakhs)
iii) Govt. Nurseries                 35           4         11        113        126
Total No. of saps supplied to farmers    432         104        24       1865        1951
(Iscs)
8. Technical Service Center (TSC)
i) No. of TSCs                                                       450         442       98
ii) Women farmers trained         18806        7354         39    124595      144627      116
iii) Men farmers trained          14575        3053         21    110521       88076       80
Total farmers trained                  33381       10407        31    235116      238730       102
9. Credit
No. of rearers covered
i) women                           1445          160        11      18764      14770       79
ii) men                           14130        2909         21    109208      144149      132
TOTAL                                  15575        3069        20    142972       160423      112
No. of reelers covered
i) women                             55           0          0       869         300       35
ii) men                             470          173        37      2690        5059      189
TOTAL                                    525         173        37       3559       5359       151
10. Technical Assistance
i) Consultancies (person-months)      0           0          0        136         74       54
ii) Training/study tours              0           0          0       963         849       88
(person-months)
11. Ass. to NGOs/Women Groups
i) NGO projects approved (nos.)       0           0         0       none         125
ii) Women groups assisted (nos.)      0           4                 none          53
12. BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT
i) No. of reports generated           3            I                none          86
13. SOCIOECONOMIC SURVEY
i) No. of states covered              2           2        100        17          17      100
* Data for A.P. is up to June 1996. Other data are at end of September 1996.



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined           Status              Impact of study
1. Beneficiary           To gauge beneficiary values,   More than 60 BA studies  Most had qualitative
Assessment (BA) Surveys   preferences and reactions and   were undertaken.     focus. Their relationship
(SAR - para 3.42)         provide feedback reports                             and usefulness
monitoring and
evaluation were not
satisfactory.
2. Socio-economic         To assess in quantitative   They were not            NIL
surveys in each of the   terms the project impact.    undertaken as planned in
participatory states in 3                             the early project stage
stages (SAR para 3.44).                               and repeating twice.



23
Table 8A: Project Costs
(Rs million)
Component                      SAR-Project        Additions    Total approved        Actual   Overrun/(Saving)
Total including    approved until       limits      Expenditure
contingencies           date
1. Research & Development           429.3            586.0          1,015.3           878.4           (136.9)
2. Universities support               59.2            12.0             71.2            63.2             (8.0)
3. Basic seed production             513.5           232.9            746.3           820.4              74.0
4. Seed grainages                    707.8           402.6          1,110.5           903.8           (206.7)
5. Seed CRC's (DOS)                  46.2             19.3             65.5            44.5            (21.0)
6. Assistance to pvt. CRCs          202.3            (76.4)           125.9            46.4            (79.5)
7. Mulberry saplings                  45.8            51.0             96.8            54.2            (42.6)
8. Cocoon markets                   204.1             38.8            242.9           182.3            (60.6)
9. Cocoon drying                     48.9           (21.6)             27.3             4.7            (22.6)
10. Silk exchange                     9.9              9.0            18.9             14.1             (4.8)
11. Silk testing houses             140.0            (8.8)            131.3            86.4            (44.9)
12. Training Centers                419.4            225.6           645.0            404.0           (241.0)
13. TSCs                            604.1            171.9           776.0            766.9             (9.0)
14. Joint venture participation      29.5           (14.9)             14.5             3.0            (11.6)
15. CSB/DOS administration          281.9            220.3           502.2            627.9            125.7
16. Asst. to NGOs                    50.2              6.9            57.1             31.4            (25.7)
17. Promotion of new ovens            9.4            (2.1)             7.3              9.7              2.4
18. Asst. to reelers                 71.9            (0.7)            71.2             62.1             (9.1)
19. Beneficiary Assessment           17.5              5.0            22.5             19.1             (3.4)
20. Socio-economic surveys            6.7                              6.7              6.2             (0.5)
21. Growth centers/CFCs/etc.                         121.0            121.0            53.4            (67.7)
TOTAL                        3,897.7          1,977.8         5,875.5          5,082.0          (793.6)
Credit
-On farm                      1,016.7                          1,016.7          1,425.5           408.8
- Processing                   634.3                            634.4            507.0           (127.3)
Subtotal                      1,651.0                          1,651.0         1,932.5            281.5
Total Project Costs                5,548.7          1,977.8         7,526.6          7,014.5          (512.1)
Note: Expenditures include actual expenditures until December 31, 1996 and estimated expenditures until April 30, 1997, except for
Jammu & Kashmir, for which data are until December 31, 1996 only.



24
Table SB: Project Financing
Source                          Appraisal Estimate              Actual Estimate
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
IBRD/IDA                               177.0                            114.4
Co-financing Institutions               25.0                            17.4
(SDC)
Other sources                          -------
Credit Institutions                    104.0                            64.4
Domestic contribution                   41.0                            52.3
GOI/States
Total                                  347.0                           248.5



25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate      ICR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return                   32%                    14%
Major Assumptions
Project life
Standard Conversion Factor                 0.8                    0.9
International Price for Raw Silk  US$59.00 (1989 Prices)
US$72.60 (1996 prices)      US$32.00
Project Life                             20 years               20 years
Physical Factors
Increase in Raw Silk Production         8,140 tons             4,190 tons
Increase in Raw Silk Yields              3 kgs/ha              2.2 kgs/ha
Financial Results
Incremental Gross Margins
(0.4 ha Farm, 1996 prices)
Karnataka (Irrigated)                 Rs18,000               Rs21,500
Andhra Pradesh (Irrigated)            Rs'14,100               Rs7, 100
Tamil Nadu (Rainfed)                   Rs2,400               Rs4, 100
West Bengal (Rainfed)                 RsI4,500                Rs6,400
Jammu and Kashmir (Rainfed)            Rs4,600                Rs500
Project Costs
In Current Rupees                     Rs5,548.7 mill.        Rs7,014.5 mill.
In Current US Dollars                 US$347.1 mill.         US$248.5 mili.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreemenat      Covenant   Present   Original       Revised       Description of Covenant                         Comments
Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
DCA             I           C                                     The Borrower shall (a) have records & accounts for   In compliance.
4.0 1(bXi)                                                        each FY audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
DCA             1           C                                     (b) Furnish to the Association, no later than 9  In compliance.
4.01(bXii)                                                        months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy ofthe report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope an din such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
DCA 4.01(cXi)  3            C                                     The Borrower shall: (a) Maintain or cause to be  In compliance.
maintained records and accounts reflecting
expenditures with respect to wrhich withdrawals fom
the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
DCA             1           C                                     (b) Retain, until at least one year after the   In compliance.
4.01(cXii)                                                        Association has receivedthe audit for the FY in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records evidencing such expenditures.
DCA             1           C                                     (c) Enable the Association's representatives to  In compliance.
4.0 l(cXiii)                                                      exanmine such records as mentioned in 4.01 (cXii).
DCA             1           C                                     (d) Ensure SOE records & accts are included in the    In compliance.
4.0l(cXiv)                                                        annual audit referred to in DCA 4.01(b) & thatthe
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
the said auditors that SOE submitted during such FY
can be relied upon to support related withdrawals.
DCA 4.01(d)    I            C                                     The Borrower shall have the Special Account for  In compliance.
each Fiscal Year audited and furnish the auditor's
reports to the Association not later than 6 months
after the end of each FY.
PA 2.05         9           C                                     CSB and the States shall carry out the provisions set   In general, CSB and
out in the Implementation Program set out in the  states are in compliance.
Schedule to this Agreement                      Refer to the following
sections dealing with the
individual provisions of
the Implementation
Program.L
PA4.01a         2           C                                     Each State & CSB shall maintain records &       In compliance.
accounts adequate to monitor and record the
progress of the Project and reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices its operations & financial
condition in respec of the Project
PA4.01(bi)      1           C                                     Each State shall: (a) have its records & accounts for    Audited by the
each FY audited, in accordance with appropriate  Accountant General in all
auditing principles consistently applied, by    states.
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
PA 4.01(bii)    1           NYD                                   (b) Furnish to the Association, not later than 9  Audit Certificate for
months after end of each such year a certified copy  FY1997 (upto December
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such  31, 1996) due only by
scope and in such detail as the Assoc. shall have  December 31, 1997.
reasonably requested



27
Agreement/      Covenant   Present  Original       Revised       Description of Covenant                        Comments
Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
PA 4.01(ci)     1           C                                    CSB shall: (a) have its records, accounts &    Audited by the Auditor
financial statements for each FY audited in    General.
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association
PA 4.01(cii)    I           C                                    (b) Furnish to the Association, not later than 9  In compliance.
months after end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
SCH 01(a) PA   5            C         12/31/89                   States & CSB shall take necessary steps to     In general compliance.
identify and subsequently designate all staff
positions in State Departments of Sericulture and
CSB respectively which are responsible for
carrying out sericulture research.
SCH 01(b) PA   5            C                                    States & CSB shall seek to ensure that all State  In general compliance.
Depts. of Sericulture & CSB staff appointed to
research positions shall ordinarily have a
minimum 3 year tenure in such positions except
staff appointed to positions in breeding research
for min. 5 year term.
SCH 02(a)PA    9            C                                    CSB shall ensure that each university or research   In compliance.
institution receiving funding under this project
shall prepare annually a two-part report
summarizing the main research work undertaken
as well as setting out objectives & budget
programs for next 3 years
SCH 02(b)PA    9            C                                    CSB shall cause AISRCC to review and make      In compliance.
recommendations on the reports referred to in
para.2(a) above and shall fumish to the Assoc. a
copy of the comments and recommendations of
AISRCC..
SCH 03 PA       5           C                                    States (except J&K) & CSB shall submit to the  Plan prepared but
Association a detailed action plan for bivoltine  implementation is
production indicating inter alia yearly targets,  behind schedule.
areas to be selected for bivoltine promotion and
actions to strengthen extension service for
bivoltine.
SCH 04 PA       3           CP                                   The States & CSB shall ensure that funds       Several CSB and state
provided under the project to grainages for    grainages incurred a
permanent working capital shall be retained by  loss. However, many
such grainages and replenished from sales     earned a cash profit,
revenues                                       and to this extent,
therefore, working
capital was retained as
expected.
SCH 05 PA       2           CP                                   The States & CSB shall ensure that public sector    Many grainages are
grainages set seed prices so as to recover full cost  maintaining income and
of production, including operating costs,      expenditure accounts.
depreciation of plant, equipment & other       For some, only receipts
infrastructure and for CSB, its HQ's          and payments accounts
administrative costs.                          are being maintained
which are adjusted to
yield income and
expenditure accounts.



28
Agreemert/      Covenant   Present  Original        Revised       Description of Covenant                          Comments
Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
SCH 06 PA       I                                                 The States & CSB shal maintain income &
expenditure statements showing costs & revenues
of their grainage operations, have such statements
audited by independent auditors & submit audited
accounts to the Assoc. with 9 months after end of
each FY.
SCH 07 PA       9           c                                     The States (except J&K) and CSB shal submiit to   In compliance.
ope Asstoiation an action plan acceptable to the
Association for promotion of private sector               t
grainages and take necessary steps to carry out
such an action plao on a timely basis.
SCH 08a PA      2           CP                                     States (except J&K) implementin Part D of thke  Cost recovery in case of
Project & CSr shall collect a sale price for    saplings varies across
saplings, initiacy to cover at least 50% of the at rseries. Where these
operating costs of production, to be mcreased to    form a part of grainage
recover fif   cost of production by 4/30/94     complexes, the recovery
is poor due ty high
overhead allocation.
The aggregate amouat
involved is however t(o
small for any significant
coneern
SCH 08b PA      2           C         3/31/95                     Jammu & Kashall, b hall co. ect a sale price for    In compliance.
saplings which shall be adequate to recover at
least 50% of the full cost of produceTon by end of
the fioh year of project irmplementation (fiscal
year     mr94-1995).
SCH 08c PA      2           C                                     States & CSB shall submit to the Association a  In compliance.
plan, acceptable to the Associarwon, for sapling
produciton S  distribunw on (sacluding corection of
sales price pursuant to suAmparagraphs 8(a) and
(b) above this Schedule).
SCH 09a PA      12          CP                                    Karnataka shall, by Dec. 31, 1991, and Andhra   A very large proportion
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and CSB      of the CRCs have been
Che, by Dec. 3a , 1989, transfer alu to isting state soa. D ferred to private
owned CRCs (excluding CRCs for seed             rearers. The problem is
production) tO private farmers of groups of     that there is little
private farmers o         C                     demarrd in private
sectorf or these
facilities.
SCH 09b PA      12          CP                                    States & CSB shall ensure that private fapners to    Criteria for trasferee
whom  CRCs are shalsfelred or who are assisted    selection was not
in establishing new CRCs shall saysfy criteria asered to m all cases.
described in the Project Agreement.             This is one of the
reasons for poor
performance of
privatized CRCs.
SCH 09c PA      12          CP        12131/89                    The States and CSB shall furnish to the Assoc.  Developing alternative
financial &: organizational models and proposed  models was attempted.
schemes of assistance on the basis of which    The fmancial viability
assistance will be provided to CRCs under the   for alternatives could
Project                                         not be fuUly assured.
SCH 09d PA      2           CP                                    States & CSB shall (i) take necessary steps to  Many assisted CRCs are
ensure that CRCs shall be capable of being      not financially viable.
financially viable at least by 5th year, of its
operation, and (ii) enter into agreement with
farmers receiving assistance re CRCs, setting out
terms and conditions. 



29
Agreement/     Covenant   Present  Original       Revised       Description of Covenant                       Comments
Section        Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
SCH 09e PA     2           C                                    The States and CSB shall not restrict the selling  In compliance
price that CRCs may charge for sale of chawkis.
SCH 10 PA      2           CP                                   The States & CSB shall ensure that all new    W.B.introduced a levy.
cocoon markets except seed cocoon markets shall   Karnataka & J&K are
levy a fee, which shall, not later than 4th year of   in full compliance. TN
operation of such market, amount to at least 1%  levies a modest fee
of the total transaction value of cocoons     which is nowhere near
marketed.                                     the 1% levy
requirement. There are
legal issues in TN
which are now being
addressed by the DOS.
SCH 11 PA      2           CP                                   The States (except J&K) and CSB shall ensure  In some cases the
that the charges for using drying chambers set up   drying chambers are
under-rate Project would initially cover 50%, and   being operated by
by the fourth year of operation 100%, of their  NGOs & private reeler
operating costs.                              associations. Full cost
recovery is effected in
such cases. Some
cocoon markets have
these facilities too
which are operated by
the market staff without
cost to user.
SCH 12 PA      5           C                                    The States and CSB shall ensure that labor    In compliance.
necessary for stove (chula) conversion is provided
by the beneficiaries.
SCH 13 PA      5           C                                    States & CSB shall make reasonable efforts to  In compliance.
ensure (i) coord. amongst gen. agr. extension
staff and ext. staff of depts. of sericulture at the
field level and (ii) involvement of the general
agricultural extension service in mulberry
extension..
SCH 14 PA      5           C                                    States & CSB shall ensure that mopeds provided    In compliance.
under Part I of the Project shall be issued
exclusively to extn field staff and that the
purchase of such mopeds by staff is financed
through loans provided by the States or CSB.
SCH 15 PA      5           C                                    The States and CSB shall take necessary steps in   In compliance/
consultation with credit institutions to facilitate the
flow of credit to eligible borrowers under the
project.
SCH 16 PA      5           C                                    The States and CSB shall take necessary steps to   In compliance.
enhance the role of women in sericulture
institutions including increased participation in the
production and marketing of silk
SCH 17(a) PA   5           C                                    Each State and CSB Shell by an agreed date with   In compliance.
the Bank, appoint one senior officer (who shall,
for States, be a wcman & shall report directly to
the director of the concerned DOS) as coordinator
of assistance to women & NGOs under the
Project.
SCH 17(b) PA   5           C                                    Each State shall appoint a state-level committee  In compliance.
with terms of reference and membership agreed
with the Association, to coordinate the assistance
provided to women and NGOs under the project.



30
Agreement!     Covenant   Present  Original        Revised       Description of Covenant                         Comments
Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
SCH 17(c) PA   5            C                                    CSB shal appoint a committee, with terms of    In compliance.
reference & membership agreed with the Assoc.
and chaired by CSB, to coordinate the provision
of assistance to women and NGOs under the
project.
SCH 17(d) PA   9            C                                    The state level committees, referred to above,  In compliance.
with concurrence of CSB, shall select NGOs
receiving assistance under the Project in
accordance with appropriate criteria agreed with
the Association.
SCH 18 PA       9           C                                    CSB shall submit to the Association every six  In compliance.
months a consolidated report on the progress of
Project implementation. (States shall submit
quarterly reports to CSB.)
SCH 19 PA       9           C                                    The States and CSB shall periodicaUy review with  In compliance.
the Association and revise the action plans and
models referred to in paras 3,7,8c,9c, and 29a of
this Schedule.
SCH 20 PA       5           C                                    Karnataka shall take necessary steps to ensure  In compliance.
that students from outside Karnataka shall have
same access to sericulture teaching programs of
the Shri Krishna Rajendra Silver Jubilee
Technology Institute as students from Karnataka.
SCH 21 PA       5           CP                                   States shall ensure that, once silk testing houses  Samples for all lots are
have been established and have become          not tested in all states
operational, all yarn to be sold in the silk   except Tamil Nadu
exchanges within each State are first tested an  where almost 100% lots
classified in silk testing houses prior to such sale    are tested.
SCH 22 PA      2            C                                    Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Jammu &        Karnataka, TN and AP
Kashmir shall introduce a fee on value of silk  are in compliance.
yam sold in silk exchanges and progressively
increase the fee to reach at least one-half percent
of such value by the 4th year of operation of such
exchanges.
SCH 23 PA      2            CP                                   Each State implementing Part H(2) of the project   The only attempt by AP
shall take steps to ensure that its equity     proved to be
participation in share capital of joint venture  unsuccessful and there
reeling & twisting enterprises supported under the   have been no further
project does not exceed 25 % of such equity share   attempts.
capital.
SCH 24 PA      2            CP                                   Prior to investment of equity in any joint venture    There was only one
reeling & twisting enterprise, such State shall  unsuccessful attempt.
ensure that such enterprise (including concerned    No further proposals
investment proposal) is appraised in account with    were made.
procedures & criteria agreeable to the
Association..
SCH 25(a)PA    2            NYD                                  Prior to investment of equity in any joint      See SCH 23 and 24 PA.
venture reeling & twisting enterprise, such State
shall ensure that such enterprise (including
concerned investment proposal) is appraised in
account with procedures & criteria agreeable to
the Assoc.
SCH 25(b) PA   S            C         3/31/90                    J&K shall take necessary steps to remove all   In compliance.
regulatory restrictions (except licensing
conditions) on the establishment of reeling
enterprises in the state.



31
Agreement/      Covenant   Present  Original       Revised       Description of Covenant                        Comments
Section         Type        Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
SCH 25(c) PA   5            NYD       3/31/90                    J&K shall take steps to operationalize a silk  The silk exchange is not yet
exchange for sale of silk yam produced in the  ready.
state through a self-regulated auction market in
which outside buyers are eligible to participate on
same terms as those from within the state.
SCH 26 PA       5           C                                    CSB shall ensure that all proposals for provision    In compliance.
of assistance for universities or technical institutes
shall first be examined & approved by a sub-
committee of AISRCC headed by its Chairman, &
including reps. of CSB, states & qualified
experts.
SCH 27 PA       5           C         3/31/90                    CSB shall carry out a review of selection criteria   In compliance.
used in basic seed multiplication and furnish to
the Bank the results of such review including
appropriate recommendations.
SCH 28 PA       5           NC                                   CSB shall ensure that at least 3 seed grainages to    There is a good reason
be established or strengthened in Kamataka, shall  for non-compliance.
be established by the private sector or undertaken   Karnataka has already
as a joint venture between CSB or Karnataka, or    considerable unutilized
both, of one part & private sector of the other.  grainage capacity & it is
not prudent to create
additional capacity.
SCH 29(a) PA   2            C                                    CSB shall submit to Assoc. & thereafter carry out  In compliance.
a plan of operation satisfactory to the Assoc.,
specifying procedures, criteria, interest rates and
repayment terms applicable to subloans to reelers
under Part H(l) of the proj. (reelers revolving
fund).
SCH 29(b) PA   2            C                                    Interest rates for loans to reelers under Part H(l)   In compliance.
of the project shall be at least 10% per annum.
SCH 30(a) PA   5            C                                    CSB shall establish a committee of Directors of    In compliance.
Sericulture of the States and the Member-
Secretary of CSB to select candidates for overseas
training.
SCH 30(b) PA   4            C                                    CSB shall obtain the concurrence of States prior    In compliance.
to any modification of the agreed state-wise
allocation of funds for such training.
SCH 30(c) PA   5            C                                    CSB shall obtain prior concurrence of IDA before  In compliance.
awarding any contract for technical assistance or
overseas training with a value about $200,000 and
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SCH 31(a)       5           C                                    CSB shall insure that institutions selected for  In compliance.
carrying out beneficiary assessment and socio-
economic surveys under Part L of the Project
shall have qualifications, experience and terms of
reference agreed with the Association.
SCH 31(bi)      5           C                                    CSB shall submit terms of reference and a copy  In compliance.
PA                                                               of the proposed draft contract for the engagement
of the institution that will carry out the beneficiary
assessment.
SCH 31(bii)     5           C                                    CSB shall submit an overall program for        In compliance.
PA                                                               beneficiary assessment indicating the main
elements for carrying out the assessment.
SCH 32(a) PA   5            CP                                   CSB shall establish pilot programs in the Pilot  Based on the field
States exclusively for the production of bivoltine    experience, a revised
silk.                                          action plan is under
implementation.



32
Agreement/      Covenant   Present  Original       Revised       Description of Covenant                        Comments
Section        Type         Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
SCH 32(b) PA   5            CP                                   CSB to enter into agreement with concerned Pilot   All pilot states agreed
State for temp. secondments to CSB during      but had problems in
project period of adequate nos. of staff of that  posting full staff..
Pilot State as may be necessary for carryout out
CSB programs, such staff returning to such state
after secondment.
SCH 32(c) PA   5            CP                                   CSB shall, by an agreed date, agree with each  Cocoon markets are
Pilot State on a timebound action plan for     established in pilot
establishing facilities & procedures for       states and investment in
operationalizing a free market in cocoons & silk    reeling and grainage is
yarn in such State, and investments in reeling,  underway.
grainages in private sect.
SCH 32(d) PA   5            C                                    CSB shall prepare and implement a timebound    CSB has prepared &
plan, agreed with each Pilot State, for handing  agreed with the states a
over to Pilot States seconded staff and facilities  time bound action plan
operating in the State.                        to handover most of the
facilities operating in all
pilot states except in
two states for which
discussion is on.
SCH 33 PA       1           C                                    CSB shall take necessary steps to adopt systems  In compliance.
for maintaining accounts & preparing annual
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting practices applied to
companies (with due regard to legal status of CSB
as statutory body).
DCA             I           C                                    The Borrower shall maintain records and        In compliance.
4a.01(a)(i)                                                      accounts reflecting expenditures
Status: C = Covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially.



33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                  Not applicable
2.
3.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of      Planned        Planned         Revised                    Actual         Actual
project cycle   Weeks        US$           Weeks          US$           Weeks          US$
Through                      n.a                          n.a              102.9         242.3
appraisal
Appraisal-                   n.a                          n.a               95.6         208.1
Board
Board-                       n.a                          n.a                3.1           7.8
effectiveness
Supervision    _             n.a           _              n.a              362.9         507.8
Completion   r               n.a           _              n.a               21.1          81.2
TOTAL        I             T_I_T_                                          585.6        1,047.2
Dollar budgeting only introduced in FY94 and therefore costs cannot be computed



34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month/year    Number of    Days in field   Specialized        Perform   Rating
project cycle               persons                      staff skills    Implement-    Develop-     Types of
represented    ation status  ment          problems
Objectives
Preappraisal   Feb-Mar'88    5 +7          28                 ---            ---
Japanese
grant reps                                              .
Appraisal     Oct-Nov'88    12+2 SDC       31                 ----
reps
Supervision
I             Aug-Sept'89   4+1 SDC        17            AGB,EC         I             I             N
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ A G ,P_    _ _  _  _
2             Jan-Feb'90    5+4 SDC        28            AGB. EC        I             I             N
AH,SL
3             July-Aug'90    5+2 SDC       30            EC, AGB        I             I             N
4             Jan-Feb'91    7+4 SDC+I   30               EC,AH,S,       1             1             M
UNDP                        M&E
5             Aug-Sep'91    5+4 SDC        28            EC, AG, S,B   1              1             M
6             Jan-Feb'92    5+4 SDC        35            EC,AG,S        1             I             M
7             Aug-Oct'92    4+4 SDC        47            EC,AG.S        I             1             P
8 (MTR)       Jan-Feb'93    5+5 SDC        44            EC,AG,S       2              2             P+M
9             Feb'94        4+5 SDC        20            EC,AGB        2              2             M
to            Aug-Sep'94    2+4 SDC        30            EC,AG         S              S             P+M
11            Feb-Mar'95    3+5 SDC        37            EC,AG,S       S              S             P+M
12            Sep'95        2+5 SDC        17            AG,EC         S              S             P+M
13           July-Aug'96    3+3 SDC        18            AG,EC,S       S              S             P+M
14            Dec'96        3+3 SDC        18            AG,EC,S       S              S             P+M
Completion    Jan-Feb'97    2              21            S,B,EC                                     P+M
+3FAOCP
_________            ~+3SDC__                         _  _  _   __   _   _  __                  _  _ _  _
Skills represented
EC= Economist, AG=Agriculturist, P= Procurement Specialist, AGB =Agriculturist Business Expert, S =Sociologist,
M&E=Monitoring and Evaluation/BA Expert, B=Biologist
Types of problems: N=No major problems, M=Management, P=Production



35
Am,endix A
Page I of 11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3065/Credit 2022-IN-IN)
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
l. INTRODUCTION
1.        INDIA The National Sericulture Project (NSP), implemented since 1989 with World Bank
(WB) and Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) funding assistance, represents a major effort to
support sericulture development in 17 states of India. Following its completion on 31st December 1996,
the Project's experience, performance and results were assessed by an FAO/WB Implementation
Completion Reporting (ICR) Mission' which visited India from 19 January to 9 February 1997. The
SDC team2 and representatives from the World Bank3 India Resident Mission made significant
contributions to the work of the mission.
2.        The main findings of the mission, summarised below, are based on: (i) field investigations
in different parts of the project area; (ii) discussions with a wide range of project participants
comprising farmers, including women, engaged in mulberry cultivation and silk worm rearing,
entrepreneurs in seed production, reeling and other silk processing activities, representatives of non-
government organisations (NGOs), research and other institutions, officials and technicians of the
Government of India (GOI) and participating states responsible for project implementation; (iii) a
review of relevant documents; and (iv) conclusions of the workshop organized by SDC with the
objective of providing a forum to discuss the project results (29-31 January 1997).
3.        The mission wishes to express its gratitude to the Member Secretary and staff of the
Central Silk Board (CSB) as well as the personnel of the Directorates of Sericulture (DOS) of the
participating states for their support, hospitality and courtesy.
lMission comprised N.D.A Hameed (Mission Leader), A.Morton (Sericulturist), and N. Storr (Economist).
2 Messrs. E.Schaltegger (Agronomist), H.A.Bertsch (Business Enterprise Specialist), Ms. F. Heierli (Sociologist)
and Ms. Girija (Program Officer).
3 Messrs. M. Balasubramanian (Project Task Manager, NDO) and H. Singh (Economist, NDO) .



36
Avvendix A
Page 2 of 11
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.        The project was designed to strengthen and expand India's sericulture sub-sector through
improvements in productivity, product quality and support services, and increased private sector
involvement in specific aspects of the industry. It was anticipated that the success of this endeavor
would provide the basis for India to exploit its natural advantage in silk production and long term
potential for furtier growth, without incurring unsustainable demands on the state and central budgets
5.        As appraised, the project included seventeen components. Its activities were planned to be
implemented over a five year period starting in 1989. The total project costs were estimated to be Rs
5.6 billion (US$ 347.1 million). About 51% of this was to be financed by the IBRD and IDA, 7.2% by
the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), 30% by commercial and co-operative banks with
refinancing support from the National Bank for Agricultural Development (NABARD) and the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI); and 11.8% by the Government of India (GOI) and
participating state governments.
6.        The project area covered the five major silk producing states of Karnataka, West Bengal,
Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, which together account for over 95% of total raw
silk production in the country, as well as 12 other pilot states which are considered as non-traditional
sericulture areas. The CSB, under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of-Textiles, and the DOSs in
the five participating traditional senrculture states were responsible for project implementation.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
7.        The project was implemented over a period of seven years instead of five years as planned
at appraisal. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project was undertaken in 1993. The MTR
highlighted the need for addressing issues relating to product quality, project management, privatisation,
programme in the pilot states, and research focus. No changes were recommended in the project
components or targets, although some innovative new activities (e.g an entrepreneur development
programme, productivity clubs, external research review) were added to the programme for
implementation.
8.        Overall, implementation has been satisfactory and most of the infrastructure and skills base
anticipated at appraisal are now in place. The main constraint to more efficient implementation appears
to have been the administrative delays which have affected all areas of the project, from civil works and
procurement to the authorization of improved mulberry varieties and silkworm races for distribution to
farmers. Improvements in implementation might have been achieved if specific provision had been
made within the project for more effective monitoring and follow-up of (i) timely commissioning of civil
works and procurement, (ii) decisive implementation or rejection of supervision mission
recommendations, (iii) prompt and effective institutionalization of management information systems and
gender issues within the CSB and DOSs management structures, and (iv) identification and elimination
of the causes of variable performance between the main agencies responsible for implementation.



37
Aopendix A
Page 3 of 11
IV. PRODUCTIVITY AND QUALITY
A. Research and Development
9.         At the national level, the prolect has financed the expansion and strengthening of the three
National Research Institutes and 13 supporting Regional Sericulture Research Stations; the construction
and operation of the Silkworm and Mulberry Germplasm Station, Hosur, and the Silkworm Seed
Technology Laboratory, Kodathi; and the establishment of the Seribiotech Laboratory, Bangalore. At
the State level, the project has financed improvements and strengthening of the Kamataka State
Sericulture Development Institute (KSSDI) established under the KSP-1 project, and the establishment
of a similar new institute for Andhra Pradesh. Significant slippage and cost overrun have occurred, but
sufficient infrastructure and equipment are now in place to support the research needs of the subsector
for at least the next 5-10 years.
10.       An important event attributable to the project but unforeseen at appraisal was the launching
of the external Research Review in 1994. This is bringing about a long overdue re-orientation of the
research system, focusing on the need to ensure that projects are relevant to the problems of the
subsector and are properly coordinated to avoid duplication. Only a couple of new improved mulberry
varieties have been developed land even these were not made available for large scale commercial use
by farmers during the project. However, the process of selection and on-farm validation has been
accelerated since 1994. Progress in the development and release of new silk worm races has also been
sIow.2
B. Silkworm Seed
11.       To meet an expected increase in demand for high quality silkworm seed, the Project
provided for the establishment and operation of 26 basic seed farms and 35 commercial grainages3,
each with annual production capacities of 1.5-3.0 million dfls. Infrastructure and equipment have been
significantly upgraded through the Project but the Mission is concerned about the continued delays in
installing essential humidity-controlled cold storage facilities, poor capacity utilisation, and the
efficiency and effectiveness of coordinated disease monitoring.
12.       During 1995-1996, seven of the nine grainages in Tamil Nadu, seven of the ten grainages
in West Bengal, three of the seven grainages in Andhra Pradesh, all ten grainages in Karnataka, and all
29 CSB grainages incurred losses and were unable to comply with the covenant of full cost recovery.
The main reasons for these losses were high overhead and staff expenses; poor capacity utilisation;
failure to charge for the dfils based on the cost of production; and unsatisfactory revenue collection.
Mulberry varieties S13 and S34 for rainfed conditions and S36 and S54 for irrigated conditions were approved
by the Research Committee in 1991. These varieties are reported to be grown in about 1,000 ha.
2 Thirteen new silk worm races are reported to have been authorized only by late 1995 and their  adoption
by the participating states have not yet picked up.
3 These figures do not include the basic seed farms and grainages of the States.



38
Appendix A
Page 4 of 11
However, with the implementation of the CSB and DOSs recovery plans, improved performance is
expected in 1997/1998.
13.       The establishment through the Project of private sector grainages (licensed seed producers,
LSPs) appears to have been very successful; for example, a large number of SSPs have come into
operation, more than 900 LSPs are reported to be in Kamataka and at least 200 LSPs in West Bengal
alone. Mission observations are that the LSPs are financially viable, with all the respondents expressing
satisfaction and intending to re-invest for expansion of their businesses. This appears to reflect lower
overhead costs, closer matching of supply to customer demand, and regular follow-up of customers to
ensure satisfaction and facilitate revenue collection.
C. Bivoltine Programme
14.       The production of about 1,000 MT per annum of bivoltine raw silk was envisaged as a key
factor in the objective of improving the quality of Indian silk. According to CSB estimates total bivoltine
raw silk production for the year ending December 1996 was 394 MT. Notwithstanding the possible
introduction of improved bivoltine hybrids within the next year or so, it is apparent that there is little
prospect of attaining the SAR target within the next five years.
15.       The reasons for the failure of the bivoltine programme are easily discernable and the
Mission submits that the design of the project did not incorporate the lessons that should have been
learned from the similar failure of the bivoltine component of the KSP. In summary, (1) bivoltine crop
packages were not available for farmers of different capabilities working in different agro-ecological
zones; (2) farmers generally prefer CB because these are less prone to crop failures; (3) the extra risk
involved in bivoltine rearing is not compensated for by any price premium in the commercial cocoon
markets (indeed prices for bivoltine cocoons are frequently lower than those for CB), so farmers have
no financial incentive; and (4) there is anecdotal evidence that the dominant handloom sector prefers CB
raw silk on account of its higher lustre and better capacity for deep dyes, whereas the powerloom sector
remains content to utilise imported ungraded filature raw silk which is available at comparatively low
cost.
16.       The reasons for the failure of the bivoltine programme are not just technical but include
market and institutional constraints. Therefore, the proposed integrated market study and the analysis of
the regulatory framework of sericulture would have provided a valuable framework for a subsector
policy to guide the industry through and beyond the forthcoming Ninth Five Year Plan. The delay in
implementing these studies has made them less useful for the operational phase of the project.
D. Pilot State Programme
17.       The Project made provision for the creation of basic infrastructure for bivoltine sericulture
in selected districts of twelve Pilot States. Although the selection of the districts took account of
meteorological data, it seems that insufficient attention was paid to other likely constraints such as the
prevailing farming systems, socio-economic conditions and the virtual absence of a vertically integrated



39
Avmendix A
Page 5 of 11
marketing system for bivoltine cocoons. Consequently, of the 21,237 acres planted to mulberry during
the project, 14,758 acres (almost 70%) was uprooted.
18.       The MTR drew attention to the need to restrict mulberry area expansion to the most
promising pilot districts and to concentrate on timely completion of civil works, upgrading of
productivity, and better conditions for cocoon marketing, reeling and marketing of raw silk. From the
information made available to the Mission, it is not clear that these recommendations were promptly
acted upon. What is clear, however, is that the average cocoon yields obtained (15-41 kg/100 dfl) from
bivoltine hybrids are far too low for competitive commercial production of bivoltine raw silk. Moreover,
only Kerala and Uttar Pradesh show any indication of yield improvements during the project period.
E. Civil Works and Equipment
19.       Allocation for Civil Works and Equipment accounted for a significant proportion of the
total cost, excluding credit financed by commercial and cooperative banks. Slippages occurred in the
construction programme and equipment procurement during the initial years of the project. Lack of
detailed and agreed specifications for specialized project equipment (e.g. for cold storage) at
appraisal/project start resulted in additional expenditures, e.g for visit abroad and engaging consultants
to identify equipment needs; less use of allocated funds; and poor capacity utilisation of the project
equipment, some of which was not procured until a few months before project completion. It is of value
to note that the decision to engage a procurement agent for construction/supervision and award
composite tenders (for civil, electrical and water supply works) after year two onwards helped to speed
up and complete most civil works.
F. Key Sericulture Indicators
20.       The Mission was disturbed by the continued lack of reliable and intemally consistent data
on physical indicators. In particular, the lack of a thorough baseline survey and follow-up surveys (as
specified in the SAR) makes it difficult to assess the changes that have occurred during the project
period, whilst the absence of with-project and without-project sample frames precludes any possibility
of objectively determining which changes, if any, are attributable to the project.
21.       On the basis of the data produced by the Workshop, it appears that the mulberry area
increased from 219,000 hectares in 1988/89 to reach a peak of 267,000 hectares in 1991/92 and
subsequently declined to 244,000 hectares by the end of 1996. This represents a net increase of 11
percent as opposed to the 22% envisaged in the SAR (an increase from 241,000 ha to 400,000 ha, of
which 52,000 ha would be attributable to the project). This reported net increase of mulberry area has
been achieved at high cost, with the area expansion of 133,022 hectares being offset by concurrent
uprooting of 109,239 hectares. Too much emphasis was placed on area expansion, rather than
establishing sustainable production systems.
22.       The consensus is that raw silk production increased from 8,528 MT in 1988/89 to 12,655
MT by the end of 1996, an increase of 48 percent. Although this is substantially less than the increase



40
Apa2ndixA
Page 6 of 11
assumed in the SAR (from 9,220 MT to 17,140 NvT, or 86 percent), it nonetheless represents a
significant achievement.
23.       The Workshop attributed the increased raw silk production to higher cocoon yields and
improved renditta. Average cocoons yields were estimated to have increased from about 29 kg /100 dfl
in 1988/89 to 39 kg / 100 dfl by 1995/96. There appear to be no reliable farm survey data to support
these estimates and, taking account of the still widespread crop failures, the Mission believes that the
stated national average yield is unrealistically high. Mission observations indicate that (i) commercial
seed production is under-reported; and (ii) the number of viable eggs per 100 dfl is variable and has
possibly been increased by the suppliers by as much as 20 percent. Similarly, whereas the Workshop
indicates that the average renditta has improved from 10.4 to 9.1, Mission observations on the price
differentials between cocoons and raw silk suggest that reelers would probably be incurring substantial
losses unless their renditta was 8.0 or better. It is therefore possible that the improvement in national
average cocoon yield is rather modest, say from 29 kg / 100 dfl (or less) to about 32 kg /100 dfl.
24.       Speculating to this extent is highly unsatisfactory, especially at the completion of the
implementation phase of a project of this scope and complexity. Aggregate statistics on key sericultural
indicators appear to be flawed by inaccuracies in data collection and processing (as demonstrated by the
striking ex-post adjustments of mulberry area). Implementation of the detailed sample survey designs
proposed in April 1991 would have alleviated this problem.
V. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING & TA
25.       The Project provided support for human resources development through strengthening of
the existing training infrastructure, upgrading of skills of farmers and technicians, and domestic and
overseas study tours. Overall, this component has been successfully implemented and has contributed to
a significant enhancement of skills.
26.       TSCs supported under the project have severed a useful purpose in expanding extension
coverage and facilitating input supply to farmers. However, many of the extension staff employed in the
TSCs have not undergone satisfactory training in extension techniques, and their lack of commercial
sericulture experience has limited their ability to design and adapt integrated sericulture packages to suit
site-specific needs. The Mission observation is that farmers seeking to improve productivity generally
make first recourse to other, more advanced, farmers rather than to the TSCs.
27.       Owing to the availability of technical assistance under Japanese grant during the project
period, the TA inputs of the project were not fully utilized.
VI. PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
28.       The Project sought to promote increased involvement of the private sector in key activities,
especially (i) silkworm seed production; (ii) chawki rearing centres (CRCs); (iii) production of mulberry



41
Page 7 of 11
saplings; and (iv) reeling, through providing advances to reelers and through equity participation in
Andlra Pradesh.
29.       In all the States where chawki rearing centres have been privatized, the results have been
most unsatisfactory and virtually all privatised CRCs are now dysfunctional. At current capacities and
current prices, CRCs are simply not financially viable. On the one hand, it is evident that most farmers
are not convinced that purchasing chawkis will give them higher returns. On the other, many
prospective CRC entrepreneurs question the viability of chawki production as an exclusive operation,
particularly in the face of competition from public sector operations selling chawkis at close to the cost
of production. The non-viability of these enterprises would have been highlighted sooner but for the fact
that the Project paid incentives in the early years to encourage the construction of the CRCs. Many
private CRCs went out of production shortly after receiving the final incentive payment. Nevertheless,
the Mission observed some instances where chawki rearing operations had evolved from task-sharing
within the extended family or amongst neighbours, and grainages combined with CRCs appear to be
viable in Kamataka.
30.       The contracting of mulberry sapling production to the private sector was undertaken as
planned, but met with reasonable success in only a few localities. The main constraint appears to be that
farmers generally prefer to make use of locally available cuttings, which they can often obtain at very
low cost. This reduces the market opportunities for mulberry nurseries and also constrains the
dissemination of new varieties.
31.       The programme to provide advances to reelers was not as successful as expected.
Similarly, the component for encouraging joint venture participation in Andhra Pradesh did not prove
attractive to the private sector and was terminated after two years.
32.       In 1992 an Enterprise Promotion (EP) Cell was established within CSB, to facilitate EP
activities. The thrust of EP programmes is to: (i) contribute to effective basic business, managerial and
technical training for existing entrepreneurs and, through the medium of the newly-established EDPs
(Enterprise Development Programmes), specifically assist potential new first generation entrepreneurs;
(ii) assist the creation, expansion or modernization of small enterprises by funding feasibility studies
and obtaining credit and access to land, equipment, power, permits, licenses, etc.; and (iii) promote
productivity clubs, self help groups, women's groups and trade associations. The reach, impact and cost
effectiveness of the EP programme appears to be very satisfac.tory, and the Mission is pleased to learn
that the CSB and DOSs have decided to continue this programme.
33.       In an associated initiative, the DOS in Karnataka has funded the development of "Growth
Centers", which provide an integrated site where potential investors can install combined reeling,
twisting and weaving facilities. This offers the prospect of improving the viability of post-cocoon
operations through vertical integration, and the results are awaited with interest.



42
Appendix A
Page 8 of 11
VII. POST-COCOON INTERVENTIONS
A. Cocoon Markets and Drying
34.       The cocoon market infrastructure so far established appears to have facilitated better
marketing and increased transparency, and is sustainable through the collection of market fees. At the
time of drafting this aide memoire, the Mission is still awaiting the requested data and this precludes
further assessment.
35.       The silk exchanges and testing houses envisaged at appraisal have been established and
appear to be functioning in a satisfactory manner. At the time of drafting this aide memoire, the
Mission is still awaiting the requested data and this precludes further assessment.
36.       The Project did not specifically address technical interventions in post-cocoon operations.
During implementation it became evident that a more vertically integrated and demand-driven approach
would be beneficial. Accordingly, some useful ad hoc interventions were made towards the end of the
project, mostly focusing on research, demonstrations, training, and better utilisation of by-products and
silk waste.
VIII. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS
A. Participation of Women
37.       The project has promoted several measures aimed at enhancing the role of women in
sericulture development including training, study tours, promotion of access to institutional credit,
participation in marketing, and deployment of senior and field level women officers and extension
personnel. These interventions have resulted in an increased awareness of income generating
opportunities from sericulture amongst rural women in a number of project localities; enhanced skills,
enabling the women to adopt improved techniques and so obtain higher cocoons yields and better
quality; and attitudinal changes amongst DOSs personnel, who now recognize the need for and value of
concerted efforts to increase access by women to production resources and support services. However,
these interventions have so far affected only a small proportion of the women in the project area and
there is a need to sustain and expand these programmes during the operational phase of the project.
B. NGOs
38.       Provision was made under the project to engage NGOs with the possibility to use their
services for a wide range of activities including promoting participation of women, landless and other
underprivileged groups in sericulture; obtaining access to cultivable wasteland for mulberry cultivation;
organizing groups to adopt improved rearing equipment; and other production practices and processing
activities. This component was administered by CSB with the assistance of a central coordination
committee composed of representative officers of CSB and the participating states.



43
Appendix A
Page 9 of 11
39.       In all, the services of a large number of NGOs (125) were used during the project period,
at an estimated total expenditure of about Rs. 31 million (until end December 1996). Although activities
such as group formation, mobilization for mulberry production and training in self-help have been
successfully undertaken by some of the NGOs, their achievements in sericultural activities have been
disappointing. Amongst other problems, the NGOs lacked technical expertise and practical experience
in silkworm rearing, cocoon production, reeling and other processing techniques, and this limited their
ability to organize and assist the participants.
C. Child Labour
40.       Consecutive review missions since 1992 flagged child labour not only as a serious equity
issue but also as a threat to the export potential of India's silk industry. The employment of child labour
appears to be prevalent throughout the reeling industry but is especially noticeable in Karnataka. Some
progress has been achieved towards eliminating child labour from the post-cocoon sector by enlisting
the co-operation of reelers, twisters and weavers through the active involvement of productivity clubs
and trade associations. Although the threat of non-renewal of reelers' licenses has proved effective in
Andhra Pradesh, this approach is not without its own negative social and financial impacts on the
children and their families. Further efforts must be made to comprehensively address this issue during
the operational phase of the project.
IX. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
41.       Monitoring and evaluation was one of the less successful aspects of the project. More than
80 BA surveys were undertaken, focusing on various aspects of the impact of the project on the
beneficiaries lives, but their relationship to the overall programme for beneficiary assessment specified
in the SAR has not been made clear. The studies provided some information that was utilized by the
project management, but the qualitative focus of most of the studies did not result in the quantitative
data and analyses envisaged in the SAR.
42.       The beneficiary assessment was to be supplemented by three socio-economic surveys to be
undertaken in the participating states, one at the early stage of project implementation and repeated
twice during the project period. These requirements have not been met. The absence of a
comprehensive baseline survey and any systematic follow-up means that an objective and quantitative
assessment of the changes that have occurred during the project period is extremely difficult. Moreover,
identification of changes due to the project interventions and changes that were due to external
circumstances is confounded by the lack of with-project and without-project sample frames in the
design of the periodic reporting of key sericultural indicators.
X. INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT
43.       Institutional credit was not financed under the project. The amount of credit disbursed by
commercial and cooperative banks in support of the project was in accord with the appraisal



44
Adix A
Page 10 of 11
expectations. However, it is not possible to assess the recovery rates of sericulture credit because
records of the on-farm loans are classified by the banks as general agricultural loans and no dis-
aggregated data are available.
XI. PROJECT FINANCE
44.       Of the originally improved IBRD/IDA funds equivalent to US$177 million, the IBRD of
US$30 million was cancelled in 1991 as a part of a wider financing agreement between GOI and WB.
Two other cancellations totalling US$24.9 million from the remaining IDA Credit were in subsequent
years because of increases in the availability of rupee funds arising from exchange rate movements.
45.       As of 4 February 1997, disbursements made under these funds amount to US$120.9
million (US$105.2 million IDA Credit and US$15.7 million SDC Grant). At the time of drafting this
aide memoire, details on actual expenditures and commnitments made under the project up to February
1997 were not available. Therefore, recourse was made to the information available in the December
1996 Supervision Mission Report, wherein it has been estimated that the total expenditure incurred by
CSB and the State Governments, as of December 1996, to be Rs 5,078 million or about 85 percent of
the revised approved limits, and there could be a saving of about US$34 million. These estimates will
be updated by the ICR Mission following receipt and analysis of the additional information requested
from the relevant implementing agencies.
XII. SUSTAINABILITY
46.       The Government has expressed its commitment to continue to support the subsector
through additional investments under the Ninth Five Year Plan. The publication of the Plan is awaited
for details of this commitment.
47.       The total number of Central and State level staff posts associated with sericulture is
anticipated to remain at a very high level. Maintaining this level of commitment is likely to place a
considerable strain on the public sector resources, and consideration should be given to measures aimed
at progressively devolving this responsibility to the private sector.
48.       To ensure the environmental sustainability of the Indian silk subsector, attention must be
given to better management of water, soil and fuel resources. The most critical resource is water,
because recent emphasis has been placed upon increasing the yield of irrigated mulberry even though
many regions are experiencing falling groundwater levels. Mulberry is far more drought resistant than
most agricultural crops and there is considerable scope for improving the yield and leaf quality of
rainfed mulberry varieties. The development of highly productive moriculture for rainfed conditions
should be given the highest priority in mulberry research if solutions are to be developed before field
conditions become critical.
49.       One of the reasons for the comparatively low productivity of mulberry in India, even under
irrigated conditions, is the widespread deficiency of soil organic matter. The on-going research and



45
Am,endix A
Page 11 of 11
extension programmes focused on green manuring, mulching, vormiculture, etc. should therefore be
encouraged.
50.       The demand for fuelwood needed for cocoon drying, cooking and reeling gives rise to
environmental concern. Whilst mulberry twigs and branches are themselves useful and significant fuel
sources for household consumption, there is a need to reduce fuel demand through continued research
into more efficient stoves at the reeling units. The Mission has leamt that a private sector research
institute has recently completed field testing of prototype gasifier-based ovens which demonstrated a 42
percent fuel saving over the conventional cottage basin ovens. The Mission therefore suggests that CSB
and the DOSs make enquiries with a view to further development of these ovens.
XIII. FOLLOW-UP
51.       The ICR Mission will complete its analysis of data in Rome and will submit the draft final
ICR Report and Technical Working Papers in May, 1997.
Delhi February 9, 1997
(Revised in Rome on 6 May 1997)



46                            Appendix B
Page 1 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL SERICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3065-In/Credit 2022-IN))
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT ON PROJECT COMPLETION
1.   INTRODUCTION:  Sericulture in India is overwhelmingly a decentralized
employment oriented agrarian enterprise in the cottage sector. As practiced by the
majority of sericulturists, it offers relatively higher returns for a modest investment, and is
propped up by the robust domestic demand for traditional handlooms. The five traditional
States of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Jammu & Kashmir
together account for over 98% of the mulberry raw silk production and about 92% of the
total raw silk production. In the wake of the IDA funded Karnataka Sericulture Project
which was implemented between June 1980 and September 1988, the Central Silk Board,
and the Directorates of Sericulture of the five sericulturally traditional States proposed
assistance for a multi-State National Sericulture Project for mulberry silk. This project
was appraised in November 1988 and Project related agreements signed in June 1989.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND FINANCING: Project assistance was a part
of the Bank strategy to support policies and investments which encourage economic
growth and social development in context of macroeconomics stability. Broadly the NSP
aimed to finance sericulture development through an important expansion phase requiring
improvements in productivity, product quality and support services, with increased
private sector involvement in specific aspects. The project aimed to raise the annual
production of mulberry silk *fom about 9000 tons to about 17100 tons in the project
period, of which 4200 tons was to be attributable to the project, together with incremental
employment of about half a million person years, with a share of 60% for women. The
total project provision was US$ 347.1 million (equivalent to Rs. 5555 million at a
conversion rate of 1 US$=Rs. 16) financed by an IBRD loan of US$ 30 million, IDA credit
of US $ 147 Million (equivalent to 113.8 million SDRs); counterpart contributions from
GOIVStates of US $ 41.1 million, advances from Indian commercial banks and financial
institutions of US $ 104 million and a grant from SDC of US $ 25 million (equivalent of S.
Fr. 40 million). Later, the proposed IBRD Loan, and a portion of IDA Credit amounting
to SDRs 17 million were canceled bringing the assistance line to 96.8 million SDRs from
IDA and 40 million Swiss Francs from the SDC. The components and their percentage
shares of the total project base cost of US$ 190.1 million were as below:



47                            Appendix B
Page 2 of 6
# Key Components                                                 % of
Base
Cost
1 Research and Development                                       13
2 Basic Seed Production                                           15
3  Seed Grainages                                                 18
4  Assistance to Private CRCs                                    5
5 Mulberry Plantations                                            1
6 Cocoon Drying and Cocoon Markets                               6
7  Silk Exchanges and Silk Conditioning and Testing Houses       4
8 Extension Services                                             15
9 Training Centres                                               7
10 Technical Assistance and Training                              4
1 1 Administration                                                7
12 Advances to Reelers                                            1
13 Joint Venture Participation                                    1
14  Support to NGOs                                               1
15 Construction of Smokeless Ovens                                1
16 Beneficiary Assessment and Socioeconomic Surveys               I
The project was approved as a seven year project with the understanding that the five
traditional States and CSB would implement their respective components independently,
with CSB coordinating and consolidating the reports.
3.    Project Design: The project design was perhaps influenced by the KSP though
the benefit of the Project Completion Report (PCR) of KSP was available much later. In
retrospect, some aspects of project design perhaps deserved greater attention at the
concept stage. It was optimistic even then to assume that the growth of the sector in the
1980s would continue into the 1990s when internationally, one country, namely China,
could dictate world raw silk prices. The projections in the SAR on raw silk production
without the project do not appear to be based on any statistical technique of rigor;
regression with earlier data would have yielded a much lower figure. Greater clarity in the
SAR on moot points like disaggregated productivity objectives and better analysis of the
socio cultural features and support requirements new areas may have given a better
perspective of the intervention strategies in a complex field as in sericulture. It is now
difficult to sideline the feeling that while the emphasis on the improvement of quality
through on farm bivoltine initiatives was to an extent justified, the impact of technology in
post cocoon areas on quality was perhaps not adequately comprehended at the time of
design. The sequel was perhaps an inadequate emphasis on the post cocoon supports
needed, and the overlooking of the kind of investments required for technology
development, demonstration and upgradation in a crucial area like reeling which the
private sector cannot absorb or put in place with high cost commercial credit from
financial institutions. The project particularly on the extension side, would perhaps have
been more cost effective had most of the extension service personnel augmentations been



48                            Appendix B
Page 3 of 6
designed in the form of farmer technicians of the kind in China. Perhaps project design
attempted to give a commercial and self balancing profile to certain necessary support
activities which cannot, in general, be filly financed by any private interest group all by
itself in sericulture. It may have been better at the design stage to have realistically
identified such activities on the basis of experience and laid down the ultimate targeted
limits of recurring support from Govt. or Govt. agencies. The goal that even in such
activities institutional recurring support from State/State aided agencies should be totally
tapered out or wished away, perhaps did not contribute to practicality of design or
achievement of certain project objectives. Clarity on the strategies to be adopted to
enhance quality on the one hand and to alleviate poverty through increased production on
the other was perhaps inadequate.
4.    Implementation and operation experience, evaluation of the borrowers
experience and lessons learnt from the project.
4.1   The NSP was implemented by the CSB and the five States in respect of
components identified for each participant. The project credit line closed on 31 December
1996 with an estimated overall expenditure by CSB and the States of 5112.2 million,
against an approved component cost of Rs. 583.797 million, and the target of Rs. 1652
million for credit from financial institutions. As per the Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
confirmed by the World Bank on 7 May 1997, the unavailed assistance after disbursements
of all credits due by IDA and grants by SDC would be of the order of US$ 34 million. It
is likely this shortfall would have been averted had the extension sought by one year
been sanctioned.
4.2   Operational experiences offered by the implementation of this largely rural based
project with multiple secondary socioeconomic objectives were unique to CSB and the
traditional states. The diversity of the components and the issues which arose over the
year held out many lessons.
4.3   On macro basis the project resulted in an increase in mulberry area in the project
period in the project area, and an increment of raw silk production as follows:
State/Pilot Projects  In the Project Area in    Incremental Silk Prodn.
the Project Period            1995-96
Hectares                  Tonnes
Kamataka          26137                      2947
Andhra Pradesh         21615                      634
Tamil Nadu          809                        365
West Bengal          5564                      220
Jammu & Kashmir           3302                       30
Pilot Districts In      2565                       17
Sericulturally Non-
Traditional States.
Total         59992                      4213



49                             Appendix B
Page 4 of 6
In the States of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu there was substantial uprooting of
mulberry from pre-project or non project areas, due to the effects of the perbrine disease
outbreak of 1991-92 which discouraged some new farmers, falling groundwater table,
erratic prices of cocoons and silk in markets consequent to the slashing of the 1989 prices
of silk (US $ 52) to around US$ 22 by china in 1992-93. In Pilot States though there was
a net increase of area there was extensive uprooting of planted mulberry due to specific
socio-cultural factors of certain districts, adverse seasonal conditions, competing crop
economies, inadequate flow of credit in some area, absence of arms length markets which
arise only when transactions reach a certain optimal level, and the inadequacy or timeliness
of State sponsored procurement systems, whose support was not a project component.
4.4   That in the face of these handicaps the project was able to result in the increase in
the production of 4213 tons of raw silk and in the process afford gainful income earning
opportunities to over a million person years per annum, is significant. Productivity in
terms of silk per hectare rose by over 35% on the average in traditional States. Bivoltine
hybrids, evolved in the course of a JICA assisted program (where a part of the
infrastructure was put up with NSP assistance) from 1991 and 1997 CSB research
institutes released 1O varieties of mulberry. Between 1995 July and May 1997, 17
silkworm races have been authorized. Indenting of these by the States and facilitation to
farmers to absorb these new technologies, accompanied by the increased use of
infrastructure set up towards the end of the project will enable the early manifestation of
those project results which inevitably have a gestation period.  The project has
substantially aided the upgradation of basic seed stock, and the supply of good basic seed
for multiplication by infrastructure creation. The External Research Review of 1994
helped in a reappraisal of CSBs research systems and a reorientation towards more rapid
transfer of technologies. There has been a definite increased sensitization of gender and
socio-economic issues and a better perception of the role of NGOs in development. While
the training in Chinese institutions of 315 technical staff has been a resource creation
activity of considerable potential, the numerous studies the project has facilitated
represent a fund of knowledge for policy guidance in future.
4.5 The lessons learnt are many but those relating to certain components like the
CRCs, the interventions in the Pilot States and in respect of Project Management, deserve
mention. It could be argued that in certain components the enthusiasm to move in a
certain direction had a doctrinaire flavor and this led to the possible glossing over of
certain realities. In respect of CRSs the model which found its way into the project
probably pedistrianised a sophisticated technical supportive concept with poor results.
Perhaps devotion of adequate consideration to the finer supportive details of CRCs which
apppear to function viably in China or Japan would have helped in better design of this
component. In the case of Pilot States more time could have been profitably spent at start
on planning strategies of implementation and evolving a pattern under which CSB could
have assisted the States to put up the micro projects, after a clear understanding on the
ground rules to be followed in respect of support systems to operate as a part of the
project till arms length markets are motivated to arise. The project presumption that



50                           Appendix B
Page 5 of 6
supply of saplings with progressive cost recovery, mere training of rearers and reelers, and
motivation of bankers to advance credit would create sustainability in new areas was not
well moored in reality.
4.6   Also, it does appear that for a project with so many components, decentralized
construction and procurement responsibilities, creation of an empowered specific project
implementation structure would have helped. A project Management Unit, separate from
CSB and the States and explicitly empowered to monitor and control the implementation
of the project (even though constituted by  personnel drawn from  CSB  and States)
would perhaps have been able to devote more focused attention to various issues and
brought into operation a certain uniformity of delegation of powers and producers among
the participant institutions, thereby assisting faster implementation.
5.    Evaluation of Bank Performance, Relationship among Borrower and
Financier, Lessons learnt.
5.1   The World Bank and the SDC fielded in the course of the project fourteen review
Missions. All the Aide Memoirs except the one relating to the Mid-term Review were
received promptly and had good guidance value. The Mid-term Aide Memoire took a few
months to finalize. While data on disbursed and undisbursed balances were easily
available in respect of IDA credit at any point of time, the case was not always so with the
SDC grants. The relationship of the CSB and the five States with the Bank and the DSC
was cordial throughout the project. Inputs from the Missions were mostly form the Bank
staff in the case of the World Bank and mostly from consultants in the case of SDC.
While the professional guidance of the Bank on the core issues of procurement, technical
assistance were very useful, the SDC suggestions which were predominantly related to
environment, gender, enterprise promotion and data management helped to increase the
sensitivity of participants to these matters. Perhaps for a complex project of this size,
the time spent on some Missions could have been more.
5.2   In retrospect certain issues relating to data systems, privatisation and procedure
merit mention. In the case of data collection and presentation, suggestions in the Aide
Memoires from time to time did lead over the project, to a crystallization of what could be
best done in a decentralized sector of diverse markets and practices. Data presentation
formats evolved over time, capturing data which were not a part of the earlier formats.
Mission inputs in evolving comprehensive formats much earlier (for instance in the wake
of the special workshop of 1991) would have helped. Also, the emphasis on the technical
features of data collection could have been better complimented with the tow identified
tools of the project for periodic evaluation namely, beneficiary assessment and socio-
economic surveys.
5.3   In respect of privatisation, sericulture is almost totally a privatized sector with
Govt./Govt. agencies providing support. Seed quality is a very important aspect of
productivity and quality and while the Bank & SDC made the increased privatization of



51
Appendix B
Page 6 of 6
the seed sector an important item of the agenda, one witnesses today the coexistence of
many under utilized Govt. grianages capable of supply of quality seed with facilities
funded by KSP or NSP, alongwith some good private sector producers and several
underequiped poor quality private seed producers. Perhaps a major approach on
expansion or strengthening of commercial seed production facilities in Govt., and
emphasis on licensing only highly screened and capable private seed producer, could have
increased seed quality to a greater extent and ensured better infrastructure.
5.4   The third point relates to the procedural aspects of the project. It may have been
practical to discriminate between projects where construction and equipment procurement
are geographically dispersed and where these are largely localized. A dispensation where
it could have been possible to procure ready built floor area would have, in some items
saved time and expenses. Adoption of the same    procedure for award of works for
construction of buildings in developed and rural areas does create difficulties and delays.
Similarly, in the purchase of equipments, common procedures for the purchase of
relatively low equipments made by only a few suppliers of limited capacity, and
comparatively high-tech equipment made by standard suppliers create problems of poor
response to bids, and/or delayed execution by the few suppliers. Greater restrictions on
the escalation clauses in construction contracts, waiving of bid requirements when the
equipment is covered by a government rate contract, permitting negotiations with the
lowest bidder satisfying technical requirements could make procurement less expensive
for the borrower and save project costs.
6.    Conclusion
6.1   The lessons learnt from the project experience have been rich and varied and the
CSB and the five traditional states are grateful to the World Bank and SDC for the
assistance that was offered to this sector through the NSP. The robust domestic market
demand, the evolution of new technologies, and the detailed planning for the post project
phase hold out abundant hope for the sustainability of this sector as a safety net for those
who rely on it in rural areas.



