Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3065 IN
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2022 IN
                  (National Sericulture Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                                and
                    STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
                                and
                        STATE OF KARNATAKA
                                and
                        STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                                and
                       STATE OF  WEST BENGAL
                                and
                        CENTRAL SILK BOARD
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3065 IN
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2022 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,   dated   June   16,   1989   among  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank),  the States of ANDHRA
PRADESH, JAMMU AND KASHMIR, KARNATAKA, TAMIL NADU, and WEST BENGAL
(hereinafter  collectively  referred   to   as  "the  States"  and
severally in each case as "the  State") and the CENTRAL SILK BOARD
(CSB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirteen million  eight  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR $113,800,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, provided that each State and CSB
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
Page  2
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the  Bank  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars  ($30,000,000)  on  the  terms  and conditions set
forth in the  Loan  Agreement,  provided  that  each State and CSB
agree to undertake such  obligations  toward  the  Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (C) the Borrower intends  to  receive  from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribu-
tion  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  forty  million  Swiss Francs
(SF 40,000,000) (Swiss  Contribution)  to  assist in financing the
Project on terms and  conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (the
Swiss Contribution  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between the
Borrower and Switzerland;
     (D)  Switzerland  intends  to   appoint  the  Association  to
administer  the  Swiss   Contribution   in   accordance  with  the
provisions of  the  Procedural  Arrangements  dated  April 9, 1987
between Switzerland and the Association; and
     (E)  The Borrower has received from the Government of Japan a
grant (the Japanese Grant) in  an amount of forty million Japanese
Yen (Y 40,000,000) to assist  in  the  financing of the Project on
the terms and conditions set  forth  in an agreement (the Japanese
Grant Agreement) dated September 20, 1988 between the Borrower and
the Bank acting as administrator of the Japanese Grant; and
     WHEREAS  each  State  and   CSB,   in  consideration  of  the
Association's entering into the  Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to  this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined in  the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan  Agreement,  respectively)  have  the respective meanings
therein set forth, and, wherever used in this Agreement (except in
Section 6.04 hereof), reference to  the Association, the Credit or
the Credit Account shall also be  deemed  to be a reference to the
Bank, the Loan or the Loan Account, respectively.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Each State and CSB  declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and agri-
cultural practices, and shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Each State and CSB shall take all such steps as shall be
necessary to assist the  Borrower  in  carrying out the Borrower's
obligations under the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
Page  3
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The States and  CSB shall carry out the obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General  Conditions  applicable  to  the Development Credit
Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions Applicable  to the Loan Agreement (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) Each State and CSB shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views   with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
     (b)  Each State and CSB shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which  interferes  or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit,  or  the  performance  by  such  State  or  CSB of its
obligations under this Agreement.
     Section  2.05.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 2.01(a), CSB and the States shall carry out the provisions
set out in the Implementation Program  set out in  the Schedule to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of CSB
     Section 3.01. CSB shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
agricultural and engineering  practices  under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. CSB shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property  and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound financial, engineering and
agricultural practices.
     Section 3.03. CSB shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) Each  State  and CSB shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to  monitor  and  record the progress of the
Project and reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
     (b)  Each State shall:
          (i)  have its records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of  this  Section,  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year  a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
Page  4
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  CSB shall:
          (i)  have its records and  accounts and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses  and  related  statements)  (including the
               records and accounts  referred  to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section) for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of the  States  and CSB thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the  date  on  which  both  the  Development Credit
               Agreement and  Loan  Agreement  shall  terminate in
               accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement or Loan Agreement or
both of said  Agreements  terminate  in  accordance with its terms
before the date specified in  paragraph  (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association shall promptly notify each State of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension  under  the  General  Conditions  applicable  to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
Page  5
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS/INTBAFRAD             440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Andhra Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Andhra Pradesh
          Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India
                                            Telex:
                                              0425-6325 APCS IN
     For Jammu and Kashmir:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Jammu and Kashmir
          Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India
                                            Telex:
                                              8375-9
     For Karnataka:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Karnataka
          Bangalore, India
                                            Telex:
                                              0845-2239 GOK IN
     For Tamil Nadu:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Tamil Nadu
          Madras, India
                                            Telex:
                                              41 8238 SCRT IN
     For West Bengal:
          Chief Secretary,
          Government of West Bengal
          Calcutta, West Bengal, India
                                            Telex:
                                              021 3191 WBGT IN
     For CSB:
          Central Silk Board
Page  6
          United Mansions
          39 Mahatma Gandhi Road
          Bangalore - 560 001
                                            Telex:
                                              953 8452798
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any State,  may be taken or executed by its
Chief Secretary  or such other  person or persons as the concerned
State shall designate in  writing,  and  the concerned State shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  CSB    may  be  taken  or executed by its
Member-Secretary or such  other  person  or  persons  as CSB shall
designate in writing,  and  CSB  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the States  and  CSB  and  so  long as the Development
Credit  Agreement  shall   not   have   terminated  prior  to  the
termination of the Loan Agreement:
     (a) the obligations of  the  States  and CSB to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements  to,  the  Bank  shall   be  satisfied  to  the  extent
performance in respect  of  such  obligations  is  rendered to the
Association;
     (b) the obligations of the  Bank to consult with, and furnish
information to, the  States  and  CSB  shall  be  satisfied to the
extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
     (c) all actions taken  (including  the giving of approvals or
granting  of  waivers)   by   the   Association  pursuant  to  the
Development Credit Agreement shall be  deemed to be taken pursuant
to both the Development  Credit  Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
and in the name  and  on  behalf  of  both the Association and the
Bank.
     Section 6.05.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                      AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE Of ANDHRA PRADESH
                    STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
Page  7
                    STATE OF KARNATAKA
                    STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                    STATE OF WEST BENGAL
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    CENTRAL SILK BOARD
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
                        Part I. States/CSB
Sericulture Research and Development
1.   (a)  The States and  CSB  shall,  by  December 31, 1989, take
necessary steps to identify,  and  subsequently designate as such,
all staff positions in  State  departments  of sericulture and CSB
respectively which are  responsible  for  carrying out sericulture
research (including research on breeding) (hereinafter referred to
as "research positions").
     (b)  The States and CSB shall  seek  to ensure that all State
department of  sericulture  and  CSB  staff  appointed to research
positions shall, other than in  limited exceptions on personnel or
performance grounds, ordinarily  have  a  minimum  tenure of three
years in such positions except for staff appointed to positions in
breeding research who shall have a minimum tenure of five years.
2.   (a)  The States and CSB shall  ensure that each university or
research institute (including  research  institutes of the depart-
ment of sericulture)  receiving  funding  under this Project shall
prepare annually a two-part  report  summarizing the main research
work undertaken during the past  year  as  well as setting out the
objectives and  budget  programs  planned  for  the  ensuing three
years.
     (b)  CSB shall cause  AISRCC  to  review and make recommenda-
tions on the reports referred to in paragraph 2(a) above and shall
furnish to the Association a  copy of the comments and recommenda-
tions of AISRCC.
Bivoltine Production
3.   The States  (except  Jammu  and  Kashmir)  and  CSB shall, in
consultation with CSB, submit  to  the Association by December 31,
1989, a detailed action  plan  for bivoltine production indicating
inter alia yearly  targets,  areas  to  be  selected for bivoltine
promotion  and  actions   to   strengthen  extension  service  for
bivoltine.
Commercial Seed (F1) Grainages
4.   The States and CSB shall ensure that funds provided under the
Project  to  grainages  for  permanent  working  capital  shall be
retained by such grainages and replenished from sales revenues.
5.   The States and CSB shall  ensure that public sector grainages
set seed prices so as to recover, in accordance with timing agreed
with  the  Association,  the  full  cost  of  production including
Page  8
operating  costs,  depreciation  of  plant,  equipment  and  other
infrastructure and for CSB,  its headquarters administrative costs
attributable to its commercial seed (F1) production operations.
6.   Without limitation to any provision  of this Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement, the  States  and CSB shall maintain,
or  cause  to  be  maintained  income  and  expenditure statements
showing total costs  and  revenues  of  their grainage operations,
have such statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the  Association  and   submit   such   audited  accounts  to  the
Association within nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
7.   The States  (except  Jammu  and  Kashmir)  and  CSB  shall by
December  31,  1989  submit  to  the  Association  an  action plan
acceptable to the Association for  the promotion of private sector
grainages and take necessary  steps  to  carry  out such an action
plan on a timely basis.
Mulberry Nurseries
8.   (a)  States (except Jammu and Kashmir) implementing Part D of
the Project and CSB shall collect  a sale price for saplings which
shall initially be adequate to cover at least 50% of the operating
costs of the  concerned  DOS  or  CSB  for  the production of such
saplings and which shall be  increased  so as to recover full cost
of production (whether for  direct  production or through contract
growing) by April 30, 1994.
     (b)  Jammu  and  Kashmir  shall  collect  a  sale  price  for
saplings which shall be adequate  to  recover  at least 50% of the
full cost of production by  the  end  of the fifth year of Project
implementation (fiscal year 1994-1995).
     (c)  The States and  CSB  shall  submit  to the Association a
plan, acceptable to  the  Association,  for sapling production and
distribution (including the collection  of  sale price pursuant to
Sub-paragraphs 8(a) and (b) above of this Schedule).
Private Sector CRCs
9.   (a)  Karnataka  shall,  by  December  31,  1991,  and  Andhra
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West  Bengal  and  CSB shall, by December 31,
1989, transfer all existing  state  owned CRCs (excluding CRCs for
seed production) to private farmers or groups of private farmers.
     (b)  The States and CSB shall  ensure that private farmers to
whom CRCs are transferred or  who are assisted in establishing new
CRCs shall satisfy the following criteria: (i) the farmer shall be
the owner of a productive  mulberry garden; (ii) the farmer should
already have, or  agree  to  have,  an  appropriate chawki rearing
house; and (iii) the farmer should have adequate experience in the
sericulture industry.
     (c)  The States and CSB  shall  furnish to the Association by
December 31, 1989 financial and organizational models and proposed
schemes of assistance on  the  basis  of  which assistance will be
provided to CRCs under the Project.
     (d)  The States and  CSB  shall  (i)  take necessary steps to
ensure that CRCs assisted  under  the  Project shall be capable of
being financially viable at least by  the fifth year of its opera-
tion; and (ii) enter  into  an  agreement with each private farmer
receiving assistance for establishing  or operating CRCs under the
Project setting out the terms  and conditions governing the provi-
sion of such assistance and the operation of the CRC.
     (e)  The States and CSB shall  not restrict the selling price
that CRCs may charge for sale of chawkis.
Cocoon Markets, Cocoon Drying and Testing
10.  The States and CSB shall  ensure  that all new cocoon markets
Page  9
except seed cocoon markets shall levy a fee which shall, not later
than in the fourth year of  operation of such market, amount to at
least 1% of the total transaction value of cocoons marketed.
11.  The States (except Jammu  and  Kashmir)  and CSB shall ensure
that the  charges  for  using  drying  chambers  set  up under the
Project would  initially  cover  50%  and  by  the  fourth year of
operation of such drying chambers, 100% of their operating costs.
Reelers
12.  The States and  CSB  shall  ensure  that  labor necessary for
stove (chula) conversion is provided by the beneficiaries.
Extension Services
13.  The States and CSB  shall  make  reasonable efforts to ensure
(i)  coordination  amongst   and   close   links  between  general
agricultural extension staff and extension staff of departments of
sericulture at  the  field  level;  and  (ii)  involvement  of the
general extension service in mulberry extension.
14.  The States and CSB  shall  ensure  that mopeds provided under
Part I of the  Project  shall  be  issued exclusively to extension
field staff and  that  the  purchase  of  such  mopeds by staff is
financed through loans provided by  the  States or CSB as the case
may be.
Credit
15.  The States and CSB shall take necessary steps in consultation
with credit  institutions  to  facilitate  the  flow  of credit to
eligible borrowers under the Project.
Support to Women and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
16.  The States and CSB shall  take necessary steps to enhance the
role of  women  in  sericulture  institutions  including increased
participation in the production and marketing of silk.
17.  (a) Each State and CSB shall, by a date agreed with the Bank,
appoint one senior officer (who shall,  for States, be a woman and
shall report directly to  the  director  of  the concerned DOS) as
coordinator of assistance to women and NGOs under the Project.
     (b) Each State  shall  appoint  a state-level committee, with
the coordinator referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  (a) above of this
paragraph as  convenor,  with  terms  of  reference and membership
agreed with the Association, to coordinate the assistance provided
to women and NGOs under the Project.
     (c) CSB shall appoint  a  committee,  with terms of reference
and membership agreed with the Association and chaired by CSB, and
with the coordinators referred  to  in  sub-paragraph (a) above of
this  paragraph  as  members,   to  coordinate  the  provision  of
assistance to women and NGOs under the Project.
     (d) The state level committee referred to in subparagraph (b)
above of this paragraph shall, with the concurrence of CSB, select
NGOs receiving assistance  under  the  Project  in accordance with
appropriate criteria agreed with the Association.
Reports and Review
18.  The States and CSB shall  submit to the Association every six
months  a  consolidated   report   on   the  progress  of  Project
implementation.
19.  The States and CSB  shall  periodically,  as requested by the
Association, review with the Association and revise as agreed with
the Association in the light of such review:
Page  10
     (a)  the action  plan  referred  to  in  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule;
     (b)  the action  plan  referred  to  in  paragraph  7 of this
Schedule;
     (c)  the plan referred to in paragraph 8(c) of this Schedule;
     (d)  the models and schemes referred  to in paragraph 9(c) of
this Schedule;
     (e)  steps taken to implement  paragraph 15 of this Schedule;
and
     (f) the plan of operation referred  to in paragraph 29 (a) of
this Schedule.
                          Part II. States
               Sericulture Research and Development
20.  Karnataka shall take necessary  steps to ensure that students
from outside Karnataka shall  have  the same access to sericulture
teaching programs  of  the  Shri  Krishna  Rajendra Silver Jubilee
Technology Institute as students from Karnataka.
Silk Exchanges and Silk Testing Houses
21.  The States shall ensure  that,  once silk testing houses have
been established and have become  operational, all yarn to be sold
in the silk  exchanges  within  each  State  are  first tested and
classified in silk testing houses prior to such sale.
22.  Andhra Pradesh,  West  Bengal  and  Jammu  and  Kashmir shall
introduce a fee on the value  of  silk yarn sold in silk exchanges
and progressively increase the fee  to reach at least one-half per
cent of  such  value  by  the  fourth  year  of  operation of such
exchanges.
Reelers
23.  Each State implementing Part  H(2)  of the Project shall take
necessary steps to  ensure  that  its  equity participation in the
share capital of  joint  venture  reeling and twisting enterprises
supported under the Project  does  not  exceed  25% of such equity
share capital.
24.  Prior to  the  investment  of  equity  in  any  joint venture
reeling and twisting enterprise, such State shall ensure that such
enterprise  (including  the   concerned  investment  proposal)  is
appraised  in  accordance  with  such  procedures  and  meets such
criteria as are agreed with the Association.
General
25.  Jammu and Kashmir shall, by March 31, 1990:
     (a)  take  steps   to   operationalize  three  self-regulated
auction markets for  the  sale  of  cocoons  in  which buyers from
outside the state are  fully  eligible  to participate on the same
terms as those from within the state;
     (b)  take necessary steps  to  remove all regulatory restric-
tions  (except  licensing  conditions)  on  the  establishment  of
reeling enterprises in the state; and
     (c)  take steps to  operationalize  a  silk  exchange for the
sale of silk yarn produced  in the state through a self-regulated,
auction market in which buyers from outside the state are eligible
to participate on the same terms as those from within the state.
Page  11
                           Part III. CSB
Sericulture Research and Development
26.  CSB  shall  ensure  that   all  proposals  for  provision  of
assistance under the Project  for universities or technical insti-
tutes shall first be examined  and  approved by a sub-committee of
AISRCC headed by  its  Chairman  and  including representatives of
CSB,  participating  states  and  other  senior  qualified experts
familiar with research needs of sericulture.
Basic Seed Production
27.  CSB shall carry out  a  review  of selection criteria used in
basic seed multiplication and furnish  to the Bank by December 31,
1989 the results of  such review including appropriate recommenda-
tions.
Commercial Seed (F1) Grainages
28.  CSB shall take steps to ensure that at least 3 seed grainages
to be established or  strengthened  in Karnataka under the Project
shall be established by, or  transferred to, the private sector or
shall be undertaken as a  joint  venture between CSB or Karnataka,
or both of the one part  and  the  private sector of the other, in
which total public  sector  equity  participation  shall be in the
minority.
Reelers
29.  (a)  CSB shall submit to the Association and thereafter carry
out  a  plan  of   operation   satisfactory  to  the  Association,
specifying  procedures,  criteria,  interest  rates  and repayment
terms applicable to sub-loans  to  reelers  under Part H(1) of the
Project.
     (b)  Interest rates for loans  to  reelers under Part H(1) of
the Project shall be at least 10% per annum.
Overseas Training and Technical Assistance
30.  CSB shall (a) establish a  committee of directors of sericul-
ture of the  States  and  the  Member-Secretary  of  CSB to select
candidates for overseas  training;  (b)  obtain the concurrence of
the States prior  to  any  modification  of  the agreed state-wise
allocation of  funds  for  such  training;  and  (c)  obtain prior
concurrence of  IDA  before  awarding  any  contract for technical
assistance or overseas training  with  a  value above $200,000 and
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Monitoring and Evaluation
31.  (a)  Institutions  selected  for   carrying  out  beneficiary
assessment and socio-economic surveys under  Part L of the Project
shall  have  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  of reference
agreed with the Association.
     (b)  Prior to the commencement  of beneficiary assessment and
socio-economic surveys under  Part  L  of  the  Project, CSB shall
submit to  the  Association  for  its  concurrence:  (i)  terms of
reference and  a  copy  of  the  proposed  draft  contract for the
engagement of the institution that  will carry out the assessment;
and (ii) an overall  program for beneficiary assessment indicating
the main elements for carrying out the assessment.
Pilot Program
32.  (a)  CSB shall establish pilot  programs  in the Pilot States
exclusively for the production of bivoltine silk.
     (b)  Prior to the implementation  of  Part  N of the Project,
CSB shall enter into an  agreement  with the concerned Pilot State
Page  12
for the temporary secondment to  CSB  during the Project period of
adequate numbers of staff of that  Pilot State as may be necessary
for carrying out the CSB  programs  in  that state with such staff
being returned to the service  of  such  state  at the end of such
temporary secondment.
     (c) CSB shall, by a  date  agreed with the Association, agree
with each Pilot State on a time bound action plan for establishing
appropriate    facilities    and    procedures    necessary    for
operationalizing a free market  in  cocoons  and silk yarn in such
state, encouraging the development of  new investments in reeling,
grainages and chawki rearing in the private sector.
     (d) CSB shall prepare and implement a time bound plan, agreed
with each Pilot State, for  handing  over to Pilot States seconded
staff and facilities operating in that State.
General
33.  CSB  shall  take  necessary   steps   to  adopt  systems  for
maintaining accounts and preparing  annual financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting practices applied to
companies (with  due  regard  to  the  legal  status  of  CSB as a
statutory body).
