Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2022 IN
                  (National Sericulture Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2022 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1989,  between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B) the Borrower  has  also  requested the International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and   Development   (the   Bank)  to  provide
additional assistance towards financing  of  the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith  between the Borrower and the Bank
(the  Loan  Agreement),  the  Bank  is  agreeing  to  provide such
assistance in an aggregate  principal  amount equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000) (the Loan);
Page  2
     (C) the Borrower and  the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on  account  of  expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of  the  proceeds of the Loan are
made;
     (D) the Borrower intends  to  receive  from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribu-
tion  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  forty  million  Swiss Francs
(SF 40,000,000) (Swiss  Contribution)  to  assist in financing the
Project on terms and  conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (the
Swiss Contribution  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between the
Borrower and Switzerland;
     (E)  Switzerland  intends  to   appoint  the  Association  to
administer  the  Swiss   Contribution   in   accordance  with  the
provisions of  the  Procedural  Arrangements  dated  April 9, 1987
between Switzerland and the Association;
     (F) The Borrower has received  from the Government of Japan a
grant (the Japanese Grant) in  an amount of forty million Japanese
Yen (Y 40,000,000) to assist  in  the  financing of the Project on
the terms and conditions set  forth  in an agreement (the Japanese
Grant Agreement) dated September 20, 1988 between the Borrower and
the Bank acting as administrator of the Japanese Grant; and
     (G)  the Project will be carried  out by the States of Andhra
Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka,  Tamil Nadu and West Bengal
(the States) and the Central  Silk Board (CSB) with the Borrower's
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the States  and  CSB  the  proceeds  of the Credit as
provided in  this  Agreement  and  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan as
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of even  date  among  the Association, the Bank,
the States and CSB;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra Pradesh;
     (b)  "Jammu  and  Kashmir"  means  the  State  of  Jammu  and
Kashmir;
     (c)  "Karnataka" means the State of Karnataka;
     (d)  "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu;
     (e)  "West Bengal" means the State of West Bengal;
     (f)  "the States" means the  States  of Andhra Pradesh, Jammu
and Kashmir, Karnataka, Tamil  Nadu  and West Bengal including any
successors to any of them;
Page  3
     (g)  "State" means, as the  context  may  require, any one of
the States referred to in sub-paragraph (f) of this Section;
     (h)  "Pilot  States"  means  the   States  of  Assam,  Bihar,
Gujarat, Haryana,  Himachal  Pradesh,  Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab,  Rajasthan,  Uttar  Pradesh and any other
state designated  by  agreement  between  the  Association and the
Borrower;
     (i)  "Pilot State" means, as the context may require, any one
of the States referred to in sub-paragraph (h) of this Section;
     (j)  "CSB" means the  Central  Silk  Board,  a statutory body
established by the  Borrower  pursuant  to  its Central Silk Board
Act, 1948 (Act No: LXI of 1948) or any successor thereto;
     (k)  "Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of  even  date
herewith between the Borrower  and  the  Bank  for the Project, as
such agreement may be  amended  from  time  to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions  Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (l)  "Project Agreement" means the  Project Agreement of even
date herewith amongst the  Association,  the  Bank, the States and
CSB, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (m)  "AISRCC" means the All  India Sericulture Research Coor-
dination Committee of CSB;
     (n)  "chawki" means a young silkworm  up  to the age of about
12 days after hatching;
     (o)  "CRC" means chawki rearing center;
     (p)  "DOS" means the Department or Directorate of Sericulture
of a State as the case may be;
     (q)  "Karnataka Sericulture  Project"  means the Association-
assisted Karnataka Sericulture Project (Credit 1034-IN);
     (r)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (s)  the sign "Rs" means rupees in the currency of India.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one hundred  thirteen million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 113,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of  the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and  the  account  established  for   the  purpose  of  the  Swiss
Contribution in accordance with  the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and  to  be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Page  4
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1996
or such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing  September  15,  1999   ending  March  15,  2024.  Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2009  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
Page  5
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out,  or cause to be
carried out, the Project with  due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  administrative,  financial, agricul-
tural and engineering  practices,  and  shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
obligations under this Development  Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause CSB to  perform  in  accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations therein respectively set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or appropriate to  enable  the  States, the Pilot States
and CSB to perform their  respective obligations in respect of the
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  Except as the Borrower  and the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall  make  available to CSB as a grant,
and to  the  States  in  accordance  with  the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development  assistance  to  the States of India,
such parts of the proceeds of  the Credit as are required for each
of them  respectively  to  carry  out  its  obligations under this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by the States and  CSB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Except  as  the  Borrower,  Switzerland and the
Association shall otherwise  agree,  the allocation and withdrawal
of the Swiss Contribution shall  be governed, mutatis mutandis, by
the provisions of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions of the
Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
Page  6
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any State or CSB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that a State or CSB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower's Central Silk Board Act (Act number LXI of
1948), as amended to the  date  of this Agreement, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of  CSB to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CSB or for the suspension of the operations of CSB.
     (e)  The Swiss Contribution  Agreement  shall  have failed to
become effective by July 31, 1989  or such later date as the Asso-
ciation may agree; provided, however,  that the provisions of this
paragraph shall  not  apply  if  the  Borrower  establishes to the
satisfaction  of  the  Association  that  adequate  funds  for the
Project are available to the  Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent  with  the  obligations  of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Page  7
     (f)  (i)  Subject to  sub-paragraph  (ii)  of this paragraph,
               the right of the  Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of the Swiss Contribution  made to the Borrower for
               the  financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
               suspended, cancelled or  terminated  in whole or in
               part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the  agreement
               providing therefor;
         (ii)  Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in  paragraphs  (c),  (d), or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely  that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the  Loan  Agreement  have  been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the  Association,  namely  that the Project Agreement
has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and
delivered on behalf of each of  the States and CSB, and is legally
binding upon each of  the  States  and  CSB in accordance with its
terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Section 5.02 of this  Agreement  shall  cease and determine on the
date on which the Development  Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date twenty (20)  years  after  the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Secretary  or  any  Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs  in  the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ECOFAIRS                        953-313546
                New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          INDIA
                          By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The Project aims to  assist  sericulture development in India
by supporting an important  expansion phase requiring improvements
in  productivity,  product   quality   and  support  services  and
increased private sector involvement in the industry.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Sericulture Research and Development
(1)  Expansion  and  strengthening   of  CSB's  national  research
Page  9
institutes and regional sericulture research stations.
(2)  Establishment  and   provision   of   incremental  staff  and
operating costs for  CSB  research  facilities including a central
germ plasm bank, a seed  technology laboratory and a biotechnology
laboratory.
(3)  Strengthening of the  Karnataka State Sericulture Development
Institute established under the  Karnataka Sericulture Project and
the establishment of  selected  sericulture development institutes
in other States.
(4)  Provision of grants to  Universities  in the States to assist
in financing specific  sericulture research projects, particularly
to adapt sericulture technology to local conditions.
Part B:   Basic Seed (Silkworm Egg) Production
     Establishment  and   provision   of   incremental  staff  and
operating costs, for new  basic  seed  farms and the expansion and
strengthening of existing farms  for  the production of basic seed
(silkworm eggs).
Part C:   Commercial Seed (F1) Grainages
     Establishment of new and  the  expansion and strengthening of
selected  existing  commercial   seed  (F1)  grainages  (including
provision of initial working capital).
Part D:   Mulberry Nurseries
     Production  and  distribution  of  mulberry  saplings through
private contract farmers in  the  States  and Pilot States and, in
addition, in Jammu and Kashmir,  through State nurseries and green
houses.
Part E:   Private Sector Chawki Rearing Centers
     Provision for not  more  than  five  years  after start up of
operations, of initial equipment  and  initial operating costs for
the establishment, expansion  and  strengthening of private sector
chawki rearing  centers  including  centers  transferred  from the
public to the private sector.
Part F:   Cocoon Markets, Cocoon Drying and Testing
(1)  Establishment and provision  of  initial  operating costs for
cocoon markets and cocoon testing units.
(2)  Establishment and operation of  cocoon drying chambers in the
States and Pilot States.
Part G:   Silk Exchanges and Silk Testing Houses
(1)  Establishment and provision of  initial operating costs for a
new silk exchange in each selected State.
(2)  Establishment of silk conditioning and testing houses for the
existing Bangalore Silk Exchange as  well  as each of the new silk
exchanges established pursuant to Part G (1) above.
Part H:   Reelers
(1)  Establishment of a  revolving  fund  for providing short term
loans to  private  sector  reelers  in  Andhra  Pradesh, Jammu and
Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the Pilot States.
(2)  Equity  investments  by  States  in  selected  joint  venture
reeling and twisting companies.
(3)  Provision of assistance for the  CSB program to propagate the
conversion of stoves of private sector reelers to smokeless stoves
Page  10
including necessary training for staff of the concerned DOS;
Part I:   Extension Services
     Establishment,  expansion  and  strengthening  of sericulture
technical service centers under CSB and DOS.
Part J:   Training
(1)  Training of CSB,  State  and  Pilot  State sericulture staff,
relevant  staff  of  State  universities,  farmers,  graineurs and
reelers by the provision of training and consulting services.
(2)  Establishment and the  provision  of  initial operating costs
for new, and strengthening of  existing, CSB and State sericulture
training facilities.
Part K:   Project Administration
     Provision of incremental  administrative  staff and operating
costs as well  as  new  office  space  and facilities necessary to
implement and supervise  expanded  programs  of  CSB and State and
Pilot States.
Part L:   Monitoring and Evaluation
     Carrying out  of  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the Project
including beneficiary assessment and socio-economic surveys.
Part M:   Support to Non-Government Organizations
     Provision of  grants  to  non-governmental  organizations for
selected  sericulture development activities.
Part N:   Pilot Program
     Carrying  out  of  a   program   by  CSB  consisting  of  the
implementation of one or more  of  Parts  A through M above in the
Pilot States for sericulture  development focussing exclusively on
the development of bivoltine silk production.
Part O:   Credit
     Provision of necessary credit  for  the implementation of the
Project.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and vehicles shall
be procured under contracts  awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to paragraphs 2, 3,  4  and 5 below, goods, works and
Page  11
vehicles estimated to cost less  than  $200,000 per contract up to
an aggregate  of  $30,000,000  and  works  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   Items or group  of  items  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per  contract,  up  to an aggregate limit of
$2,500,000 for  CSB,  $120,000  for  Tamil  Nadu  and $250,000 for
States  (except  Tamil  Nadu)  may  be  procured  under quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
3.   Works estimated to cost less  than Rs.20,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate limit of $140,000 for Andhra Pradesh, $270,000 for
Karnataka, $45,000 for Jammu and Kashmir, $123,000 for West Bengal
and $90,000 for Tamil Nadu and  $1,000,000 for CSB may be procured
through force account.
4.   Goods and works  estimated  to  cost  up  to  an aggregate of
$1,000,000 may be procured  by  joint venture reeling and twisting
enterprises receiving support  under  the  Project  in the form of
government equity investment,  in  accordance with the established
commercial practices of such enterprises.
5.   Mopeds for extension  staff  financed through sub-loans under
Part I of the Project    up  to  an aggregate of $1,500,000 may be
procured by  staff  receiving  such  sub-loans  in accordance with
established practices acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to (i) each  contract referred to in Part A
of this Schedule; (ii) each  contract  for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000  or  more;  and (iii) contracts for the
construction of the  first  grainage  under  Part  C and the first
cocoon market under  Part  F  of  the  Project, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such a contract are to  be  made  out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract together with other information required to
be furnished to the  Bank  pursuant  to  said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01(c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
Project,   the   Borrower    shall    employ   consultants   whose
Page  12
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be as agreed between  the Borrower and the Association. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures agreed between the Borrower  and the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3),  (4),  (5),  (6)  and  (7)  set  forth  in  the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $17,000,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
or Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account  or  the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Loan
                Account and deposit into  the Special Account such
                amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                shall have been shown  by said documents and other
                evidence to  have  been  made  out  of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account or the  Loan  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  13
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of the Development  Credit Agreement or from the Loan
Account in accordance with the  provisions  of Section 2.02 of the
Loan Agreement and Article V  of the General Conditions applicable
thereto; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible  Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered  into by the Association or
the Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  respective General
Conditions with respect  to  the  Project,  shall  equal twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Credit  Account  and  the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the  eligible  Categories  for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.    Such  further  withdrawals  shall be made only
after and to  the  extent  that  the  Association  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association or the Bank)  an  amount  equal  to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall  otherwise  agree, no further deposit
by the Association into  the  Special  Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all  or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association or  the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and  (c)  of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for  cancellation  in accordance with the
relevant provisions of  the  Development  Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement, including the respective General Conditions.
Page  14
