. w~~~~~~~~I



CURRENcY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00                 -              Blrr 2.07                             a
Birr                                   US$0.483
Birr 1 million          -              US$483,000
*i3REVIATIONS
AID3                   Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AMC                    Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CBD                    Coffee Berry Dlsease
CXC                    Coffee Narketing Corporation
CPKP II                Second Coffee Processing and MarketLng Project
CISC                   Central Planning Supreme Council
EBCA6                  Ethiopian Building Construction Authority
ETC                   Ethiopian Transport Construcrion Authority
IAR                    Institute for Agricultural Research
ICo                    International Coffee Organization
mCTD                   Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development
SPP                   Mnimum  Package Program
NPP I                  First Agricultural MinLium Package Project
fru                    Project Implementation UDit (of MCTD)
PIP                    Project Preparation FA-ility
SIDA                   Swedish Iternational Development Authority
VEIGIS AND MEASUS
1 kilogram (kg)                   -              2.205 pounds (lb)
1 frescula (fr)                                  17 kg
100 kilograms (kg)                -              1 quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)                                2.205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)                    -              2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (ki)                                 0.62 miles (mi)
GOVERNMENT OF ETIQOPIA
FISCAL  ER
July 8 - July 7
11 The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Eirr
has been constant from 1974 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPLA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:          Ethiopia
Amount:            SDR 33.2 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend about US$13.7 million of the proceeds
of the credit to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) at 7 percent interest per annum. AIDB will in turn relend
the proceeds to coffee washing station cooperatives at 11 percent
interest per annum with a repayment period of 15 years. AIDB's
schedule of repayments to the Government will match those of its
subloans. The Government will also make available about US$9.4
million of the credit to the Coffee Marketing Corporation (CMC) as
a grant in the form of a capital contribution. The Government
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The proposed project will continue efforts started under the first
Coffee Processing Project (Credit 290-ET of March 20, 1972) to
increase the country's foreign exchange earnings from coffee. The
project has been designed to improve the quality of higher value
washed coffee, and increase its share of total coffee exports from
the present level of about 11 percent to around 30 percent.
Pricing incentives will be used to stimulate improved utilization
of existing washing facilities, and new washing, milling, grading
and liquoring facilities will be constructed. Over three years,
the project will: (i) construct about 60 washing stations and 150
km of new access roads; (ii) improve 72 existing washing stations;
(iii) upgrade 300 km of existing rural roads constructed under the
first project; (iv) provide milling, grading, and classification
facilities; (v) assist coffee cooperatives; (vi) assist training
and research; and (vii) strengthen the Ministry of Coffee and Tea
Development (MCTD). At full development of the project, the
increased production of washed coffee is expected to lead to
incremental annual net foreign exchange earnings of about US$6.1
million equivalent. The project mainly faces the risk that the
proposed pricing incentives are not sufficient to induce coffee
farmers to bring fresh cherries to the washing stations, thereby
reducing washed coffee output and quality from both old and new
stations. To minimize this risk, the price premiums for washed
coffee will be reviewed annually. In addition, unexpected
increases in the costs of the new washing stations, or a
significant fall of price premiums on world markets, could lead to
a lower than expected rate of return.
IThis document has a resricwd distribution and my be used by recipients only in the perforane of
their official duties. Its wontents mny not otherwise be disosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
USS Million
Items                                 Local         Foreign         Total
Washing stations                      10.6            2.0            12.7
Rural Roads                            3.7            3.3             7.0
Assistance to Cooperatives             5.8             -              5.6
Training                               0.7            0.7             1.4
Research Trials                        0.3            0.1             0.4
Strengthening of Ministry
of Coffee and Tea Development:
(a) Planning Department             1.4            0.6            2.0
(b) Development Departments:
Extension Division            0.2             -             0.2
Cooperative and Credit
Development Division        0.8           0.2             1.0
(c) Coffee Marketing Corporation   5.7             3.9             9.6
(d) Project Implementation Unit    3.4             1.5            4.6
Contingencies:
Physical                            3.0            1.6             4.3
Price                               6.8            2.3             8.4
Total Project Cost                    42.Z           15.0            57.2
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)             40.2           15.0           55.2
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                                  20.0         15.0      35.0
Government                           19.4           -       19.4
Coffee Cooperatives                   0.8           -        0.8
Total                                40.2         15.0      55.2
m~~~    -
Estimated Disbursements:
USS million
IDA FY         84      85     86    87
Annual                                    5.0   10.9   13.2   5.9
Cumulative                                5.0   15.9   29.1  35.0
Estimated Rate of Return:    14 percent (for about 56 percent of the total
project cost).
Staff Appraisal Report:
Report No.3691a-ET, dated November 17, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 33.2 million (US$35.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second coffee
processing and marketing project. The Government will relend about US$13.7
million of the IDA credit to the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank at 7 percent interest per annum, with a repayment period of 15 years.
In addition, the Government will make available about US$9.4 million of
the IDA credit to the Coffee Marketing Corporation as a capital
contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 3552b-ET, Economic
Memorandum on Ethiopia) was circulated to the Executive Directors on
December 15, 1981. Since then, a Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in
March 1983, and its findings are reflected in the following paragraphs. A
summary of social and economic data is included in Annex I.
3.       Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a
Military Administrative Council. A Central Planning Supreme Council,
chaired by the Head of-State, and on which government ministers, peasant
associations, urban dwellers and trade unions are represented, is
responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of economic plans
and policies. In parallel with this body, a Council of Ministers is
responsible for implementation. The Government's general objectives
emphasize raising the living standard of all Ethiopians, especially the
poor, through central planning and control of the major industries, the
financial system and foreign trade, and increasing production. Emphasis is
being given to the provision of free and more widespread education,
improved health services and greater employment opportunities.
Economic and Social Reforms
4.        The reforms since 1974 have taken place against a background of
desperate poverty and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per
capita GNP of about US$140 in 1981, is one of the least developed countries
in the world. The population, estimated at about 31.8 million in 1982 and
growing at about 2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (about 85
percent). The literacy rate in Ethiopia has risen in recent years
primarily as a result of a literacy drive;according to Ethiopian
authorities some 50 percent of the population are claimed to be literate.



- 2 -
There is only one physician for about every 65,000 people and about 47
percent of the children of primary school age are enrolled. Many areas
have faced periodic drought and food shortages, the severity of which has
been increasing over time. The lack of transport is such that only one
quarter of the population is within one day's round trip on foot from an
all-weather road. This low level of development itself leads to low
savings, investment and growth.
5.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; and there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the past.
However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large scale, and in
most cases, the potential for commercial exploitation is yet to be
established.  There are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal
energy.  The country's main potential lies in agriculture, for which the
natural conditions of several areas are favorable. At present, around 50
percent of GDP originates in agriculture, and most industry is also
agro-based. Compared with other countries at a similar stage of
development, Ethiopia has a relatively skilled and trained work force, but
manpower shortages remain a constraint on development.
6.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced in
line with the goals set out in paragraph 3. Of most direct importance to
the majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural
land was made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and user
rights of up to ten hectares were allocated to former tenants and to others
personally willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were-
either handed over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or
retained as state farms. However, state farms account for less than four
percent of cultivated area. By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations
with seven million members had been formed throughout the secure rural
areas. These associations decide on limited local security and judicial
matters and are responsible for land redistribution and the establishment
and management of marketing and producer cooperatives. Few producer
cooperatives have been established so far, since the Government has been
proceeding cautiously and wishes the formation of such cooperatives to be
voluntary.
7.        In the urban sector, all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses restricted to one per family, with extra houses
nationalized. Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established
to parallel the peasant associations and have been delegated similar
powers. Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned
by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975, and are now subject to
centralized policy guidance and investment approval. The banks and
financial institutions were made subsidiaries of the National Bank of
Ethiopia. The private sector retains a role, notably in construction,
peasant agriculture, trade and small-scale manufacturing. Cooperative
enterprises are being encouraged in all sectors where private ownership is
dominant.



-3-
The Economic Campaigns
B.        By mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had emerged or
intensified. It was against this background that, in September 1978, the
Government introduced the first "economic campaign".   The economic
campaigns clearlv assigned priority to the productive sectors, at least in
the short run, and emphasized the need to improve discipline in public
sector organizations. The first campaign ran for one year, ending June
1979.  This was followed by two further  campaigns in the fiscal years
1979/80 and 1980/81. The Government is now considering the ways and means
to integrate such campaigns or action programs into a more comprehensive
*       multi-year planning process.  A ten-year plan is being prepared and would
serve as the frame of reference for two-, three- and five-year investment
plans.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        The Ethiopian economy recorded a recovery in 1978/79 after
several years of slow growth. During the three year period ending in
fiscal year 1980/81, real GDP growth averaged nearly five percent per
year. While the annual economic campaigns paved the way for this recovery,
contributions to growth came mainly from agriculture, which benefited from
good weather, and from industry, following the resumption of industrial
activity in and around Asmara. However, this short but impressive
performance began to slow down in 1980/81, with GDP growth falling to
about 2.9 percent annually during the period 1980/81 to 1982/83. This
deceleration in economic growth is mainly attributable to the drought which
affected agriculture, exhaustion of existing capacity in industry, and
inadequate investment in general. Although investment has been rising
slowly during the recent past, it was still at a low level of about 11
percent of GDP during 1981/82. Domestic savings averaged about four
percent of GDP over the three year period ending in 1980/81, but have
fallen below three percent since 1981/82.
10.       Ethiopia's current account deficit on external transactions had
remained under 6 percent of GDP during the recent years through 1980181,
despite a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. The external trade
picture has however worsened since 1980/81 with declining export earnings
(mainly owing to declining coffee prices) and rising import expenditures.
In 1981/82, Ethiopia's current account deficit widened significantly
to about US$318 million, equivalent to over 7 percent of GDP. The
deterioration in the external account was however cushioned by a
significant increase in long-term capital reflecting in large part
disbursements of concessional loans from various sources and by a moderate
increase in grant aid. Ethiopia's external debt service ratio which had
been of the order of 6 percent of export earnings in the late 1970s
increased sharply to about 10 percent in 1981/82, as export earnings
declined and more debt service payments fell due.



- 4 -
11.       The management of the government budget has been prudent in
recent years, with revenues being maintained at over 19 percent of GDP and
current expenditures running at a slightly lower level thereby yielding
moderate current surpluses; in 1981/82, the current surplus amounted to
about 1.4 percent of GDP. The overall budget deficits remained below 5
percent of GDP from 1978/79 to 1981/82. However, according to preliminary
indications, a leap in current expenditure during fiscal year 1982/83 has
led to a small current account deficit, while a simultaneous increase in
capital expenditure contributed to an overall deficit equivalent to about
7.5 percent of GDP.
12.       The growth of money supply (defined as money and quasi-money) has
been contained to moderate levels since 1978/79, as the National Bank of
Ethiopia reduced the rate of domestic credit expansion and began to monitor
the allocation of credit to priority sectors. Over the three year period
ending in 1981/82, the expansion in money supply has averaged about six
percent per year. The rate of domestic inflation (as measured by the Addis
Ababa retail price index) declined from 12 to 13 percent in 1978/79 and
1979/80 to about 7 percent in 1981/82 and to about 4 percent in 1982/83.
13.       Several policy measures have recently been taken to promote
economic growth and efficiency. A Joint Venture Code was published in
January 1983 with the object of providing a framework to promote joint
ventures between foreign investors and local public sector enterprises.
Noteworthy progress has also been made by the Government to simplify the
present tax system by reducing the categories of turnover/transaction taxes
from fifteen to four. As regards direct taxes, the approach being followed
by the Government is to strengthen the existing system of tax collection
operated through peasant associations. It is likely that assessment of
taxes will be carried out directly by the Government, leaving the
collection function with the peasant associations.
Medium-Term Prospects
14.       Ethiopia faces a difficult near-term future.  The terms of trade
are expected to continue to deteriorate in the short-to-medium-
term, particularly because of low prices for coffee - Ethiopia's principal
export. Capacity constraints (owing to low levels of investment during the
past few years) will impede further increases in domestic production.
Meanwhile, external assistance commitments, currently at a very low level
are not expected to rise fast enough to support significant increases in
investment or to sustain higher import levels (para. 18). Given the
present constraints on domestic resources and the low level of external
resource transfers, GDP growth is not likely to average more than about 4
percent per annum in the medium term, and could well be lower.



- 5 -
15.       The Government has taken a number of steps since late 1982 to
arrest the deteriorating economic situation. For example, the Government
has introduced a short-term focus within the framework of the ten-year
plan. Two, three and five-year investment plans are being prepared. The
Government is beginning to recognize the importance of revitalizing
agriculture through farmer incentives and improved technology; the need to
restore confidence among private entrepreneurs engaged in small scale
industry to draw them into the mainstream of development; and the need to
attract foreign investment and technology to help develop the country's
natural resources. The Government has also recently reassigned ministers
and key officials to help accelerate the pace of economic development.
Government Programs
16.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of programs
and projects, some of which had been under preparation before the
revolution and then subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor,
especially in rural areas. In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop
smallholder agriculture and to rehabilitate drought-affected areas. In the
manufacturing sector, some emphasis has been given to small-scale, cottage
and handicraft industries, and to the production of mass consumer goods.
Road construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards rural
roads. A plan for education is being implemented; this emphasizes primary
and non-formal education with increased cultural, economic and social
relevance. Enrollments at all levels have been increasing more rapidly
than before, especially in those rural areas which were relatively
under-provided with facilities. Rural health and water supply programs are
being expanded, and the Government has been preparing programs to improve
urban housing and services, especially for low-income groups. In mid-1979,
the Government launched a nationwide literacy campaign. Not least, the
Government has improved and expanded its relief operations.
17.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations
and kebeles over a short period (paras. 6 and 7) is a less tangible
achievement but one which may be of great long-run significance. These
organizations provide a basis upon which the Government can build and
accelerate its development effort, with emphasis on the poorest social
groups. Some of their potential is already being realized. For example,
they are playing a significant role in the construction of primary schools,
training centers, clinics, and rural roads, in reafforestation and
conservation activity, and in the organization of literacy campaigns and
other self-help projects.
External Assistance
18.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. Perhaps because of this, the



- 6 -
level of capital inflows to Ethiopia has been very low. In recent
years, disbursements of net official development assistance to Ethiopia
amounted to less than US$6 equivalent per capita, compared with receipts of
about US$20 per capita for low income countries taken together. Ethiopia,
however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position. Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development
(para. 16); it has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of
non-essentials, and increased taxes significantly to contribute to security
and developmental needs.
19.        Excluding military debt service, for which no information is
available, the ratio of Ethiopia's debt service to export earnings has
remained low (about six percent in 1980/81) because of the relatively low
level of external loan commitments in recent years, and the tendency of
some donors to shift to support on grant terms. But as noted earlier, the
debt service ratio has begun to increase -- it reached a level of about 10
percent in 1981/82. Total debt outstanding and disbursed was about US$875
million as of December 31, 1982. The Bank Group was for some years the
largest source of loans and credits, but in recent years, the European
Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the Soviet Union, the
German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia have expanded their support,
while development assistance is continuing from Sweden, the Federal
Republic of Germany and Italy. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and
Japan have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The
U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases.  The IMF has
provided Trust Fund loans and assistance under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust
Fund stood at SDR26 million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at
about SDR54 million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for
Ethiopia in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to
support an 18-month program designed to strengthen overall fiscal
performance and help improve the balance of payments. The standby was
fully disbursed and all the performance criteria met.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
20.        Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$667
million (less cancellations) as of September 30, 1983, consisting of 30 IDA
credits totalling about US$542 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. MIuch
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to an interruption in new
lending (para. 25). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only.
From 1973 to 1977, IBRD's and IDA's combined share of gross disbursements



of public medium- and long-term loans increased from 24.1 percent to 67.3
percent. However, these data tend to exaggerate somewhat the dependence on
the Bank, since capital assistance received by Ethiopia from other donors
in recent years has tended to be on grant terms. IBRD's share of total
public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 1982 has been
estimated at about 5 percent, and IDA's at 33 percent. Their shares of
total debt service in 1982 have been estimated at about 9 percent and 4
percent, respectively.
21.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. In the past decade, nine credits
totalling US$173 million have supported agricultural production and
marketing. The most recent one (Cr.1088-ET) is assisting the agricultural
minimum package program, which represents the core of the Government's
development plan for peasant agriculture. In addition, the last four
credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments.
22.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory and its overall record compares
favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In recent
years, security problems affected three of our agricultural projects, but
two of them eventually made satisfactory progress. Projects sometimes
suffer from management problems, but those in the highways and education
sectors particularly continue to have strong management. Financial
problems, rising labor costs and occasional shortages of construction
materials have also detracted from efficient project implementation on
occasion. However, our experience has been that the Government and the
project managements have generally been successful in resolving these
problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms introduced since
1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a number of
projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in others
detrimental. For example, the scope of the first Coffee Processing Project
was widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of washing
stations, whereas the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project experienced
production losses following the take-over of some farms by peasant
associations.
23.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was
about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern
Africa Region.
24.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve economic efficiency and to
continue to emphasize the productive sectors and essential infrastructure
in our lending program to help address the country's capacity constraints
and deteriorating terms of trade. An urban development project, a
petroleum exploration promotion and geothermal reconnaissance project and a
second road sector project have recently been approved. Three other



- 8 -
projects have been appraised -- an agriculturul research project to help
expand and strengthen existing research capabilities and efforts, a slxth
education project to support the Government's efforts to improve the
quality, quantity and relevance cf the country's education programs, and a
sixth telecommunications project to Improve and expand Ethiopia's
communications systems. In addition,*a third power project is being
prepared to help develop domestic energy resources to meet the needs of
Ethiopia's growing economy, and a peasant agricultural development project
to help increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. As part of
our economic and sector work, we are carrying out studies of the
agricultural sector,including a joint study with the Government on farmers'
incentives and marketing efficiency, and also studies of the energy and
industrial sectors. A study of the health and nutrition sector is planned
for early 1984.
Compensation
25.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress in
resolving compensation claims for assets nationalized In 1975. Over half
of the claims by value have been settled. The Ethiopian Government has
negotiated a share-purchase agreement with IFC in respect of its shares in
the Metahara Sugar Company and in the Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. The
Government's Compensation Commission has settled with IFC's partner In
Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, and with IFC's major
partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese company. The Commission has also
made an offer to one of IFC's smaller partners in the Textile Mills. The
Commission has also entered Into negotiations with a number of other
claimants and has made offers to a major American claimant and a major
British claimant, and has settled with five or more smaller German,
Japanese and American claimants. In addition, the Ethiopian Government has
agreed with the Italian Government on an arrangement to settle all Italian
claims.
PART III. THE COFFEE SECTOR
26.       Ethiopia is predominantly rural.  Eighty-five percent of the
population (about 28 million) live in rural areas and about 85 percent of
the total labor force is employed in agriculture. About half of GDP is
contributed by agriculture, and agricultural products comprise over 90
percent of Ethiopia's total exports. Crops account for about P percent of
the gross value of agricultural production with livestock and iivestock
products accounting for the remainder. Coffee is the single most important
cash crop; it contributed about 60 percent of export earnings in 1981/82.
27.       The Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development (MCTD) has primary
responsiblity for the coffee subsector, including improvement in coffee
production, harvesting, and processing. The Ministry maintains an
extension service and coffee inspectors, and is currently in charge of a
large anti-coffee berry disease (CBD) spraying program. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was established in the Ministry as an autonomous
agency in 1972 in connection with the first Coffee Processing Project
(Credit 290-ET) (para. 35) to manage the main project activities, including
construction work. However, following the completion of its activities
under Credit 290-ET, PIU's management and administrative capabilities have
weakened. Assistance will therefore be provided under the proposed project
to strengthen PIU (para. 51).



28.       Tne Coffee Marketing Corporation (CMC), established by the
Government in 1975, participates in the coffee market, especially the
export trade. CMC purchases unprocessed coffee at source through 51
purchasing stations, and then hulls and transports the coffee using its own
facilities. For the first three years of its operations, CMC marketed
only about 10 percent of total coffee exports but, in 1981/82, CMC marketed
all of Ethiopia's washed coffee and about 66 percent of its unwashed coffee
exports. CMC employs some 4,000 employees full-time and a further 400 on a
daily basis. Its management and structure are adequate. It is headed by a
General Manager who reports directly to the Permanent Secretary of the
Coffee Ministry. Reporting to CMC's Deputy Manager are departmental
managers for coffee purchasing, technical services, plant supervision,
administration, finance, and exports.
29.       The Institute of Agriculture Research (IAR) carries out research
in several fields including coffee agronomy, field crops, pasture and
forage, soils, horticulture, plant projection, animal science, agricultural
engineering, socio-economic studies, home science and food technology. The
Institute has been supported under various IDA-assisted projects and by an
FAO-funded research project. The Institute's research activities on coffee
are in need of further strengthening, however, and the proposed project
will help to address this need (para. 47).
30.       The principal entity for providing medium and long-term financing
for agricultural projects as well as short-term production credit to
peasant associations and cooperatives is the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) which was established in 1970 and then
reconstituted by a reestablishment proclamation in 1979. The Association
has provided four lines of credit totalling US$45 million to AIDB,
including an IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent (Credit 1275-ET)
approved in June 1982. In addition, AIDB has managed US$14.8 million of
credit funds for six IDA-assisted agricultural projects including the first
and second agricultural minimum package projects, as well as US$4.0 million
for three IDA-assisted road projects. Presently, AIDB has eight branches
serving agricultural areas.
31.       Arabica coffee is Ethiopia's leading cash crop, its principal
source of foreign exchange, and a major source of government revenue.
Coffee grows almost entirely on individual small farms covering
approximately 500,000 hectares of the highlands. Some 10 percent of coffee
production comes from wild growing coffee trees and is referred to as
'forest coffee". The four major coffee growing regions in Ethiopia are
Sidamo, Kaffa, Wellega and Illubabor, and they account for about 90 percent
of coffee arrivals at terminal markets in Dire Dawa and Addis Ababa.
Coffee production data are difficult to estimate directly on the basis of
areas planted and yields because of the irregular pattern of coffee
farming; it is thus estimated indirectly on the basis of exports and
assuming a high level of domestic consumption. Coffee production, however,
is estimated to have increased in recent years and, in the 1981/82 coffee
year (October through September), production was estimated at approximately
200,000 tons, of which about 80,000 tons were exported to both quota
markets (74,000 tons) and non-quota markets (6,000 tons).



- 10 -
32.       For a variety of reasons, Ethiopia's coffee exports have
fluctuated from year to year during the past decade. The International
Coffee Organization CICO) reintroduced export quotas for the coffee year
1980/81, and Ethiopia was granted a quota of about 74,000 tons, which was
largely commensurate with its past performance. Since then Ethiopia's
quota has increased, and for 1983/84 is about 81,800 tons.
33.       In 1981/82, washed coffee accounted for about 13 percent of total
exports (10,300 tons), but its share was only about 11 percent in 1982/83
due to adverse weather conditions and a relatively severe attack of coffee
berry disease. Unlike traditional Ethiopian coffees which are sundried,
the production of washed coffee requires specialized machinery and
facilities for pulping, fermentation and drying. The process begins when
the farmer, in anticipation of receiving a price premium over sundried
coffee, delivers fresh cherries to the nearest washing station which is
owned and operated by a cooperative of which he is a member. If his
produce is accepted, the farmer receives an initial payment and a weight
receipt for the fresh cherries delivered; if not, he sundries his coffee
and sells it to a private trader or CMC. After washing the coffee, the
cooperative sells all of its output to CMC which has a monopoly over washed
coffee purchases.
34.       Unlike sundried coffees which are fairly uniform in quality and
sold mainly on the U.S. market for the manufacture of instant coffees,
washed coffees have specific characteristics such as body and flavor which
differ from lot to lot. They are used largely in northern Europe, mainly
West Germany, for blending purposes. The two products are therefore not
substitutable, and have basically different geographic markets and end
uses. Generally, a substantial price premium is paid by blenders for high
quality Ethiopian washed coffees. The Sidamo and Kaffa regions produce
almost all of Ethiopia's washed coffee, accounting respectively for 76
percent and 22 percent of total production.
35.       The Coffee Processing Project, supported by a US$6.3 million IDA
credit (Credit 290-ET of March 20, 1972) was the first major project in the
coffee subsector. The project was expected to construct 100 washing
stations in Sidamo and Kaffa, as well as to carry out road construction,
research, training and project preparation activities. A shortage of
funds, however, led to a rescheduling of the project in 1976 and to a
reduction in its physical targets. In addition, some conceptual changes
were introduced following the revolution; in particular, private ownership
of washing stations was replaced with a cooperative form of ownership. By
the Closing Date of December 31, 1980, the project's achievements included
the construction of 57 coffee washing stations and  about 360 km of earth
roads, and the formation of 86 cooperative societies. Technical assistance
to the cooperatives was also provided. Since the Closing Date, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), using funding from AIDB, has completed an
additional 19 washing stations including four located on state farms,
bringing the total number of stations to 76. The Project Completion Report



- Li -
and the Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3976 of June 21, 1982)
reestimated the economic rate of return at about 20 percent, which compares
favorably with the 17 to 21 percent return estimated at appraisal. The
Audit Report concluded that, apart from some delays, project implementation
proceeded well and the project was largely successful in meeting its
objectives.
Coffee Markets and Prices
4
36.       World consumption of coffee is projected to grow at about 2.4
percent annually up to 1985, and then slow to an average annual rate of
X        about 1.3 percent. World production is expected to recover from  the
decline of recent years and reach about 5.6 million tons in the mid-1980s.
Production is then expected to gradually increase to about 5.9 million tons
by the mid-1990s. The world market in top quality washed coffee, however,
is a small market accounting for no more than 90,000 to 100,000 tons
annually, or about 2.5 percent of total world exportable production.
Existing producers are attempting to increase their production of these
coffees in order to raise export earnings while remaining within the
limitations of the ICO quota system. Ethiopia's objective is to treble its
production of top quality washed coffee by the early 1990s. As the
availability of washed and high quality unwashed coffee increases,
therefore, the historical price differential for these coffees can be
expected to decline. The average premium for Ethiopian washed over
unwashed coffee has been projected to fall by about 25 percent.
37.       The Government imposes a duty, a cess and turnover tax, and a
progressive surtax on coffee exports. In recent years, the surtax has been
the source of about one-third of the Government's total revenue. The
surtax is currently based on the ICO Composite Indicator Price at New York,
and affects washed hnd unwashed coffees equally. The surtax was first
instituted to capture windfall profits at a time of high prices in 1976/77
following the Brazilian frost of 1975f76. The boom in coffee prices,
however, gave way to a period of declining prices, and the producer's share
of the FOB price has fallen from about 70 percent in 1975/76 to about 35
percent in 1980/81, due in large part to the coffee surtax. The surtax
could be expected to inhibit increased production of coffee if Ethiopia
ever wished to significantly expand its exports, since it limits the level
of producer prices that CMC and private traders are able to offer coffee
growers. The surtax can also affect the attractiveness to farmers of
producing coffee relative to other agricultural crops. The surtax on
washed coffee, in particular, can affect the production of washed coffee
through its impact on the financial positions of CNC, and thereby its
ability to offer washing station cooperatives price premiums sufficient for
them, in turn, to induce farmers to deliver fresh coffee cherries to the
stations. Farmers gain the incentive to deliver fresh cherries to washing
stations from the price premium offered for fresh cherries over sundried
coffee, rather than from the absolute level of producer prices. A
substantial increase in the current premiums would necessitate either an
adjustment of the surtax on washed coffee or other similar measures (para.
59).



- 12 -
38.       Ethiopia's producer pricing system for washed coffee has not been
compatible with its objective to increase both the quality and the
production of washed coffee. First, until recently, the Government paid a
fixed price premium, irrespective of quality, for washed over unwashed
coffee, thereby not providing an incentive for quality processing.
Second, the producer price premiums for washed coffee have not been
adequate, and have also been affected by other factors; in particular, CMC
has sometimes retained funds as profits instead of using them to make
additional payments to farmers. In addition, funds paid to washing
station cooperatives have sometimes been diverted in contravention of their
bylaws to the construction of roads, schools, and similar facilities.
Together, these factors reduced the incentive to farmers to deliver fresh
cherries to the washing stations instead of sundrying them, and led to
washing station utilization rates averaging about 50 percent of rated
capacity. The Government, however, has taken steps to correct these
deficiencies. It has implemented administrative measures to stop the
diversion of funds, increased the price premiums for washed coffee, and
introduced a differential pricing system based on coffee quality. These
measures led to an increase in average washing station utilization rates to
about 60 percent in the 1982/83 season, but further improvement is
necessary (para. 59).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A report entitled "Ethiopia - Second Coffee Processing and
Marketing Project, Staff Appraisal Report", No. 369la-ET dated November 17,
1983, is being distributed separately. The proposed project was prepared
by the Ethiopian Government, with assistance from Bank Group staff.  The
project was appraised in April/May 1981 but further processing was delayed
pending progress on the compensation issue (para. 25). Updating work was
carried out by IDA missions in November/December 1982 and in
January/February 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from October
17 to 28, 1983. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Bekele Tamirat,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Description
40.       The primary objectives of the proposed project are to increase
the country's foreign exchange earnings by increasing the proportion of
higher value washed coffee in total coffee exports, and by improving the
quality of washed coffee. The proposed project, over a three year period,
will increase the share of high quality washed coffee from the present
level of about 11 percent to around 30 percent of total coffee exports,
thus enabling Ethiopia to increase its export earnings from coffee while
remaining within the limits of the ICO quota system. To achieve these
objectives, the project will include: (i) physical facilities to expand and
improve the processing and marketing of washed coffee; and (ii) price
incentive mechanisms to help ensure maximum utilization of these
facilities, as well as of those already existing. In particular, the
project will: (i) strengthen institutions serving the washed coffee
subsector; (ii) construct new washing stations and related facilities, and
improve existing stations; (iii) carry out research trials and studies
relating to washed coffee production; and (iv) provide the physical and
institutional infrastructure to channel back o producers their fair share



- 13 -
of the price premium paid for Ethiopian washed coffee on overseas markets.
Until recently, due to the lack of a separate physical infrastructure for
milling, grading and storing washed coffee, neither domestic buyers nor
sellers knew with certainty the quality and characteristics and hence the
values of coffees they traded.
Project Implementation
41.       The Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development (MCTD) will have
overall responsibility for project implementation. The Permanent
Secretary's office in the Ministry will coordinate the activities of the
various agencies involved in the project, including the Ministry's Planning
and Development Departments (paras. 48 and 49) and Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), the Coffee Marketing Corporation (CMC), the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), and the Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR). PIU will manage the day-to-day activities of the project,
and will be responsible for all civil works, the operation of a coffee
classification system, and monitoring and evaluation (para. 51). AIDB will
extend credit to cooperatives (para. 56), and IAR will carry out research
activities (para. 47). The Ministry's Planning and Development
Departments, PIU, and IAR will all be strengthened under the project
(paras. 48, 49, and 50).
Detailed Features of the Project
(a) Washing Stations
42.       About 60 new washing stations will be constructed, and design
improvements will be made to 72 existing stations. Forty of the new
washing stations will be constructed in Sidamo, and 20 in Kaffa.  The new
stations in Sidamo will replace 40 inefficient stations constructed prior
to the first Coffee Processing Project (Credit 290-ET) where no
improvements or design modifications are feasible.  The new washing
stations will each have a capacity of 130 tons of clean coffee per season,
and will incorporate a number of improvements including additional soak
tanks and drying tables, as well as devices to help prevent water
pollution.   Sites for them will be selected by a PIU team on the basis of
agreed criteria (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.10 and
Schedule 5). Consultant surveyors have been employed using funding
provided under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to carry out this
work for the first 15 stations (para. 54).
43.       The 57 stations constructed under the first Coffee Processing
Project will receive minor design improvements to incorporate recent
technological advances. Similar modifications will be made to the fifteen
stations constnrcted after the completion of the first project.
(b) Rural Roads
44.       The project will: ti) upgrade about 300 km of existing rural
roads constructed under the first Coffee Processing Project to all-weather
standards and provide funds for their maintenance during the project
period; and (ii) construct about 150 km of access roads to the new washing
stations to dry-weather standards. When completed, the Ethiopian Transport
Construction Agency (ETCA) will maintain the rural roads (draft



- 14 -
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09) and the coffee washing station
cooperatives will maintain the access roads (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 4).
(c) Assistance to Cooperatives
45.       The project will provide coffee cooperatives with incremental
working capital for the 60 new washing stations' operating costs, including
cherry purchases, fuel and transportation, and labor. AIDB will extend
loans to the cooperatives for the working capital. Existing AIDB loan
agreements with cooperatives for washing station construction prevent
cooperatives from obtaining short-term borrowing from other sources.
(d) Training
46.       Funds will be provided to construct, equip, and staff a school at
Gomma to provide training in coffee washing operations. This school will
have access to the facilities and staff of the existing IAR agricultural
research station at Jimma. In addition, instructors will be obtained from
the staff of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Coffee Ministry. The
school will have a capacity of 40 trainees, and specialize in the training
of washing station managers, processing engineers and accountants to
operate the 60 new washing stations. Refresher courses will also be
provided for those employed in the existing washing stations. The quality
of the instructors and of course content are satisfactory.
(e) Research Trials
47.       The first Coffee Processing Project provided funds to establish
coffee research substations that were managed by IAR in several areas of
the country. IAR initiated research on: (i) possible methods of increasing
yields from forest coffee; (ii) the performance of new coffee selections
resistant to coffee berry disease under differing environmental conditions;
'iii) methods of controlling coffee pests and disease; and (iv) various
food crops with potential value for coffee growing areas. The proposed
project will provide IAR with additional facilities, equipment and staff to
enable it to continue these research activities as well as to initiate new
research on both coffee processing and coffee waste reduction.
(f) Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development's Planning
Department
48.       The project  will provide funds for local staff as well as
expatriate and local consultants to carry out studies, under the
supervision of the Ministry's Planning Department, to: (i) review existing
methods of collecting, processing and transporting coffee with the
intention of introducing an appropriate system commensurate with the
increased production expected from the proposed project (36 months at
US$11,800 per staff month); (ii) update the existing coffee sample survey
of major coffee-growing areas to determine yields and production of coffee
as well as to measure the effects of taxation levels, price incentives and
adequacy of marketing arrangements at the farm level; and (iii) prepare a



- 15 -
future coffee processing project. The UNDP and the EEC are expected to
finance coffee sample surveys in 17 and 15 weredas, respectively, and the
project will finance surveys in 95 weredas.
(g) Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development's Development Department
49.       The Development Department will carry out coffee processing
extension activities and cooperative promotion activities. The project
will provide the Department with incremental local staff, vehicles, spare
parts, office furniture and funds for other operating costs to enable it to
fulfill its expanded role under the project. A qualified and experienced
Coffee Processing Officer will be apointed by July 31, 1984 to supervise
the extension activities (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03
(iii)).
(h) Coffee Marketing Corporation (CMC)
50.       The project will provide CMC with a combined mill and warehouse
for washed coffee. Presently, warehouses are scattered throughout Addis
Ababa and processing and cleaning of washed coffee takes place in three
different facilities creating many inconveniences and high processing and
transport costs. Locating the warehouse and mill together is expected to
reduce transportation costs and factory downtime. The complex will include
two warehouses, one for long-term storage with a capacity of 15,000 tons of
parchment coffee and another for short-term immediate use of 4,500 tons
capacity. A cpffee store of 8,000 tons capacity and six lines of milling
equipment,together with belt sorting and floor picking eqluipment, will also
be included. As part of the study of coffee collecting, processing, and
transporting (para. 48), PIU's Liquoring and Grading Department (para. 51)
will collect data necessary to determine specifications for a larger and
more sophisticated milling and warehousing facility to be constructed in
the future (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
(i) Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
51.       The project will strengthen PIU's operating departments for
accounts, administration and engineering, by providing funds for staff,
vehicles, equipment and incremental operating costs. It will also support
the establishment of: (i) a Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department,
to plan for civil works and the delivery of machinery, and subsequently to
monitor and evaluate project implementation and prepare a project
completion report; (ii) a Central Liquoring Unit to operate an incentive
pricing system for washed coffee; and (iii) a Workshop essentially
comprising a small manufacturing facility, to refurbish used pulping
equipment and to manufacture simple parts. Under a PPF (para. 54), a
classification system consisting of four grades was established by a
liquoring consultant who also trained local staff in its operation. In
accordance with Bank Group guidelines, a Chief Liquorer will be recruited
to head PIU's Central Liquoring Unit and operate the classification system
(363 months at US$10,600 per staff month), and a Workshop Manager will be



- 16 -
recruited to supervise the construction and start-up of the workshop during
the first year (12 months at US$7,400 per staff month) (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03 (i)). The Chief Liquorer will be appointed
by July 31, 1984 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(iv)).
PIU's General Manager and its Chief Administrator and Accountant will be
appointed by February 1, 1984 and have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03(ii)).
Cost Estimates and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$57.2 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties of US$2.0 million. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$15.0 million, or 27 percent of the
total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$55.2 million. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
53.       Except for the civil works components, cost estimates are based
on March 1981 prices, updated to August 1983, and have been derived from
recent quotations and appraisal estimates.   The costs of the civil works
components have been based on December 1982 prices. Physical contingencies
of 15 percent have been provided for civil works, and 10 percent for other
capital costsi (except professional fees and items included under the PPF
(para. 54)) and for all operating costs (except wages and salaries). Price
contingencies total 17 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies
and, for foreign costs, have been estimated at 7.5 percent for Ethiopian
fiscal year 1985, 7.0 percent for 1986, and 6.0 percent for 1987. For
labor and other local costs, they have been estimated at 7.5 percent for
1985, 7.0 percent for 1986 and 6.0 percent for 1987. For civil works, they
have been estimated at 10.0, 9.0, and 8.0 percent, respectively, for the
years from 1985 to 1987.
54.       An advance of US$700,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
was approved to help facilitate project start-up. The advance financed
staff, consultants and equipment necessary to assist: (i) the initial site
selection, survey, design, planning and preparation of contract documents
for construction of the first 40 washing stations, the training school, the
coffee mill and warehouse, the workshop, and the coffee liquoring
facilities; (ii) the establishment of the new liquoring unit; (iii) the
rehabilitation of existing milling equipment; and (iv) the start of coffee
processing research.
55.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 33.2 million (US$35.0 million
equivalent) will finance about 63 percent of the total project cost, net of
taxes and duties, including the foreign exchange costs and about US$20.0
million equivalent (50 percent) of the local costs. The Government will
finance US$19.4 million equivalent of the local costs plus taxes and
duties. Coffee cooperatives will finance about US$0.8 million equivalent
of the local costs. The financing of a high level of local costs is
justified in view of both the country's general economic needs (para. 18),
and the project's low foreign exchange component (27 percent).



- 17 -
56.       The Government will make available about US$9.4 million of the
IDA credit to CMC as a grant in the form of a capital contribution (para.
57). In addition, the Government will relend about US$22.7 million
equivalent of project funds, including about US$13.7 million from the
proceeds of the proposed IDA credit, to AIDB at 7.0 percent interest per
annum (draft Develoment Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule 4).
AIDB, in turn, will onlend to cooperatives about US$15.6 million to
construct new washing stations and modify existing stations, and also about
US$7.1 million to finance their annual working capital requirements. The
construction loans will carry an interest rate of 11.0 percent per annum
and a repayment period of fifteen years. The loans for working capital
will be repaid annually. The amounts onlent will not exceed 95 percent of
the total costs of the washing stations.   AIDB's schedule of repayments
will match those of its subloans. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4). The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
between the Government and AIDB will be a condition for effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01). The 7 percent
relending rate to AIDB is slightly higher than the current domestic savings
rate in Ethiopia. AIDB's 11 percent onlending rate should assure a
positive real rate in view of present inflation of about 7 percent per
annum and projected inflation of about 9 to 10 percent per annum. The
Government intends to ensure that the onlending rate remains acceptable to
the Association throughout the project period.
Coffee Marketing Corporation Finances, and Producer Pricing
57.       The severe underutilization of washing stations (para. 38),
combined with the volatility of the world coffee market, make it essential
that a more adequate price incentive system be established for washed
coffee. Moreover, improvements to the pricing system are critical to the
success of the project. In an average year, CMC's earnings are sufficient
to enable it to pay cooperatives the size of price premiums expected to be
necessary for them, in turn, to induce farmers to deliver fresh cherries to
washing stations instead of sundrying them. Nevertheless, in some years
CMC incurs trading losses, particularly when world prices are declining,
since the prices at which CMC buys coffee in Ethiopia are fixed by the
Coffee Ministry while the prices it receives in the export markets
fluctuate freely. The tax obligations of CMC, however, do not enable it
to accumulate adequate reserves to offset unprofitable trading operations
in either the short- or long-term, and currently CMC is undercapitalized.
This severely hinders CMC's ability to pay adequate price premium
incentives particularly when world prices are declining. In general,
Ethiopia's tax regulations are applied on the assumption that CMC will be
profitable from year to year. Presently, CMC is subject to an income tax
rate of 50 percent, plus a charge equivalent to five percent of its
capital. The remaining income is referred to as residual surplus, which
must also be paid to the Government after CMC has deducted an appropriation
to a general reserve. The deduction, however, cannot exceed 10 percent of
each year's taxable income and cannot exceed an amount which would increase
CMC's general reserve balance above 30 percent of the level of its



- 18 -
capital. The net effect of these obligations is approximately equivalent
to an income tax rate averaging about 90 percent and which reaches about
100 percent in years when no appropriation to the general reserve is
allowed. CMC must therefore be provided with some relief so that it can
accumulate adequate reserves. To do this, the Government will finance
CMC's new coffee mill and warehouse with a US$9.4 million capital
contribution from the proceeds of the IDA credit (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). The increased equity base will strengthen
CMC's financial structure substantially and enable it to maintain an
adequate general reserve balance.
58.       To determine appropriate premiums payable to cooperatives for
washed coffee, the Government's Washed Coffee Steering Committee under the
Chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of the Coffee Ministry, and
comprising representatives of PIU and other concerned departments of the
Ministry, CMC and the Ministry of State Farms, will meet at least once a
year and submit its proposals to the Government by June 30 of each year.
The Government, after prior consultation with the Association, will then
announce premiums payable to cooperatives and also indicative prices for
the purchase by cooperatives of fresh coffee cherries from farmers by
August 15 of each year, well in advance of the crop seasons (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.07 (i), (ii) and (iv)).
59.       In the current 1983/84 coffee season, CMC is paying cooperatives
an average premium of about US$10.6 per feresula, or US$ 625 per ton, for
washed coffee. This premium enables the cooperatives, in turn, to pay
farmers about 25 percent more for washed coffee than they would receive for
sundried coffee, and is expected to lead to a significant increase in
washing station utilization rates, which averaged about 60 percent in
1982/83. Experience gained in the current season, however, may indicate
that further increases in the premiums may be necessary. The premiums for
the 1984/85 coffee season--the first year of the project- will be
established by May 1, 1984 and will be acceptable to the Association (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07 (iii)). In addition, the
Government will take measures (including, without limitation, adjustments
of the premiums) to ensure that all washing stations financed by the
Association maintain a capacity utilization rate of not less than 85
percent, beginning with the 1984/85 coffee season (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.12). If found necessary, however, a major increase in
the premium could be detrimental to CMC's financial position because of the
present surtax on washed coffee (para. 37).  The Government is considering
possible amendments to the surtax but, in the meantime, it will ensure that
CnC does not incur any losses under the project as a result of increases in
washed coffee premiums over the premium levels prevailing in the 1983/84
coffee season (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.11).
Washing Station Finances
60.       In recent years, the existing washing stations have been largely
profitable. In the 1981/82 season, about 59 of the 61 cooperatives then
operating washing stations produced an accounting profit. The capital
costs of the new washing stations, however, could strain the ability of the



- 19 -
cooperatives to meet the associated debt service payments and also offer a
price premium to farmers sufficient to induce them to supply fresh cherries
for washing. In order for the cooperatives to generate adequate cash flows
and maintain their profitability, the capacity utilization of the washing
stations will need to be increased to about 80 percent. The proposed price
incentive system together with appropriate site selection criteria (para.
42) are expected to increase utilizaiton rates to about 75 percent in the
first year of operations and to about 95 percent from the second year
onwards.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Contracts for civil works, aggregating about US$22.3 million
equivalent, will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The washing stations and
roads will be grouped into packages to help facilitate participation by
small contractors. Works that receive no bids will be carried out by force
account. The expansion of five geographically dispersed research
facilities, estimated to cost about US$100,000, will also be carried out by
force account.
62.       Contracts for the supply of vehicles, machinery, equipment, and
spares, estimated to total about US$1.3 million equivalent, will be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. The items will be aggregated to the extent
practicable in order to attract major suppliers. Machinery gnd equipment,
totalling about US$3.1 million, for the first fifteen new washing stations
and the existing washing stations, the coffee mill, coffee processing
research and the workshop, will be procured by limited international tender
in view of the limited number of sources available. Machinery and
equipment for the remaining 45 new washing stations, totalling about US$2.0
million, will be manufactured in the workshop to be constructed during the
first year of the project. Spare parts for the existing and new milling
machinery, estimated to total about US$300,000, will be procured directly
from equipment manufacturers. Contracts for other machinery and equipment,
in packages of less than US$100,000, and totalling about US$200,000, will
be procured under local competitive procedures which are satisfactory to
the Association. When international competitive bidding is used, domestic
manufacturers will be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the existing
rate of customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of
competing foreign suppliers. In addition, local civil works contractors
will be allowed a preferential margin of 7i percent over bid prices of
competing foreign contractors.
63.       The Association will disburse against:  (i) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost),
and 50 percent of expenditures for locally-procured items, for machinery,
equipment, vehicles, and spare parts; (ii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures for civil works; and
(iii) 100 percent of total expenditures for consultants' services, studies
and training. Disbursements for machinery and equipment, civil works,



- 20 -
technical assistance and consultants, studies, and spare parts will be
fully documented. Disbursements for Items which are expected to be paid
for exclusively in local currency will be made against statements of
expenditure with documentation retained for inspection by IDA missions. An
audit report on these documents will be submitted to the Association within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. On the basis of the project
implementation schedule and general IDA disbursement experience on
agricultural projects in Eastern Africa, disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1987.
Accounts and Audit
64.       CMC's Finance and Accounts Department was established in
mid-1979, and is presently functioning well. PIU's internal control and
accounting unit will be strengthened through the appointment of the Chief
Administrator and Accountant (para. 51). The cooperatives will maintain
washing station accounts and financial reports. The quality of their
accounts, although inadequate ln the past, has been Improving with
assistance provided under a project financed by the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA). In addition, the Coffee Ministry has been
providing an adequate training program for cooperative bookkeepers. The
Coffee Ministry, PIU, CMC, AIDB and IAR will all maintain separate project
accounts, have them audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, and then submit them to the Association not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, PIU will submit to the
Association annually, a report detailing the physical and financial
condition of all exilting washing stations as well as those included in the
project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05 (c)).
Environmental Impact
65.       Washing stations are heavy consumers of water, and up to now have
discharged highly polluted effluent and cherry skins into local streams.
The project will minimize the pollution of local streams by providing
washing stations with a water recirculation system and improved methods of
water and skin disposal. Cherry skins will be dried and used as mulch. In
addition, IAR will study the use of mulch to make pressboard.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
66.       The project will support the Government's efforts to increase its
foreign exchange earnings by improving the quality, and increasing the
quantity, of washed coffee. At full development, increased production of
washed coffee from both the new and old washing stations is expected to
generate annual net foreign exchange earnings of about US$6.1 million
equivalent. Other project benefits will include the establishment of a
sound producer price policy for washed coffee, and the creation of
long-term employment for about 2,700 seasonal and 800 year-round workers.
67.       The overall rate of return for project components for which
benefitd have been quantified (about 57 percent of the total project cost)
is estimated at 14 percent. Expected incremental production from existing



- 21 -
washing stations was excluded from the economic analysis. Benefits from
coffee research activities and studies were also excluded because of
difficulties in estimating them. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the
rate of return would not fall below 10 percent if: (i) the capacity
utilization of the new washing stations reaches only about 79 percent; (ii)
project costs increase by about 21 percent; or (Iii) the price premium for
waslhed coffee at full projocL development La about 18 percent less than
projected.
68.       The project mainly faces risks that: (i) the proposed pricing
incentives are not sufficient to induce coffee growers to bring fresh
cherries to tlho washing stations, thereby reducing washed coffee output and
quality from botl old and new stations; (ii) the costs of the
new washing stations prove to be substantially higher than envisaged,
thereby resulting in a lower rate of return than expected; and (iiI) the
price premiums for washed coffee on the world markets fall significantly.
To minimize the first risk, the premiums for washed coffee will be
reviewed annually. The PPF advance, which will enable the project to start
expeditiously, will help to reduce the second risk.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Association, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately
70.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.
71.       An additlonal condition for effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Borrower and AIDB (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 17, 1983



- UZ -
ASS  (ylmem go. soMft                                                              ii u
A II S C IL-m    (5m$                   SIU1.4        9150 .
OFLhae"lr     CaM c qIu1v^l.atT    ..        sl.n        #5.8                                        1147,
Pl   k l  g  a   , 'IT .  IoTP TIUW I CA
lIiMj INItWII.aN  n  11(5 1 P ?ATMj.
PI'LA uiIga INttl TYAR 10(
P?APIaATg(INPOPULATiN (MapAIL)   pnil 
YIn ITATIIISMiI Pop. SKAIIINRD
PtINW3. OM, K0.                                             15.4 4nA
Wr q.K.  t011., L.ANDt                          VA5
PHI Yiat^Nnvr                      X           4siT24.*     i.S1.0                                       41,
rnPm.tATI'tvt AxGVtR^r S
1%-hA Yin                                                                                                  5.
ft% AND Annvr.                             $~ 2.e            52a5.
rnae                                  > l           4          2.1 2.61  t.                                2.3
TOTnAl.1                                         2.4          2.                2123
CIfifi ftIi, RATIE (Mt (    710RS)    30.3        40.9           ,45.                                          te
"'Wasp RRP"PWDt?IOM MAA15             34           57          2.2                  .                        37.2
FAMtLY PLANPNING
ACrW.7yr033   AUI ALa    (T OO")                                                                              .
tLGUX5 (3 OF ljAtfltI 0IL32)
INDEX a upMMp Pa. Its CAPITA
103.0      105.0ofr                                                    95.7
PRR CAPITA .VPFY oFIl.0                          IIo            .S               87.6                        5-
CA^tSLOPIs (I nip RRIltNIKERW)o
CM.flgjpq   ( RA PO   FR 1I l IDA V p)   9 1 .0  3 1.0       7 .                 1 09                        .
Paor tW T tlg   (t R apS   Ptt     Pg L  72 0   6 1  n        S9.0  1                                      5 6 . 0
OPMUN (AME  AItaA   FLt              290         230.0a                          6.                        11.2
tOULL (AcM  1-4S DtATN RAt                                                        1 25.7
LI"  UPWTI l%T IJTR*                                .               23. ?                      23. b
U"F     r ml'  R.ATESlun   t s;                   4             4621 3m u1.9
IOtOS, o SOarF WATHR (2pob)          .75.0         56.3                          26.5                      127.0
ACCtS  TO                                                                       12CtC WAPf 2t (471t ;
rA^L
ort1                                              60..  e.o  e                 2.7 
URtBAN                           3220 o      3390 0D      7$TD.0              36.8                       2 .4
ACCESS TO) ritCUETA DtSPOSAL                                                                                 0.
s01ro q         ~~3t.3                   102.1
M5tOHSA                                           14.0        14.0t 9C           26106.92.
"llStI Or  51                                                                         @                        * -OP
tOTAL2EO   O)CO
ROKAL                                           67.0         5.                63.7
KOhL                                 6~~          ~~~~~~~.0        2.,
POPT . PND C5O %PCT   /^                                                          . .
TO""                              3000.0      3080.0      J310.0.,13                                    2075.4
I Jul L                            220.0       390 . o      .90 .              330.4
I594PGO    I013o.e             3177.5                      0302.7
ADMISSIONS Pa HOSPITAL sun                                                     37.                          0
M=uht                                                10.6
AVKMA.r SIZE or  .0oSEnae
TOTAL4.
URBAN                                            4.2
RURAL                                            4.2
AVERACE No. CF P_R__                                                                    __s_o__O
TOTAL                                 .
ACCESS ro) ECTie,ao   WLH
TOrTALC  WDINs
pRitA                                3.f
12380*



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-23-                                                           ANNEX I
PACE 2
ETRIOPIA               - SOrAI. ISUTCATORS DATA SREET
ETltIOPA                             REFtEREXCE  OPS (GElZOTFD AvERACES) /s
MOST                     (MDST RECrxT ESTULATE) hb
RECEST             LW INCSWE              HIDtJLEINSCO2E
160-      1971'-" ESTVIATYR       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ADLUSTFD ESROLLLEET RATIOS
PRIntARY:  TOTAL                   7.0        16.0        43.0  Li          63.9                      97.2
MALE                    1l.n       23.0        56.0 -            73.6                     103.1
F'MALE                  3.0        In.0        30.0              51.6                     18.5
SECONDARY: TOTJL                   0-.4       4:0         11.0              12.5                     17.2
tILt                    1.n         6_n        14.0             61.7                      23.5
"FEIALE                 0.1         2.0         8.0               X.1                     14.2
OCCATIOSAL CZ OF SF.COTDART)        20.3         4.5          ..               7.3                      5.2
PWPIL-TFACHFR RATIO
PREIARY                           37.0        48.-        651.0            46.4                      42.9
SECONDARTY                        13.0        26.0        *1.0             25.1                      23.7
AD1LT LITERACT RATE (C)                _         6.0/1      15.n             36.5                      37.1
PASLE'YER CARSlTNtO'SADI POP         0.8         1.6         k.a/e            3.3                      18.8
RADIO ItECEIVERSPTHOUSAYD POP        4.9         6.3         8.0             45.3                      97.8
TV RXEIVERSITHOCSASD POP              _-         n.3         1.0               '.2                     15.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAIL- CENERAL
INTF.RSr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATIOK             2.1         1.1         1.7              4.7                      18.2
CINDMA ASNUAL .TTENDAECEICAPITA       ..           . -                         1.0                      0.6
LABO FORCr
TcTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         8975.0    10957.0    13206.0
FDIALE (PERCE!IT)                 35.7        35.2        33.3             34.5                      36.1
ACRtCULTURE CPERCENT)             38.0        84.n        60.0              76.9                     56.8
IWDSTRY (PERCENT)                 5-0         *-0         7-n              9.8                      17.5
PARTICIPATTON RATE (PERCENTr)
TOTA.L                            44.7        43.1        41.3             40.9                      37.0
NALE                              58.6        56.9        54.6              53.0                     47.1
MILF.                             lt.3       2Z.7         27.7             23.9                      27.0
ECORCHIC DEPEIDE.CC  RATIO           1.0         1.1         1-2              1.2                       1.3
TCE DSnTRRUrflON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ISCtCE
RECEIFD KT
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOGFSEH2L.S           ..
HEGHEST 207 2oF HOUSEHLDS            _          _.         ._                ..                        __
LOUEST 20: Or  aus    s             ..          ..U
LOWEST 407 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
POvERlT u T maCUlS
ESTIMAtTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IfEW!
LEVEL (CSS PER CAPITA)
I;RBIUI                             ..190.0                                165.9                    534.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        65.01e           87.4                     255.9
ESTMIATED RELATTVE POVERTY lIRtWE
LEVEL (UlSS PER CAPITA)
URRA.S                              __          _,        77_0/.e          100.                     491.5
RURAL                               __          _. -      37.o7            64.6                     188.1
ESTrIATFD POP. BELOW ABSOLTE
POVERTY INCEB LEVEL (C)
URBAN                               ..          ..        60.0/e            39.5
RURAL                           ....           ..          .07             69.0
NOT AVAIT-ABLE
. rT APILICAZ.E
n OT E S
ls The group aerages for each indicator are populatlos-ueigbteJ arlthmettc means. Coverage of costries smoig the
Indicators depends on avsilabtlicy of data mnd Is not uniform.
Ib Unles otherwise noted. Data for 1S60- refer to any yemr between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for -ost Recent Estt_te between 1979 and 1981.
tc FAO dsta differ someAhat from Ministry of Agricul twre data. and my erAgereate the appareat decline; Id 1977;
/c 1976; If 1975; kg 1978 Th AddMs Ababa only; /1 1965.
1I Estimates differ from those in the text of the Report since
the latter reflect the findings of the latest economic mission.
May 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                                                                                       __
-24 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3
tetat   lii.o.ite  ii . Ir-n I us etetos teernly  t.ea-~ te asn      'tertti I. totreltolo, itttot.tle ste henotedttst tey ee  tot  s iett.tetneall
tepsabe  ecos  o  Itelet  f  taaatiendeitinI ntso  ronit  tedSntile-irnttrte  o  oleeit  te   ti.   %.lae  rc  .tnthtus.usfu  S
denait.ordae .  easito..  ilt-te  ren., ee1_r2ere   etinmjrifWret   eac   nttt
.fll    ot . t ... l          lne......t .e.tt.n  eisodeueti   ec  ii*5cre  .t* le   c;it   r  h   e.nrei 
'10. atdat  fr  el  -Cce-.   clt.te  tasite.1  t.t.rte aen  te tditee dt.tt . iettit* f SOtte  it.et .tltr. e.ttot  ce  h
eserle! I reatie . I'ae m tcttr.entee.   hen  ssrene .c oly  enol  o rapatnctnttete  f ea ielrtaratetis e-e~thenet. trJ a
reference peter..                                                                                                  roL.         d.1d  p.-.,f   _tM
0th titatei   oi.k.t                                       enat.; it sotit.           yotetate..dttdad  h   or  o  piesititt
-  sa   nic   rsonpttett   ra-   tI!sn   !.ntere  lIt                                   rtrtteI-st-iISii      tts   tte   tteriyte
t`o.. atis    t.                                                                                 ctitt   e   tot   cun     ouutndse    ieee  1PatCe
i-tcttra  -lalotenfspt.ttr.  ae.asd  eteoall  irpenueti                           et  te b iaecaet  ue.   -tte                            rnla   tie   n
ftP tripn. ptot.res. neceet end otithe. aerdene ur tc tie faflo..' titto1.nerttta seetltartne
tilt etc loineats.                                        fofetaoou per tocatel hed - totl. ecite,-t - The 1-1 leplaice .teet
sten  ec  erleaii4a  r tei  reupI.: Ic  ocoter .2 , beyte  hu
[SW, iP,  u  10  dat..0   tjutoepplie    oat.tet  prctdlg ptotlpeyd t-tI                                                                                             a
dtef. 19f adtl   at.etattslcl   oldshG    rttiteeaa    eoiae  eari
PtitjCtos as :nat.  7.::c:~                                              teetlalteettisielteta are Ittlded only user ti-.L
Ftt. ces.tte. ie-ler  cstsetsl      a!Jul  I;ti.. lf-j* an_olttoaepr  epttSd-tit  ue   feeote  lee  dletheiee
tfeeiefietleus  ef-u00cc                                                                                                       "Iany   l inPetphltyo   et  S
istat peelaniso  t      Feje s .         o  tethi  neLeo  aed fehtttipth  ,substl                             f iseetiel 1crpeatto.    fP-          -l;t
talIta pcpecs0t.  fed1   co.trt  Ot.aod LsOAithe  05                                      tnctoes .eilieae Ltsi W        tarst  Is Iss-e0 itref              efat
ft dc,-cli;rtcppltso   ee  i   l    trpraetsrt,  ae                                             ror  ecscttl t-   - tent:  eat  usieel    tete totl.  sat  us "-Lead
eaa  aseaste  f  eenretaeeInttfttrtt.   heonttoar           ctnttet  f at  se  a  St ytery  ce   -peoetac-  f rep-oto
pesetu   tu   s  etete                   Itth -aist  hepsare    teee-                              reffetoFaepteeies   siat  lruLdttldc    eahI
letnatteppeelttolpatrlf, npt pt  Ilote   f                                                       er  htsJottftdlfr-    trte  ipier"dtttn   o
forcIt.tto R.s.  on --rat.en  trel          ttetorot  t   at- rel   atale  srstles                                                                    isy t-aoWIl-rue
ror no. 50e ouplo.attuett land - CfolseSod at ainse for aertostttirel land  ecnera-l, e.t laded
50 yatt  tdretrei~ rr  tt  orltorrenoca  Ino1-er                                       on;orasdpetetseLf.ecteyteotoi-s
pEf                                                                                                     ..I.Ss  frllJo, Ou~t tdlf-l  essodi . ecto. -
W.slter   eritah.  Itu-mo , aoa lft-t                                                 a repteoialde ..  if60 tota  aced 1eettesagd1tyat  tl-tt
0-frdotin  -aneOpe         btu ynt  -IA u..eu  Cs  itt -1fect- ttssaO   u-  --ntd1                                    1    A,F-1.f I.- t?.h
flaP  psoeteOlse; 1900. 1511,  us                                                                         f-.1 Lmlist' 19o0..           .-nMds 191yd..
ieee tus   i.lf,sttn   es                                                                  enuetelt  then tightpeciesel nQludee fLac.t  heerec  end
Sofl.~E~!oenPats- Lerag  tenec o  dsinn.r  a  a . P1 tear     . Iietteyohit
efagra                                                                                       Co.- setedleer" I, Ftpert these  feeslat1  - Nt-   I. f  ISton    far hr6es  t
Tfl i-crie     d           V.-5 1d eas       I..eeaae."a.                                    it. Ier -dirc,l  Uton  c- ihnL..u.anniie        su   s   py
Iolta. af find) rrtti41a ate                 Ft       - Lfe.   tm c    e.f                        .oit-i  e..    rtaieI  rec. .eri t  rlIee-.1-S it selee
date.-                                                             -a-,s FOS
rer aro.n ecrie  f caortn tprtuo  of eneor.cer,O- Ceptetd frs    Sfr1~o  rae. thosettt    taunicely  ette  pernet,tLelatagarc
s.eeyeqecoretatnettse   sprte  acilttetei--rype oatt  pe             oree  cd ueossne  oteneoeteehesoeOet-iteett,  ta. pentL
ateen  uo detshttu   o  ppeti-.,cu etltostig  ID ren. fo  net.                       fEdtsrot cerceet  W- LssrfensIs el,ttr0,  astrttco u!Eeeat) er fte
ac ecehld  ee?   Osthi  i?I odli- dtt                                  ae dcrroctt.   te M     tea mm"a usrc- rne  si -1 a   ae   ere   is
Perpasta  tette  f poisn ftru t ea-enI   pue. o-iu   ffy  el                               ot adfl   os
tn   .etr  tfn   e day. It et Asypt  oP foo   isiitda.     Se.frjletsii     ec ...tn!   ai  o   ed       tliptue
4LPattact  fursl         -Ctrs  coeI ttte  ho11   79.Ithrslde f-r ittssLv                                 atsaec-;tae   .t-   ii,u   st   aerfreu
eicsrtofti gy   o L tst-   riieo   o  seep- ate zo er-n -l   as-i. co                     ecnsi   ftnt   aetdfoterstoiee   tise   u ote
rote      "'sse   of  ite   by a -u  tcdb  at.?  c-toe   mci-                             140.lot.ad  OMdaa             rltee  r  A.suct a-.W. yarni rettp  ee
etctdam-  ar-    se  ht  Otea   9ea   fistpeccad  Iiaresre l-to  se-e=e1.eosef  here-ttie   s.   on   te   red



- 25 - BEST COPY  iUL -
AN,c I
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~b  4
a     &gmal Pkduct in Fr LB 1/ VnMal Rae of Oih iQ                          f GP at cmto    X   costCZ)
U"n.        Z                   F7976-8 1.8             ln9m
CNP at Mmret Prims            412.1      0D.0                    2.8          3.0         1.5
~Cw Dmstic 1nete                4840     10.9
&m   mstlg; Saq                 22.7      2.8
PesoLwoe Ral                  -361.3      8.2
t Eqnrt of    andx IIS         5D.0      11.7
jiirt of GM&s and NS           81.3      19.9
Qtlxt in Fn992 1/,                        Fxnime                Cht1 o        t
ValE AdI                                   (Bran)               Zof IP
I.E~~~l1n.  Z                  F~~~~y196     EY1M        MT979-61
Ag.iltnh           1949.3       48.6    QZmt 1w1pts             1W.6          19.9          18.5
inilstwy            634.3       15.8     Oziut Eq)Mx!1bzs       1692.4        18.5          17.7
SerrI;             1425.3       35.6    Orreit  nhm              131.2         1.4           0.8
4.-9   -I-100B.0      wr1 tqm ub             584.8         6.4           4.6
mxzy, CkU a:! Prh
(FSml Ye)                                             1978       1979       L980     Lg8     .1982
- iW ra k. wut      bed of plI)
itW axd qii-.m-y                                      1690.LB     M.3       ZIL8.7  2D7.8   Z308.7
Qlit torftml Gme                                       766.3      862.3      91M1   IM7.9    180.9
Bsi fkulit tD Pdute Se5xr and
Fira:ial Jrtiitiaw                                  911.9      1Z.7    16442   12.8    144.2
(E,aWs or Th Nz )
NIey ar Z of UP                                         23.4       23.3       Z.1    23.6        25.2
pmal p    dI BM
ml Prlc  kInc                                           18.6       12.9       12.5      1.9      7.3
Bxk (edlt tDo RIC S                                     72.9       12.5       12.3    14.4       6.6
Bak Q3iBt tD Primte                                     42.0       34.1       34.5      4.7      12.9
Ntoe  AU ooren= to dDls in this table ae at th awrg ed=1 zte paie g dl rg  t1e petI            axe wd.
1/ Fiscl e. JuiLy 8 tD 7.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                             - 26-
Rm 
5-
W-     s,_*  _x.                 -ol4.1        lw)-S 12
455.4    584.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 5ys  5192  12  .9   3.1
(tmet) ~~-2.5           7.Z S2 Oder                                     77.2 ,
lnebd t tbm    r)            23.       99       24D       45               T           W -9.4 1 2    11D z0
rzfiaVB  hmatie (Ut)                   ODX OW
PrLa  MT knt  (A2)    -3D.6    lam            110.5     745       .      c  Xt  *
pM:j 740.6,g            SB)   (122.-g    (132-5)   (2780            z    jmaf 
_ _11mtfi                -19.0    -14.3       -6.0   13.9 76
)rram                     276A      _2       -3.6       44.2           R=cii
Mh  ;.M  (br-               2,j35t    1277.    ]j.6      17bD1.
Mt wep aM   (e  yw)  682      U18.3    1387        315.
Pemxll 3ct t              41.6      3.0       27.0     14.0
DL*se   Y          19.8
n t- wae
asstmau  T' 44.6  53B 3
Bran - ms 048
,,s e*wlil



BEST COt'V  -iji,jLE
- 27 -
ANEE II
Page: I
SLUS  (F BANK MEGP  RAIG   fIN EDiIIA
A. SLHUW (F BANKC LA! AND MA  EDflS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Loan or                                                         (US$ Millon)
credLit                                                      (less cc3ao) Udis-
Number        Year      orror    Prpose                          k     ink       bursed
TWJ.we I    and nieteen credits fully disbursed.             108.6  217.2
Cr. 554-g1a/   1975     Ethiopia    Tel. V(2nd trancbe)               16.0          0.1
Cr. 603-Ef     1976     Ethiopia   R*l:eads Dev.                       27.0          8.1
Cr. 708-Er     1977     Ethlopia    Road Sector                        32.0         7.2
Cr. 707-Efb/   1977     Ehiopia    Revised Amiban                      25.0         7.0
Cr. 789-H      1978     Ethiopia    Grain Storae &                     2kg.  24.0    8.4
Cr.1088-er     1981     Etiopia    Agr. Mlrdiu  g. II                  39.2 C/      15.2
Cr.1141-Er     1981     Ethiopia    Fuatln V                           35.0 W/      17.3
C5.1;D5-EE     1982     Ethiopia    Agric. & Ixlust. Dnv. lRk          30.0        28.5
Cr.1366-Er     1983     Ethopa    Urbn eelopmnt                        2D.O/      20.0
Cr.1386-ET     1983     Ethiopia    Petrole  Exploratim                 7.0         7.0
Cr.1404-Er     19B3     Ethiopia    Second Rmd Sector                  70.0 C/     70.0
Total                                           108.6  542.4        188.8
of xdIc ba been repaid                         64.0    4.1
Total no outStading                              4.6  538.3
mount sold                        6.0
of hid  has been repaid         6.0             -       -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjusn S)                   44.6  538.3
Total Undisbirsed                                 -       -          188.8
X/ This credit is bin  clsed out.
b/ USl1.7 mUlil disbursed    eformfer Cr.418-EI, ALbara frrigatim, has bee   paid out
of the proceeds of the rm credit.
c/ Creditrs 1088-Er, 1141-Er, 1275-Er, 1366-Er, 18-Er and 1404-Er are d i;ted in S)s
(SIR 31.4 million, 28.2 millLion, 27.0 mdllUon, 18.0 milUon, 6.5 milion aid 64.9
mUlioLi, respectiely).



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                        X II
B. STa1I o MC DI:  DIS
(As of Septeb  30, 19B3)
Fiscal                                       pe of             AhTo
Year      chlig_ r _iness    toa                               EM4r  S      t8l
1965       extile MElls of  tre   w I      Textiles    1.5      1.0        2.5
1966      Ettiopia Pulp and Paper COD.     Paper         -      1.9        1.9
1968      EVA  etaluan, S.C.               &Sa         5.5      3.5        9.0
1970      Tetile Mls of Dire Dam11         TeAiles       h      0.2        0.6
1973      Teatile MiL    ofd ire Daw II    Textiles    1.5     0.2         1.7
Total Cross Candtints                        8.9     6.8        15.7
less cancel latlims,
!8teraltutios,
rqmep a  and sales                 8.9      4.3       14.8
Total Cmitmns now beld by Ic                   -     0.9         0.9
Total UmUsbirsed                              --                  -



- 29 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of key events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 19 months.
(b)  Preparation by:  Government of Ethiopia with the assistance of MDA
staff.
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA:  Continuous sector dialogue since 1971.
(d) First IDA mission: January 1978
(e) Appraisal mission: April/May 1981
(f) Updating missions: November/December 1982 and January/February 1983
(g)  Negotiations:  October 17 to 28, 1983
(h) Planned date of effectiveness: April 15, 1984
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
A PPF advance of US$700,000 was approved to facilitate project
start-up (para. 54).
III. Special Conditions
(a) The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and AIDB will be a condition for effectiveness (paras. 56 and 71).
(b) The Government will establish agreed mechanisms to determine and
announce prices for washed coffee (paras. 58 and 59);
(c) The Government will ensure that washing stations maintain a capacity
utilization rate of not less than 85 percent (para. 59); and
(d) The Government will ensure that CMC does not incur losses resulting
from increases in washed coffee premiums over the premium levels in
the 1983/84 coffee season (para. 59).



- 30 -
map IBRD 16107 - Ethiopia Coffee Areas
4.
a



IBRD 16107
I                                                      E T H I O P I A
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING
.J )K   gr   Az      I-                        'AND MARKETING PROJECT
1,      .dspoI X                    j^^        i                                                      'COFFEE A.A
E Riblftlp WI.yAmu.i   AFRICA
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-nonbra b l                            w S w  ,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wvt  b  / \ tr < 
+-;?<~~~~~                                                          - 0.1 rod  (II7t;I"  -p
'-a.           0                            a   Prn,euc. aap~~~~~~ahP~.vw.ce bou.EW.saARC
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* 4m
/  .....~~~~~~~~~~.......
,.-~~~~~~~~~~~~ c ~ ~ ~ ~~0ci
0    /~  %                                                                      41-  4
I  0  A  M  0                         o*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V
UGANDA'~~~~~~~~~~~~  i t     ?-~~~~~~~~~~ A  t                                            Z  J J






