Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RqportNo. 11949
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1429-ET)
JUNE 7, 1993
Agriculture and Environment Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$   1.00          =      Birr 2.07 (at appraisal)
US$   1.00          =      Birr 5.0 (at completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (Kg)     =      2.2 pounds
1 kilometer(km)     =      0.62 miles
I ton               =      1,000 kg      =      2,205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB                Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CBE                 Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CIP                 Coffee Improvement Project
CLU                 Coffee Liquoring Unit
CPPI                The First Coffee Processing Project
CTDEE               Coffee Technology Development and Engineering Enterprise
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
ECMC                Ethiopia Coffee Marketing Corporation
ERA                 Ethiopian Roads Authorities
ETCA                Ethiopia Transport Construction Authority
GOE                 Government of Ethiopia
IAR                 Institute of Agricultural Research
ICO                 International Coffee Organization
MCTD                Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SC                  Service Cooperative
SCPMP               The Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ethiopia
Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project (Credit 1429-ET)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ethiopia - Second Coffee Processing and
Marketing Project (Credit 1429-ET) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No comments have
been received from the Borrower.
The project was implemented under difficult social and economic circumstances, in
particular the increasing disruption of the civil war and the collapse of the international coffee market.
These problems, plus a contractor dispute, and the loss of some equipment in transit, resulted in
major implementation delays. The time to completion was eight years instead of the appraisal
estimate of less than four years. Because of the conditions coffee production also fell. However,
despite these problems the project had achieved most of its physical targets at completion and most of
the washing plants were running and have been operating at about 70 percent of capacity.
The reestimated ERR is 9 percent. This is a creditable achievement and the outcome is
rated as satisfactory. The institutional objectives were only partially achieved and the management
capacity of the local cooperatives remains variable. Sustainability is rated as uncertain.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. The
project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1429-El)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface.
Evaluation Summary  .................................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .....................                                                   1
Project Identity ............                    .................................                           1
Background .            ...............................................  1
Project Objectives and Description .................................    2
Project Design and Organization  ..................................                                          2
Project Implementation  ........................................                                             4
Project Results and Impact ......................................                                            6
Sustainability  .           .............................................                                    8
Bank Performance ...........................................   8
Borrower Performance  ........................................                                               9
Project Relationships  .........................................                                             9
Studies and Consultancies  ......................................                                            9
Project Documentation and Data  ..................................   10
Lessons Learned  ............................................   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                               ......... 11
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                              ...............               ..................   12
Table 1. Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................   12
Table 2. Project Timetable  .....................................    13
Table 3. Cumulative Credit Disbursements  ...........................   13
Table 4. Physical Implementation Indicators  ..........................   14
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing   ..............................   15
Table 6. Project Results .......................................    17
Table 7. Status of Major Covenants   ...............................   18
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources   .................................   20
Annex 1. Economic Analysis                  ................                ...................   22
Annex 2. Financial and Economic Price Estimates for Washed Coffee  ...                           .......  28
Annex 3. Washed Coffee Production Statistics .........                     ..         ..............   29
Annex 4. Coffee Export Quantities and Values .........                     ..         ..............   30
Map No. IBRD 16107
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1429-El)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Coffee Processing and
Marketing Project in Ethiopia for which Credit 1429-ET in the amount of SDR 33.2 million
(US$35.0 million equivalent) was approved on December 20, 1983. The credit was closed on June
30, 1992, four and a half years behind schedule. SDR 111,132 was canceled. The last disbursement
was made on November 4, 1992.
Parts I and III of the report were prepared by staff of the Food and Agriculture
Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). The report is based inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, credit and project agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between
IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda and information gathered by the FAO/CP mission
which visited Ethiopia in May 1992.
The Borrower has not yet submitted Part II.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1429-ET)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    IDA's involvement in the coffee sector started with the First Coffee Processing Project
(CPPI), implemented from 1972 to 1980. Despite a revolution in 1974 which resulted in the
conversion to a centralized economy, the project succeeded in achieving an economic rate of return of
20 percent. The Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project was a follow-up.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objective of the project was to increase the country's foreign exchange earnings
by increasing the proportion of higher value washed coffee in total coffee exports and by improving
the quality of washed coffee. The project aimed, over a three-year period, to increase the share of
high quality washed coffee from 11% to around 30% of total coffee exports, thus enabling the
country to increase it's export earnings from coffee while at the same time remaining within the quota
of the International Coffee Organization. The project sought to achieve these objectives in two main
ways: (a) by providing the physical facilities to expand and improve the processing and marketing of
washed coffee, and (b) by sustaining the price premium and quality differentials for washed coffee to
ensure maximum utilization of the washing stations.
Project Implementation
3.    Overall responsibility for project implementation was given to the Ministry of Coffee and Tea
Development (MCTD). The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), recently renamed the Coffee
Technology Development and Engineering Enterprise of MCTD was given responsibility for the day
to day management of the core activities of the project. The research activities were to be
implemented by the Institute for Agricultural Research (JAR) while the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) was to be the sole channel of credit for project activities.
4.    The early period of project implementation was plagued by weak project management and
poor inter-agency cooperation. This hampered progress particularly in the research and credit
programs. The physical implementation of the project was slow initially because of procurement
problems. As a result, only 38% of the total credit were disbursed by the end of June 1987 and the
closing date was extended four times from December 1987 to June 1992. In 1987, a new and more
energetic management team was appointed to the PIU, resulting in substantially improved project
management.
5.    At completion, the project had by and large achieved its physical targets. A total of 62 new
stations was constructed and 71 existing stations repaired. 110 km of access roads were built and 294



- iv -
km of link roads upgraded against appraisal estimates of 150 km and 300 km respectively. The
shortfalls are attributable to an appraisal over-estimate of the length of roads required. The
construction and equipping of the training school and staff houses were also completed, though with
delay. Because of disagreements between MCTD and IAR, the bulk of the research component was
canceled. The implementation of the institutional support component was substantially delayed due to
procurement and design problems. In the early years, AIDB extended working capital to the new
washing stations. After 1988, the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, which had a wider and more
efficient network, took over this function. Actual total project costs were estimated to be US$ 65.2
million, 14 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. This cost overrun was largely attributable to
the lengthy delays in project implementation and the resultant cost escalation due to inflation.
Project Results
6.    The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at about 9 percent, significantly lower
than the appraisal estimate because of three reasons. Firstly, the capacity utilization of the washing
plants was lower than projected because of a decline in coffee production caused by government's
policies on land collectivization, restrictions on coffee production and marketing, food shortages and
the rise of coffee berry disease. Between 1977-85, the coffee area in the main growing region
declined by 44 percent. This was aggravated by the acceleration of the civil war during the latter
years of the project. A second reason for the low rate of return was the slippage in the construction
program in the initial years, causing project benefits to start materializing two years later than
expected. Thirdly, because of delays in project implementation, actual project costs were higher than
expected.
7.    The issue of the price premium for red cherry was overtaken by events in the latter years of
the project. During the 1988/89 season, the quota system set up under the International Coffee
Organization collapsed, and international coffee prices fell. To avoid a sharp decline in farmers'
incomes, GOE reduced the surtax on coffee, bringing producer prices closer towards their fob
equivalents. Producer price premium was also favorably affected by the liberalization of coffee
marketing during the last two project years. Private traders were allowed to compete with the Service
Corporations in washing coffee and with the official marketing corporation in exporting it, and the
Addis Ababa coffee auction floor was re-opened. The introduction of competition boosted prices.
These far-reaching changes were exogenous to the project and were due mainly to the dialogue
between the Bank and Borrower regarding its overall economic as well as agricultural policies. But
the project can claim credit for having initially showed the way by highlighting the importance of
producer incentives.
Sustainability
8.    Sustainability of the project will depend on several factors including: (a) the management
capability of the service cooperations which operate the washing stations; (b) the institutional
arrangement for road maintenance; and (c) international coffee prices and producer prices for farmers.
Lessons Learned
9.    Several major lessons can be drawn from this review of project implementation:



(a)    given the unpredictability of Government economic policies at the time of project
design, the Bank was correct to be cautious and reduce almost by half the number of
new washing stations proposed by Government. However, this was contradicted by
the overly optimistic expectation that such a project could be completed in three years;
(b)    adequate attention should be paid towards crop production in a processing and
marketing project. In this case, producer pricing was seen as the key to stimulating
production. While this was appropriate, there were other factors such as the
Government's collectivization policy that affected coffee production;
(c)    whenever a project is implemented by more than one agency, adequate coordinating
mechanisms should be put in place together with incentives for the agencies to
cooperate (and overcome potentially divergent interests);
(d)    up-front training in IDA procurement procedures (eg. starting with a project launch
workshop) should be given to staff in the implementing agency if they do not have
prior familiarity with such procedures. Alternatively, some technical assistance in
procurement should be provided. Lack of procurement knowledge inevitably leads to
slippage in project implementation; and
(e)    providing equipment to reduce pollution is insufficient if not accompanied with
enforcement or incentives for the owners to operate it.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1429-FET)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name               Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project
Credit No.                 1429-ET
RVP Unit                   Africa
Country                    Ethiopia
Sector                     Agriculture
Sub-sector                 Coffee
Background
1.    Although agriculture constitutes only about half of Ethiopia's GDP, it employs over three-
quarters of the population and contributes over 90% of exports. Coffee is by far the most
important single crop contributing over half of agricultural GDP and up to three-quarters of total
export earnings when prices were favorable. Despite the collapse in international prices, coffee
remains a dominant export crop for the country. In 1981/82, production was estimated at
200,000 tons, of which 79,600 tons were exported in fulfillment of Ethiopia's International Coffee
Organization (ICO) quota. The remainder was assumed to have been consumed locally. Of total
exports, only some 11 percent was washed coffee, which enjoyed a substantial price premium
over unwashed coffee.
2.    IDA's first involvement in this subsector was the First Coffee Processing Project (CPP I)
implemented from 1972 to 1980. The objective was to accelerate the shift from low-value sun-
dried arabica coffees to high-value wet-processed (washed) arabicas. The project included the
construction of 100 new coffee washing stations and improvement to 100 existing ones. In 1974,
while the project was in progress, a revolution took place in Ethiopia. The Government enacted
reforms aimed at establishing a centralized economy. Land became public property and user
rights of up to 10 hectares were allocated to farmers. Companies were nationalized, including
foreign-owned enterprises. The reforms necessitated major changes in project design, particularly
organization and management. Although the turmoil slowed down implementation, project
objectives were by and large achieved with an economic rate of return of 20 percent.
3.    The Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project (SCPMP) was a follow-up to the
first project. It was identified in January 1978 by an IDA mission while supervising CPP I.
Background preparatory work was carried out by the staff of the Ministry of Coffee and Tea
Development (MCTD), and after several IDA preparatory assistance missions during which the
project design and contents were discussed with the Government of Ethiopia (GOE), the final
version of the preparation report was issued in July 1979. On the basis of that report the project
was appraised by IDA in April 1981. However, there were delays in completing project appraisal
because of international concern over the resolution of compensation claims for foreign assets
nationalized in 1975. In the meantime, several post-appraisal missions were mounted by IDA
between August 1981 and November 1983 to resolve project specific issues such as producer



- 2 -
prices and project organization and management. From the experience of CPP I, the Bank
considered price premium for washed coffee the key incentive to producer. However, since the
GOE was not willing to adjust prices up front, the Bank decided to reduce the project from 100
new washing stations to 60, leaving the rest to a second phase project. The project was approved
by the Board in December 1983 and the Credit became effective in August 1984 after a two
month delay.
4.    Complementing the processing and marketing project was the externally financed Coffee
Improvement Project that provided assistance on the agricultural production side. Its objective
was to improve yields of smallholder coffee growers through the strengthening of research and
extension, improvement of input supply and provision of better roads.
Project Objectives and Description
5.    Project Objectives. The primary objective of the project was to increase the country's
foreign exchange earnings by increasing the proportion of higher value washed coffee in total
coffee exports and by improving the quality of washed coffee. The project aimed, over a three
year period, to increase the share of high quality washed coffee from the then level of 11% to
around 30% of total coffee exports, thus enabling the country to increase it's export earnings
from coffee while at the same time remaining within the limits of the then ICO quota system.
6.    Project Description. To achieve the above objectives the project comprised the following
six components:
(i)   construction of 60 new and improvement of 72 existing washing stations;
(ii)   construction of 150 km new access roads and up-grading of 300 existing link
roads;
(iii)  provision of working capital finance to co-operatives;
(iv)   training, including the construction and equipping of a project training school;
(v)   trials to continue research activities started under CPP I and to include coffee
processing and waste research; and
(vi)  institutional support to MCTD including the construction of a mill and warehouse
for the Ethiopian Coffee Marketing Corporation (ECMC), a workshop, and the
acquisition of vehicles, equipment and furniture for the Ministry.
7.    Total project costs were estimated at US$57.2 million of which IDA would fund US$ 35
million or 61% of total financing requirements. GOE would provide US$19.4 million or 34% of
total costs while the remainder USS 0.8 million would come from the co-operatives. Taxes and
duties were estimated at US$2 million.
Project Design and Organization
8.    The project was generally well-designed and properly focused with conceptually clear
objectives. Although the project had too many components - some of them very small - this did



not cause any implementation problems because they complemented each other well. However,
given the past experience in implementing other Bank-assisted projects in the country, the
expected implementation rate of the project was overly optimistic. CPP I had taken 8 years to
implement (compared to 4 years estimated at appraisal) and other Bank-funded projects were
taking roughly the same length of time to complete. It was therefore unrealistic to expect a
project with complex organizational arrangements and substantial construction programs to be
executed in a period of only 3 years.
9.    During the final stages of CPP I, GOE decided to pay a fixed price premium, irrespective
of quality, for washed over unwashed coffee, thus removing the incentive for quality processing.
Also, the diversion of funds by cooperative management committees to the local administration
for the financing of development projects deprived farmers of the incentive to deliver fresh
cherries to the washing stations. As a result, capacity utilization of washing stations during the
CPP I project period never exceeded more than 50 percent. The Bank was fully aware of the
pitfalls from the time of project identification. Proper pricing was high on the agenda of project
issues to be resolved. After a two-week negotiation, the Government delegation agreed to a
covenant on the establishment of washed coffee premiums acceptable to IDA.
10.   One unforeseen consequence of the new government policies was the disincentive to
coffee production. A survey carried out by IAR in 1988 1/found that between 1977-85, the
coffee area in the main coffee growing region of Kefa declined by 44 percent. Coffee was
replaced by food crops for the following reasons: (a) a shortage of food; (b) the increasing price
of food relative to coffee; (c) the rise of coffee berry disease; (d) excessive restrictions on coffee
production and marketing activities; (e) excessive demands on farmers' time to work on collective
holdings; and (f) lack of secure land tenure as common holdings increased at the expense of
individual farms.
11.   Overall responsibility for project implementation was given to MCTD, specifically with
the office of the Permanent Secretary (later renamed Vice-Minister) which was also to coordinate
the activities of the various entities involved in the project. The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), recently renamed the Coffee Technology Development and Engineering Enterprise
(CTDEE)) of MCTD was given responsibility for the day to day management of the core
activities of the project including the supervision of the construction of washing stations and
roads, the combined coffee mill and warehouse, training school and workshop. The research
activities were to be implemented by the Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR) while the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) was to be the sole channel of credit for
project activities.
12.   The above organizational arrangements generally worked well. However, a more
stringent coordination mechanism between MCTD, IAR and AIDB should have been put in place.
A formal coordinating committee chaired by a senior official from a neutral ministry and
composed of high ranking officers from the three participating institutions should have been set up
to discuss project plans and progress at least on a quarterly basis. If such a mechanism had been
put in place, the problems which arose from lack of adequate co-operation between the MCTD
1/ Initial Results of Informal Survey, Coffee Producing Areas of Manna and Gomma Woredas,
Kefa Region, Working Paper No. 4/88, Institute of Agricultural Research, February 1988.



- 4 -
and the other two institutions, particularly in the early stages of the project, might have been
minimized.
13.   Project organization reflected the country situation. The project was initiated and
implemented when the country was pursuing the command economy model of development. The
project was therefore organized within that environment. Beyond farm level, there was no private
sector participation in the implementation of the project. Project implementing agencies were all
organs of the state such as the Service Cooperatives (SCs) in the case of operation of washing
stations and ECMC in the case of coffee milling and marketing. Since CPP I was successfully
implemented in this kind of economic environment, a follow on project based on the same
arrangement was seen to be justified. However, the Bank did not foresee the expansion of land
collectivization that began to seriously affect crop production in the 1980s (see para. 10).
Project Implernentation
14.   The credit became effective in August 1984, five months after the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was signed. GOE fulfilled all the conditions for credit effectiveness including
those relating to the subsidiary loan agreement between GOE and AIDB and the issuance of the
legal opinion and notices.
15.   The early period of project implementation was plagued by weak project management and
poor inter-agency cooperation. This hampered progress particularly in the research and credit
programs of the project. Launching of the AIDB component was difficult since the agency was
not involved in project negotiations and start up. It took a long time to conclude loan agreements
with the cooperatives. Project management improved after 1985 when monthly telex reporting
and consultation with the Bank's Nairobi office was introduced. This ensured that work programs
and budgets were adhered to. In 1987, a new and more energetic management team was
appointed to the PIU with the result that project management improved substantially.
16.   The physical implementation of the project was slow initially because of procurement
problems. The PIU, which had implemented the first project, had a significant staff turnover.
The new staff's lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures resulted in delays in the
preparation and tendering of documents for the construction programme. Furthermore, a lengthy
dispute arose with one of the bidders for the construction of the coffee milling and warehousing
facility and the contract had to be re-tendered.
17.   Because of the above implementation bottlenecks and delays, only SDR 12.6 million or
38% of the total Credit were disbursed by the end of June 1987 (see Table 3). As this was only
6 months before the scheduled closure of the Credit, it was clear that the project could not attain
its targets by that date. GOE and the Bank therefore agreed to extend the project by one year,
and later by another three and a half years to June 1992. The closing date was extended four
times.
18.   Actual total project costs are estimated to be US$ 65.2 million or 14% higher than the
appraisal estimate. This cost overrun is largely attributable to the lengthy delays in starting and
completing project activities and the resultant cost escalation due to inflation and the sharp decline
in the value of the dollar against other major currencies in which the project procured supplies.
About SDR 0.1 million of the IDA Credit was cancelled. The physical results of the project are



set out in Table 5 while the economic and other institutional support results are summarized in
Table 6. The individual components were implemented as follows:
19.   Washing Stations. There were delays in commencing actual construction work largely
because of PIU delays in document preparation and tendering. The construction companies also
experienced shortages of building materials and labor. As a result of the construction delays,
none of the washing stations planned for the 1984/85 season were yet operational by the end of
1985. The situation gradually improved as PIU got more proficient in procurement and
contractors obtained better equipment and more labor. By the beginning of the 1987/88 coffee
season, 34 new stations or 57% of the SAR target had been constructed and were operational
while improvements had been done on 37 existing stations as against an SAR total of 72 stations.
Progress was more rapid following the appointment of a new management team at PIU. During
the 1988/89 crop season, another 19 new washing stations came on stream while a further 34
stations were improved. In total, 71 existing stations were repaired compared to an SAR target of
72. The new washing stations construction programme as indicated in the SAR was completed in
1989/90 when seven more stations became operational. Two additional stations were constructed,
thus bringing to 62 the total number of project-financed new washing stations.
20.    The quality of the construction was of a high standard and the washing stations were
fitted with facilities to improve their reticulation system. However, although the PIU design for
pulp separation was technically satisfactory, serious environmental hazards arose because many
washing stations were reluctant to use their recirculation equipment due to its high operating cost.
As a result, pulp and affluent polluted nearby rivers. A follow on project, the Peasant Coffee
Processing Project proposed for Bank financing would address this issue through enforcement and
incentives.
21.   Roads. The roads construction activities experienced the same difficulties as those
outlined above. Because of these problems and the lack of adequate and suitable equipment for
compacting, construction progress was initially slow. By the beginning of the 1987/88 crop
season, well after the original project completion deadline, only 43% of the roads programme was
completed. Construction progress was more rapid in the following two years when the PIU was
transformed into CTDEE, a self-financing enterprise carrying out construction on a commercial
basis. It became active in performing actual construction work and relied less on private and
government-owned contracting firms which had performed poorly. Appropriate construction
equipment was acquired and the supply of materials improved. Therefore by the beginning of the
1990/91 crop season, 90% of the road construction program was complete. The project
constructed 110 km of access roads as against an appraisal estimate of 150 km. The shortfall of
40 km is attributable to an appraisal over-estimate of the length of roads required. Otherwise the
required access roads to all the stations were constructed. The project also up-graded 294 km of
link roads, close to the SAR estimate of 300 km. The quality of the roads constructed was good
although they tended to be over-designed and expensive.
22.   While the construction standards of the roads were high, the institutional arrangements for
the sustained maintenance of the roads as stipulated in the DCA did not materialize. Towards the
end of the project, the roads were beginning to deteriorate. In order to prevent their falling into
an unserviceable state, IDA exceptionally approved disbursement of SDR 0.45 million from the
Credit for the maintenance of about 55 km of rehabilitated roads.



- 6 -
23.   Assistance to Cooperatives. In the early years, AIDB extended working capital to the
new washing stations established by the project. However, after 1988, the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia (CBE) was also allowed to give working capital loans to the SCs for washing coffee.
Since CBE had a wider network than AIDB, was perceived to be more efficient and was also
banker to the SCs, most of the cooperatives began getting working capital loans from CBE and
defaulted on their borrowing from AIDB. As a result, AIDB stopped giving working capital loans
to SCs after the 1988/89 coffee season.
24.   Training. The construction and equipping of the project training school and staff houses
at Goma were completed late because of the procurement and construction delays alluded to
earlier. There were also problems in locally obtaining some of the essential materials for
electrical and water installation. The overseas training of staff in the Coffee Liquoring Unit
(CLU) proceeded well.
25.   Trials. There were disagreements between MCTD and IAR about the implementation of
the research component particularly on whether the trials should be carried out by IAR or by
MCTD. Because of these disagreements, the bulk of the component was cancelled and only about
20% of the allocated funds were used, mainly for salaries and wages and for the purchase of
vehicles. The pulp breakdown pit and the press board plant required for coffee processing and
wastage utilization research were never acquired. IAR did some coffee agronomic research trials
in areas like pruning, tree density, forest coffee rejuvenation, inter-cropping and fertilizer use.
However, trials on coffee processing and waste utilization were not done.
26.   Institutional Support to MCTD. The major investments under this component were the
construction of the combined mill and warehouse for ECMC and a workshop. The start of
construction work of the mill and warehouse was substantially delayed because of procurement
delays referred to in para. 16 above and by disagreements about pre-qualification of some bids.
The commissioning of the mill was further delayed till 1991 because of some design and
construction faults which GOE insisted to the contractors to correct. The construction of the
workshop and the acquisition of vehicles, furniture and equipment for the PIU and the
Development and Planning departments of the ministry were generally smooth. A total of 16
vehicles were bought for the Planning units of MCTD (SAR estimate 14 vehicles). The
PIU/CTDEE acquired 29 vehicles vis-a-vis an SAR provision of 14 vehicles. However, some
eight vehicles including a bus, six dump trucks and a dozer disappeared in transit at the port of
Assab on their way to Addis Ababa in 1991 during the civil strife. The consultants stipulated by
the project were promptly hired.
Project Results and Impact
27.   Red Cherry Producer Price Reforms. One of the aims of the project was to reduce the
taxation of coffee farmers and thus enable them to get an improved farmgate price. In 1984,
farmers were receiving EB 0.40 per kg for cherry. This represented between 50% and 60% of
the fob price. The remainder went to the Government and to ECMC for marketing costs. Some
progress was made soon after the project started. In late 1984, GOE increased the first payment
for red cherry by 12.5% to EB 0.45 per kg. A second payment of EB 0.20 - 0.25 was to be paid
after the SCs sold the washed coffee but in reality the farmers never received this payment. In
1986, MCTD prepared a proposal to adjust red cherry prices to reflect the international price
differential of washed coffee. The proposal was not supported by the higher ranks of
Government. The price of red cherry remained at EB 0.45 till the 1991/92 season when it was



- 7 -
increased to EB 0.50 per kg. The farmers were also entitled to a second payment reflecting 60%
of the net surplus of the respective SCs. They were then receiving what was equivalent to 50 -
60% of the fob value.
28.   The issue of the price premium for red cherry was overtaken by events in the latter years
of the project. During the 1988/89 season, the quota system set up under the International Coffee
Organization collapsed, and international coffee prices fell. To avoid a sharp decline in farmers'
incomes, GOE reduced the surtax on coffee (EB 100 per ton in mid-1992 vis a vis EB 1810 per
ton in 1983). Producer prices were however left at their former level of EB 0.45 per kg
throughout this period which meant that they moved closer towards their fob equivalents. In fact
GOE had to subsidize the producer price to keep it at the EB 0.45 per kg level. The issue of
producer price premium was also favorably affected by the liberalization of coffee marketing in
the last two years. Private traders were allowed to compete with the SCs in washing coffee and
with the ECMC in exporting it. Secondly, the Addis Ababa coffee auction floor was re-opened
and washed coffee allowed to be sold there. The introduction of competition boosted prices (see
Annex 4). The impact on producers is yet to be seen but it is reasonable to assume that as the
system gets more competitive, producers would benefit from the higher prices. These far-
reaching changes were exogenous to the project and were due mainly to the dialogue between the
Bank and Borrower regarding its overall economic as well as agricultural policies. But the
project can claim credit for having initially showed the way by highlighting the importance of
producer incentives.
29.   Economic Rate of Return. The main economic benefits of the project were expected to
accrue from increased volumes of washed coffee and the price premium it would fetch in the
international markets. While the latter was largely achieved, the former had been elusive because
of the decline in coffee production and the civil strife during the latter years of implementation.
As a result, deliveries of red cherries were reduced, hampering the operational efficiency of the
washing stations. Their average capacity utilization ranged only between 62% and 79% (see
Annex 3) as against an estimate of 85% stipulated in the Credit Agreement. In 1991, project
benefits suffered a further setback when 15 of the washing stations of the project were destroyed
as the civil strife climaxed. It is expected that these will all be repaired and operational within the
next two years.
30.   Assuming that all the project-financed washing stations will be operational within the next
two years and that a peaceful environment and price incentives would increase the supply of red
cherries, it is reasonable to assume that the capacity utilization of the washing stations will
quickly improve to between 75 and 85%. An economic analysis was therefore carried out at two
levels assuming these two capacities (see Annexes 1-a and 1-b). The analysis was carried out
over a period of 30 years, the assumed economic life of the plant buildings. The resultant
economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 8.7% if capacity utilization of 75% is attained in
the next year and maintained thereafter. On the other hand, if capacity utilization increases and
remains at 85%, the ERR will improve marginally to 9.2%. These rates of return are both
significantly lower than the appraisal estimate because of three main reasons. First, the SAR
estimated the washing plants to achieve a capacity utilization of 95%. In reality, this was not
attained, the highest utilization to-date being only 79% which was achieved in the 1987/88 season
(see Annex 3). Secondly, due to slippages in the construction programme in the initial years,
project benefits started to materialize two years later than expected. Thirdly, because of delays in
project implementation, actual project costs were higher than expected. Finally, it can even be



-8-
argued that these ERRs are optimistic in the light of the institutional issues affecting sustainability
(see below).
Sustainability
31.   The SCs which own and manage the washing stations constructed or up-graded by the
project lack professional management skills. This, coupled with the uncertain future of many SCs
under the changed political and economic climate has resulted in poor maintenance of the plants.
Unless the washing stations are operated and maintained by competent management, the stations
would not last their full economic life and their operations would in the meantime remain sub-
optimal.
32.   The roads constructed by the project face serious maintenance problems and some are
already in a state of disrepair. Under the Credit Agreement, the then Ethiopian Transport
Construction Authority, recently renamed the Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) ,was to take over
and maintain all the link roads improved by the project. However to-date, inspite of numerous
efforts by MCTD/CTDEE to hand over the roads, ERA has refused to accept them pleading lack
of physical and financial capacity. The access roads constructed by the project were to be
maintained by the SCs but so far they too shunned that responsibility. The uncertain future of the
SCs also makes it imperative that a more institutionally permanent arrangement be worked out.
Perhaps consideration can be given to levying a small charge on all coffee sales and the money so
collected handed to the local awrajas to organize for the maintenance of the roads in their area.
33.   During the takeover of Addis Ababa in 1991, the combined coffee mill and warehouse
suffered damages estimated to cost US$0.8 million. Repair work needs to be done urgently. In
the longer term, ECMC expressed fears that the facility would become a white elephant.
Following the liberalization of coffee marketing, a substantial portion of the washed coffee will go
through private traders, thus leaving ECMC with unused capacity at the mill. This, however, can
be avoided if ECMC agrees with the private traders to process and store their coffee for a fee.
34.   Finally, the economic utilization of the washing stations will depend on the continued
availability of adequate quantities of red cherries. This will largely depend on international coffee
prices and whether farmers get good prices for cherries.
Bank Performancee
35.   The decision by the Bank to support SCPMP was correct given the importance of the
coffee crop in the Ethiopian economy. The SAR was well-prepared and focused adequately on
the issues involved, particularly the pricing issue. However, the Bank failed to realistically
estimate the period that would be taken to implement a complex project involving several
agencies. It also did not foresee the effect of the nationalization of coffee production, which led
to its decline (see para. 10).
36.   As shown in Table 8, thirteen supervision missions visited the country during the project's
life to monitor implementation progress, often by the same staff to ensure continuity. The
missions were instrumental in the appointment of a strong management team following the first
few years of floundering. Although the engineering aspects of the project were actively
supervised, the research aspects did not seem to have had as much attention. Overall the
implementing agencies agreed that the supervision missions contributed substantially to the
progress of the project.



-9 -
Borrower Performance
37.   Performance of the implementing agencies responsible for the project was generally good.
The lengthy delays in civil works was largely due to the implementing agency's lack of familiarity
with IDA procurement procedures. As shown in Table 7, the borrower complied with all the
major covenants of the project except that relating to the transfer of roads to ETCA/ERA. Also
there was only partial compliance with the covenant relating to record keeping and audits.
Whereas PIU/CTDEE's record keeping and reporting were exemplary, those of ECMC and AIDB
were in arrears most of the time.
38.   PIU/CTDEE did a commendable job. Although in the early years of the project they
tended to concentrate on the engineering aspects of the project, their performance improved later
when a new management team was put in place. Their engineering staff competently supervised
and in some cases implemented the infrastructural aspects of the project while the finance and
economics departments meticulously maintained project data. The finance department had
established a comprehensive computerized project recording and reporting system.
39.   However, performance of the national authorities responsible for setting the "enabling
environment" for the project was poor.
Project Relationships
40.   The Bank and the borrower enjoyed good relationships throughout the implementation of
this project. Close cooperation was maintained and both parties were willing to accommodate the
other's wishes whenever changes in the operation or life span of the project were necessary.
Studies and Consultancies
41.   A list of the studies and consultancies planned and implemented by the project are set out
in Table 6.
42.   The project was expected to carry out three studies; all were completed. However their
impact has been varied. The study on Methods of Collecting, Processing and Transportation of
Coffee made some useful recommendations but these could not be implemented due to the
changed political situation and the conversion to a centralized system. The results from the
Updating of the Coffee Sample Survey were utilized in the preparation of the Phase III project,
which was prepared but shelved because of political uncertainties. With the end of the civil war,
the Bank is again considering financing of the Peasant Coffee Processing Project which would
include assistance to both production and processing.
43.   The project funded the services of various internationally recruited consultants to carry
out the studies referred to above. It also hired a Chief Liquorer for CLU. A Workshop
Manager, Sanitary Engineer and an Architect were locally recruited. An Electrical Engineer and
Designers were not recruited because PIU/CTDEE already had adequate in-house expertise in
those areas. All the consultants satisfactorily completed their assignments and their input was
found useful.



- 10-
Project Documentation and Data
44.   The Credit Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreements were well-understood by all the
parties concerned. However the loan agreements between AIDB and the SCs did not stipulate that
the latter would be responsible for the maintenance of access roads built by the project. This was
a mistake as the SCs later did not feel bound to look after the roads although this was clearly in
their interests.
45.   The SAR was of good quality and was useful in monitoring and evaluating project
progress. At PIU/CTDEE, systems were put in place to document and monitor project progress at
all stages in physical and financial terms. However, project documentation at AIDB was not
maintained up-to-date all the time.
Lessons Leared
46.   Several major lessons can be drawn from this review of project implementation:
(a)    given the unpredictability of Government economic policies at the time of project
design, the Bank was correct to be cautious and reduce almost by half the number
of new washing stations proposed by Government. However, this was
contradicted by the overly optimistic expectation that such a project could be
completed in three years;
(b)   adequate attention should be paid towards crop production in a processing and
marketing project. In this case, producer pricing was seen as the key to
stimulating production. While this was appropriate, there were other factors such
as the Government's collectivization policy that affected coffee production;
(c)    whenever a project is implemented by more than one agency, adequate
coordinating mechanisms should be put in place together with incentives for the
agencies to cooperate (and overcome potentially divergent interests);
(d)    up-front training in IDA procurement procedures (eg. starting with a project
launch workshop) should be given to staff in the implementing agency if they do
not have prior familiarity with such procedures. Alternatively, some technical
assistance in procurement should be provided. Lack of procurement knowledge
inevitably leads to slippage in project implementation; and
(e)    providing equipment to reduce pollution is insufficient if not accompanied with
enforcement or incentives for the owners to operate it.



- 11 -
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The comments of GOE on the contents of this PCR have not yet been received.



- 12 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan or    Year of                  Tide/Purpose                  Amount        Status
Credit No.  Approval                                             (US$ million)
- Cr 603-ET     1976   Rangelands Development                          27.0      Completed
- Cr 708-ET     1977   Road Sector                                     32.0      Completed
- Cr 789-ET     1978   Grain Storage and Marketing                     24.0      Completed
- Cr 1088-ET    1981   Agricultural Minimum Package II                 39.2      Completed
- Cr 1275-ET    1982   Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank    30.0      Completed
- Cr 1404-ET    1983   Second Road Sector                              70.0      On-going
- Cr 1521-ET    1984   Agricultural Research                           22.0      On-going
- Cr 1722-ET    1986   Forestry                                        62.0      On-going
- Cr 1765-ET    1987   Small-Scale Irrigation and Construction          7.0      On-going
- Cr 1782-ET    1987   Fourth Livestock                                39.0      On-going
- Cr 1956-ET    1989   PADEP I                                         85.0      On-going



- 13 -
Table 2. Project Timnetable
Activity             Date Planned           Date Revised            Actual Date
- Identification         -                       -                   January 1978
- Preparation            -                       -                   July 1979
- Appraisal              -                       -                   April 1981
- Post-Appraisal         -                       -                   November 1982
- Negotiations         September 1983         October 1983           October 1983
- Board Approval      December 1983              -                   December 20, 1983
- Credit Signature    March 1984                 -                   March 23, 1984
- Credit Effectiveness   June 1984            August 1984            August 2, 1984
- Credit Closing      December 31, 1987       December 1988
December 1989
December 1990
December 1991
June 1992              June 30, 1992
- Credit Completion   June 30, 1987                                  December 1991
Table 3. Ctunulative Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                     1984 1985 1986 1987 1988  1989   1990   1991  1992_/
Appraisal Estimate (SDR million)     0.9  10.4  20.8  32.7  33.2    -      -       -
Actual (SDR million)_/                0    1.1  5.1  12.6  19.9  26.4   28.9   31.9   33.1
Actual as % of Estimate               0    11   25   39   60   n.a.4/  n.a.   n.a.   n.a.
2/  Includes estimaed SDR 0.8 million yet to be disbursed.
1/ Per WB disbursement records.
4/ n.a. = Not applicable since no disburwement were originally planned for these periods.



- 14 -
Table 4. Physical Implementation Indicators
Component Detail s              Unit  Planned/| Actual  Varianca/           Comments
Washing Stations:
- New stations constructed     no.       60        62       + 2
(lst Phase)
(2nd Pbase)                  no.       40         0        - 40    Cancelled
- Stations improved            no.       72        71       - 1
Rural Roads:
- New roads constructed (Access   km    150       110       - 40     Appraisal over-estimate
Roads)
- Roads upgraded (Link Roads)    km     300       294       - 6      Appraisal over-estimate
Training:
- Training school constructed  no.        1         1
- Staff houses constructed     no.        2        2
Trials:
- Liquoring equipment          no.        1         1
- Vehicles                     no.       -          1       +  I
- Motorcycles                  no.        5         5
- Pulp breakdown pit           no.        1        0        - 1      Cancelled
- Press board plant            no.        1        0        - 1      Cancelled
MCDT:
- Vehicles                     no.       14        16       +  2
Coffee Marketing Corporation
(CMC):
- Combined mill/warehouse      no.        1         1
Project Implenentation Unit
(PIU/CTDEE):
- Vehicles                     no.       14        29       + 15    8 vehicles disappeared
in transit at Assab Port
- Workshop                     no.        1         1
I/ As per Staff Appraisal Report of 30 November 1983.
i/  Thc differen betwen pnned and  a.



- 15 -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(USS million)
Component                   Appraisal Estimate7/                   ActualA/
LIocl    Foreign      Total     L        Ial2/    oTo
Washing Stations        10.6       2.0        12.6        4.2         10.7       14.9
Roads                    3.7       3.3         7.0        4.2         5.2         9.4
Assistance to Co-        5.6        -          5.6        9.4          -          9.4
operatives
Training                 0.7       0.7         1.4        0.3         1.2         1.5
Trials                   0.3       0.1         0.4        0.1          -          0.1
Ministry of Coffee and  11.5       6.0        17.5        9.1        20.8        29.9
the Development
Total Baseline Costs    32.4     12.1       44.5       27.3        37.9        65.2
Contingencies            9.8       2.9        12.7         -           -
Total Costs           42.2       15.0       57.2        27.3       37.9        65.2
7/ Per SAR.
I/  Includes Contingenies.
2/  Per MCTD (CTDEE) ad AIDB.
J0/ Per WB records and MCTD.



- 16 -
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financer                                         Plannedil/            Revised            Actual121
IDA
Category:
- Civil Works                                      25.1                21.8                26.6
- Vehicles, Machinery and Equipment                 2.8                 9.4                10.9
- Consultants, Studies and Training                 2.8                 3.3                 4.2
- Refunding of Project Preparation                  0.7                 0.5                 0.5
- Unallocated                                       3.6                  -                   -
Total IDA                                         35.0                35.0                42.2
Goverrment of EthiopiaL/                            21.4                                     13.4
Service Co-operatives                                 0.8                                     0.8
AEDBI4/                                                -                                      8.8
Total                                             55.2                                    65.2
Source: WB and MCTD (CTDEE).
ii/ Per Credit Agreement and SAR.
12/ Includes SDR 0.8 million estimated disbursements to be ma&d from IDA credit.
II/ Includes taxes and duties, which were estimated at USS2.0 million at apprisal. The actual amount of taxes and
duties cannot be estimated.
1_4/ Consituted of working capital loans to the SC and own funds lent for civil works since IDA re-imbured only 35 %
of total requirements.



- 17 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Economic Inpact
Appraisal Estimate |     PCR Estimate
I  I    (%)                      ()
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                        14               9 (See Annex 1)
B. Studies
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                    Status             Inpact of Study
1. Study methods of Collecting, Processing and   Completed     Negligible. Recommendations
Transportation of Coffee                                     not implemented largely due to
changed political and economic
situation.
2. Updating of the Coffee Sample Survey          Completed     Utilized in preparation of Phase
m Project.
3. Preparation of the eventual Phase II Project  Completed     Project pending.
C. Consultancies
Tide/Discipline          Estimated Duration   Actual Duration   Comments and Development
(man/months)       (man/months)               Impact
International:
1. Various (for Study 1          36                  10        As in B (1) above.
above)
2. Chief Liquorer                36                  24        Carried out. Provided local
training and arranged overseas
training.
3. Workshop Manager              12                   0        Never recruitod. Hired a local
Workshop Manager.
Locally Recruited:
1. Sanitary Engineer           n.a.lSt               36        Satisfactorily completed
assignment.
2. Electrical Engineer          n.a.                  0        P.I.U. had own electricians.
3. Architect                    n.a.                 60        Satisfactory. Has been retained
on permanent staff of P.I.U.
4. Designers                    n.a.                  0         P.I.U. had own designers.
151 n.a. = Asignment duration riot specified in the SAR.



- 18 -
Table 7. Status of Major Covenants
Cr. Agremed                               Subject                               Status                  Comment
Section
3.01        The Borrower shall carry out or cause the Project to be       Complied
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
economic, engineering and agricultural practices and shall
provide or cauae to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
3.02 (a)     The Borrower and AIDB shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan      Complied
Agreement on termn nd conditions acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association for relending such amount of
the Credit as may be allocated from time to time for the
carrying out of Parts A (a), A (b) and C of the Project.
3.02 (c)     The Borrower shall make available to ECMC in form of a        Complied
capital contribution such amount of the Credit as may be
allocated from time to time for the carrying out of Part B of
the Project.
3.02 (d)     The Borrower shall make available to LAR in forn of a grant   Complied      However as the major part of the
such amount of the Credit as may be allocated from time to                 planned program was cancelled,
time for the carrying out of Part D of the Project.                        only about 19% of the available
funds were utilized.
3.03        In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Complied
Borrower shall employ consultsnts and appoint key staff to the
PIll and Extension Division of MCTD.
3.04 (b)     The Borrower shall cause all goods and ervices financed out   Complied      However, everal of the PIU
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the               vehicles have recently been
purposes of the Project.                                                   'borrowed' by the Ministry. It is
not clear if and when they will be
returned to exclusive PIU use.
3.05 (a)     The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon  Complied
their preparation, the plans, pecification, contract documents  although initially
and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,   there were
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in  delays in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.  preparing and
submitting
tender
documents
3.05 (b)     The Borrower shall cause MCTD, AIDB and UAR to: (i)           Complied
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progreu of the parts of the Project carried out by
each of them; (ii) enable the Asociation's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project; and (iii) furnish to the Association semiannual
progreu reports conuining all such information as the
Asociation shall reasonably request concerning the Project.



- 19 -
Cr. Agremnent                             Subject                               Status                  Comments
section
3.06        The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action  Complied
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
l ________    Project.
3.07        In determining the premiums payable to farmers and        Complied in      The need for the Committee was
cooperatives for washed coffee in each crop season, the   early stages of   overtaken by events. The world
Borrower shall: (i) maintain its Washed Coffee Steering   the Project.     prices of coffee collapsed and
Committee under the Chairmanship of the Permanent                          effectively wiped away any
Secretary of MCTD; CiH) cause such Committee to meet at                    premium that would have been paid
least once a year, and to submit to the Borrower not later than           to the producers. Recently the
June 30 of each such year, proposals regarding premiums                    marketing of washed coffee has
payable to producers.                                                      been liberalized thus eliminating the
need for price fixing.
3.09        The Borrower shall cause the Ethiopian Transport            Not complied   PlU/CTDEE's efforts to transfer to
Conatruction Authority (ETCA) to take over and maintain all     with       ETCA/ERA the completed link
roads being constructed under Part A (d) of the Project.                   roads have so far failed, raising
fears about the future maintenance
of these roads.
3.12        The Borrower shall take all necessary measures (including,  Not achieved   Capacity utilization has vaned
without limitation, adjustments of the premiums payable to                 between 62 and 799.
cooperatives for different qualities of washed coffee) to ensure
that all the washing stations financed by the Association shall
maintain a capacity utilization rate of not less than 85 percent. 
3.13        In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that all    Not complied   Lack of an effective coordination
matters relating to the implementation of the Project shall be             mechanism was a main drawback to
coordinated through the Office of the Pernanent Secretary,                 the project.
MTCD.
4.01        The Borrower shall cause PIU, ECMC LR and AIDB: (a) to        Partial     Whereas PlU/CTDEE's record
maintain separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in  compliance    keeping and reporting, particularly
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate                       in the latter years of the project,
accounting practices its operations and financial condition; (b)           were exemplary, ECMC and AIDB
to have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets            financial records and audits were in
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for              arrears most of the time. The
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate                   ECMC situation has lately
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent                  improved.
auditors acceptable to the Association; (c) to furnish to the
Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, certified
copies and audit reports of their financial statements for such
year. 



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Proj. Cycle    1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
Preparation     6.1  11.4 10.8       0.1 34.7  1.7  9.6  8.4  1.6  5.2
Appraisal                 39.8             1.9      43.8 44.8 33.4
Negotiation                                                         11.5
Supervision                                                          5.3  19.9  40 24.2  17.5  8.1  19.5 18.8  7.5  0.5
PCR                                                                                                            6.4  1.6
Total           6.1  11.4 50.6    0  0.1  36.6  1.7 53.4 53.2  35   22 19.9  40 24.2  17.5  8.1  19.5 18.8 13.9  2.1
0



- 21 -
B. Missions
Stage of Project    Month/year  No. of   Weeks   Specialization   Performance   Types of
Cyde                              Persons  in Field  Representedl6/   Rating&!/  Problemsl8/
. Identification        1/78         2         2           A.E
.Prepamation 1          7/78         1         2            A
. Preparation 2         4/79         1         2            A
. Appraisal             4/81         6         4      A,E,B,F,P,D
. Post-appraisal 1      8/81         3         3          A,E,P
. Post-appraisal 2      11/82        3         2          F,B,S
. Post-appraisal 3      1/83         2         2           F,I
. Supervision 1         4/84         3         1          A,F,P             1            F
. Supervision 2         9/84         4         1         A,F,S,P           2           M,C
. Supervision 3         4/85         4         2        F,B,P,M            2           M,O
. Supervision 4         10185        3         2          F,B,J            3           M,P
. Supervision 5         1/86         3        1.5         F,S,B            3           P,C
. Supervision 6         5/86         3         2          F,S,B            3            M
. Supervision 7         11/86        3         2          F,B,J            3          P,C,M
. Supervision 8         4/87         4         2          F,B,J             3          C,M
. Supervision 9         10/87        2         2           F,J             2            C,F
. Supervision 10        3/88         2         2           F,B             2             C
. Supervision 11        11/88        2         3          F,B,J             2            0
. Supervision 12        6/90         4         1         E,J,P,M            2            0
. Supervision 13        5/92         1         2            J               1            0
. Project Completion    5/92         1         2            F
16/ A = Agriculturist; B = Architect; D = Data Procesing; E = Economist; F = Finamcial; I = Institutions; J =
Engineering; M = Marketing; P = Processing; S = Procuremrent.
17/ 1 = Minor problem; 2 = Moderate problems; 3  Major prmblemis.
18/ F = Finamcial; M = Managerial; C = Construction; 0 = Other, P = Procurement.



LU   4,
Z m
c -
l.00cr                 1661
1It 119$                 1041
In 959S                   06041
II 90                  6096
GM 01                  01,11
zIe~~~~~~~~W'0  6O o**(6 e oo q o01*A zn o  *4 *15  v-05  000*5010 q  u Oluv ornDld*pu0.Dw 90_          00P01
"D-  -_      "' -I:C6    u..A d, III,,9-*..m O J      pDd  +o Pq  A
0*0-   19)  0666   -)410014.10w   010 -               0049619  0009   616,0..00-P 0110*.0    I-ud "51.950* I5) P-1  -                        P1959A01.  -119 IlOp 1.0g0 .0I9*0l   p.49             ..1      Is. 0911I
.61100*.Ot   ~~ 000*00 Opooren.a.q 9000. se.o-  001..,    onl'oco- 04C   0110*91   ni^in oolo o14   v      0vl 00IOOoopo"ooo Ou0 u.,us..oO...,lo 6)    qsootoo.ooo 5.01  .000.t00
0 -                  164W
W G .  I                1u4 1I
00                         ww 1  sees    o3iuD- o~ 
w1.0 do. 0W60*4*61 ,1uor0d9 I 10011*4004 1
, ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ 5,                                     e,   .uhj .1 110390.
0 00t     *0         91          10 DE 0      e                    t       IC00  61t0  0  .00 09100        *10        S. It0I6 1400  1       50 o1               9 11I0t 0Si 90                   000        000                               ISoD  LI, 111 iN 1 IN
It ft      zc t      't Cc      Ir cc       r cc     *r cc      *r IC      et         .4 11 s        cc    Iz *rIt    Me    O     C O  Ea   S9 zt      I1 It     of cc       $t me e. W1          0 0        00 oDw0
0001  0001  W.01  W001       000*       0001       0001      0001       0001       0001       000M       0001      0001       00Mo, W    Os          01        00S        009        000        000                          * 1Wv0   -IS 6..-N
*tst      Iet cc      rc         rcz       letz      *rz CZ        t Iz     e CZw .1  z  11                 ell       660rE       Mt,       S9 -z      19 'z     Si GE      l1          nitS      W00        0v0 0|O ...D                               AI -"-S
sit]rA IN JR *11112OSSI
0- 01    oQ9?I       O. O'      oc l       O, I                 DO I 06         I      0, 6     09 6       01 6        O0 9      s6  I        rE       el .?      S. 19     66 Zs      t- ri       S Is      Wo 0                                   Io
o,lI        10 Il       t I    01         01      O, I        101      011        O01      01 I       O, I       *0 9       01 S       $01         Ol *0    C S        CZ 1       It         00 0       000                             0    09         6016$
M t        Ms        oo W       O, o           oo     ozo       o oS       oo         oe         Q 0Q 00v0 c .    Wt             S9 I-       9S        ?94 rSl     t9        IIe 1-    S tt       9-e        00W0                               -.3 .A .d-D  -.
0901      09 W       001 0I0W              O v D      00                           0 W 0  000      0        00          0        00   0       0         (9         0 a901         GE    se 0      $9 Ss      o00                   --01S 6~.m I - --I-
01        01         91         II         *I         S,         .1         i         Cl         II        oI         a          S          '          9         0          *          t          r          I
IShotI - a  11
S",SA "IJ *t"OUOD I
151.0I JI0 1   01*  1,1
03 'O040611 1WINl 009 O551 ,,00Hd 4J110309 Q0IcIO
f0l1*00l1]



we,
Z tm
Z m
cl
*C 0s     * Sz     *@ cc     V9 cc     PI IC     pi se        9a te       St    s SC        SC                          (I SO 3) II A 3h Jo I in
5*c0      0051ss    *tt *S      t       . 0  000  050  0L$  ost        , os      , tsl     , oss                         (iSol3u031
Ws                                                                                            -4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A I,P-..U
0001      00MO      0000      OD        0000      00        0000      00        0000      0000        0        0l O" O                    1Ot -61
Prcc      ICcc      r CZs        PCs ccs    re C  t c       Pre CZ    Pr cc     tc cc     P                             m0p '. A e    *w-~-'   "5
SiO N A 0 IIOIDOSSV
000i      000j      000a      Oll       050       000       o 050     0          f 00    0et                                  90.I
of        O,        Os A       @ at I    tI       Ot I       W         O A      O   t I    ,                                sots3"Id
of        0 "a      o05       Osa 00    0         ot0       ooo       ozo      0o0 0o 0o                                      50 | O .,dao
000       0       0       000       000       000       000       000       000       000                               50355d0-FA 505OU
0SO50 TVOII5 15O0
00        00        00        00        00 0       0        00 M   O       00             5 o0  c0              ,PS



Present Vatues of met Streas at a Discount Rate of 13.51
II   LP 10X   UP 20X   UP 501 DO* 1OX DOUN 201 DOW 501
C1    -46.7    -30.1    -13.4       36.6    -63.4    -80.1   -130.1
Up lO    -68.1    -51.4    -34.7       15.3    -84.7   -101.4   -151.4
UP 20X    -89.4    -72. 7    -56.1     -6.1   -106.1   -122.7   -172.7
UP 501   -153.4   -136.8   -120.1    -70.1   -170.1   -186.8   -236.8
DOUI 101    -25.4      -8.7      8.0      58.0    -42.0    -58.7   -108.7
DON 20X     -4.0      12.6     29.3      79.3    -20.7    -37.4    -87.4
DOWN 50     60.0      76.6     93.3    143.3      43.3      26.6    -23.4
SI    LAG I    LAG 2    LAG 3
C1    -46.7    -66.5    -84.0    -99.4
UP 101    -68.1    -87.9   -105.4   -120.7
UP 201    -89.4   -109.2   -126.7   -142.1
Up SOX   -153.4   -173.2   -190.7   -206.1
DOWN 101    -25.4    -45.2    -62.7    -78.1
DOWN 20X     -4.0    -23.9    -41.3    -56.7
DOWN SO     60.0      40.2     22.7       7.3
LAG 1        -    -41.2    -58.6    -74.0                                                                                                                          1
LAG 2        *    -         -36.3    -51.7                                                                                                                        ^;
LAG 3        -         -        -    -32.0                                                                                                                        4>
Internat Rates of Returns of Net Streams
BI    W lOX    UP 20X   UPSOX 0DOWN 101 DOWN 20X DO NSOX
C1    8.685    10.422   12.133   17.258    6.900    5.035   -1.787
UP 101    7.065     8.685   10.265   14.919    5.382    3.599   -3.198
UP 201    5.668     7.202    8.685    12.984    4.057    2.329   -4.554
UP 501    2.329     3.722    5.035    8.685    0.821   -0.857   -8.706
D0O1  101   10.613    12.512    14.403   20.167    8.685    6.698   -0.274
DOM  201   12.984    15.113    17.258   23.916   10.851    8.685    1.403
DO1  501   26.237   30.075   34.074   47.037   22.550   18.995    8.685
Si    LAG I    LAG 2    LAG 3
C1    8.685     7.454    6.550    5.852
WU 101    7.065    6.106    5.388    4.827
UP 201    5.668    4.923    4.358    3.911
Up 501    2.329    2.038    1.812    1.631
DOWN 101   10.613    9.021     7.883    7.019
DOwiu 201   12.964    10.890    9.446    8.371
DOWN 501   26.237   20.134    16.711   14.428
LAG 1        -    8.685     7.454    6.550
LAG 2        -         -    8.685    7.454
LAG 3        -         -        -    8.685
gm m
ml



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qS P.. ..-.. .                                                                                     -* * w  
-                                                                                      5O25S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 . .vt5,so ~St5 *- __u*q S.Jroqq,srq.m   00 1 3  005|e Sf5  0*tSU,*.--.f .0 us-b _-u4.550  t0 >** u*Og 0 S 
{ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~*s,0.r5   ld0.s.  ;  so saes..zs..%s d  *ss,._p.u.  Cean  s.ua..uos .teaos_@                                                      8 gspssq q eel o0esoqe* ..dn o.so,oqt         1 as
z   to
ZEU 5L:0 IOS                                                                                                                                                                                                           0045
rw_us~~~~~~11 tVt              ^        ^ u n  1t*S|_*w-".- q
In sow                 ou ts
z uq>"e uffi bu 4seX " olwtz u*q *q es ret  **-.-b-- , oe">Qe"- ** ,0      qb-P  *     Mc",qlot *sagu  _q           Wqw _    q F a"d-t         N ""  v *_  ., 
%We o  eW  -,_u q 4--X-0 o                                                O* -  *- uq310 ZsZ   |suw l qF 
Zo 6o         =   ne       t aswo
oooz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00S oo  o  oo oo0otoos oos oo  o    ooo    ooo   ooo    ooe os                        q ,..d e..sos so o..gs aoosogs.s oo.se*sgopd *g, roe B_n 
ss*z  bz   I  e   ~ ~sez         .41(44 esoo od  oo0b  .qo   so o            ssgs.^.d- oog,sg
o0r          sesOso oose oos o.Oessego oooeeaa. oow.. ecds   ,S0   ilia o
oe~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t toe *                                                   as *n. o.. sOaqesb 0e0 e0500 alo oo g*o *o  fl,qba ro   .q.  as. 
SISA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                   ONtM"Nt
IHOF } "081 11003 tV rouF ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~00                                                            U
WDDIHI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I I                                                   6
OIl ~   ~      I
Kg I6
Z   6   loinnu s.d.o,.sw sos. e.g.
50g0S1          s"        I o       o l      I OLl     It 6C  5it la       IsIL   514  5091   5001 5Z(t91         SoL       11,.      00I5      co5  OOOS      IC  tso CO    C cL-    so co     co0                            (ISO:)) Ii 001gI.I
rca       "W       c 9ca     ccaK      E          TI       cca KccccOK        cca rc    CcaK      E         Sia cc    ocL a      tc       Sim0      a E1C     toC cc    c 5      000 a      oo                                tqoj
goO c.0Oos         aol        woo,     0 cos      00        01      000        0,        W coosaoos  oosOcos  too  coo  aoosso cI cit               Cc        at1       a, P      oo       00 0                       A- W-1 .005'll-11
ct 9a    rccI      ccaV      CC        ccaStt    rccS      cc W     rccS      rca       cc a      ccaS      o CZr   fces        S o L     501      SI ML     Le  i      ris      goc,S 000  WaOpas*M - tso
aCr      lorisCs   LtoIs     at t 5    LO        a,C       COlO      o0        tl       Z eoe  1(o 1a,      tot        SI0      04091     alts     cc.       00 00 S    iSt a    coto     00 0                               1001
COO       o  t      o  09    lOS       L o       zl        to       t 100  10  10   100  00       c 100     t   C      .O  5    cos       CI   Is.  Ko        c I       LC       000       00 0                               SO5q,*
0L        Oil0     00t I     co0       000       010 0     o   00 0  W0        W0       W OCl O    W 0L     000       190       00 a       t        No,1 1   SC lSI    toK        I9~   000                     ."es 85d010*O
cc.       $  Ir     a        I co      lo,       co,      a'.       too       ato        Io       coo       a.        co        Io        Co 05              111                 a,        co IouO..c.0*sc
1 00 , J mop I Ilan() 3 1 D 7 OW4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       oioo00cm  00
or  Os  es       cs        g~~~~~~~~~ty is     oslw    Cs,,Em   3t     Js  05 ()o      5        0                             0         1         0                    
VSNO HIsI 



-D
n
lm
U '
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII OIvOOO
110c     tois    low       lOSi      16r      fall    11U        Ila       twit     ff*s                            qegoo LA IN    1
MO$      me       mG        me         et    mI    me   1m0e               m DOWe   "of                         - l 6oO   "11- J d
aooG      o  ' o :,    ao      COD ooo    "eX     COD       COv       laes     CON-
ag                a o  of a w   tc00          .         o        o 9      cof      a* 00 
*                                                             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gss0  WrN n  3W B
Xc       U        a        It        IC       @t        we       CC       cz



Present Values of Met Streams at a Discount Rate of 13.5X
infsl==sn.....=....a.a...s=a.s...as =zm=a z=====z ....s.==
B1   LOP 101    UP 20X    UP 50X  DOMN 10  DOUW 20X  DO0w SOX
C1     -42.7      -2S.2       -7.8      44.5      *60.1      -77.6    -129.9
UP lOX      -64.4     -46.9      -29.5       22.8      -81.8     -99.3    -151.6
WP 20X      -86.1     -68.7      -51.2        1.1    -103.5    -121.0    -1T3.3
UP 50    -151.2    -133.8    -116.3        -64.0    -168.6    -186.1    -238.4
DOWN IOX      -21.0       -3.5      13.9       66.2      *38.4     -55.8    -108.2
DOWN 20X        0.7       18.2      35.6       87.9      -16.7     -34.1      -86.5
DOWN 50       65.9      83.3      100.7      153.0       48.4      31.0      -21.3
B1     LAG I      LAG 2      LAG 3
C1     -42.7      -63.4      -81.7      -97.8
UP 10      -64.4      -85.1    -103.4    -119.5
UP 20X      -86.1    -106.8    -125.1    -141.2
UP 50    -151.2    -171.9    -190.2    -206.3
DOWN 10      -21.0      -41.7     -60.0      -76.1
WuJ  201        0.7      -20.0     -38.3      -54.4
DOWN 50       65.9       45.1      26.8       10.7
LAG 1          -     -37.6      -55.9      -72.0
LAG 2          -         -      -33.1      -49.2
LAG 3          -         -          -      -29.2
Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
B1    LIP 10    UP 201    UP 501  DOWN lOX  DOWN 201  DOWN 50
C1     9.246    11.004    12.732    17.887        7.437      5.543    -1.408
UP 101      7.605     9.246    10.845    15.539       5.896      4.084    -2.853
UP 20X     6.187      7.744      9.246    13.591      4.549      2.791    -4.245
LUP 501     2.791     4.209      5.543      9.246      1.254    -0.458    -8.548
DM 101    11.197    13.114    15.019    20.800           9.246     7.232      0.137
DOWN 201    13.591    15.734    17.887    24.540    11.438         9.246      1.847
DOWNM 50     26.849    30.658    34.617    47.419    23.179    19.628         9.246
B1     LAG I      LAG 2      LAG 3
C1     9.246      7.925     6.957      6.211
LUP lDX     7.605     6.562      5.784      5.177
LUP 201    6.187      5.365      4.743    4'.252
LUP 501    2.791      2.438      2.164      1.945
DOWM 101    11.197      9.506      8.301      7.386
DO0N 20X    13.591    11.389       9.874      8.746
DOWN 501    26.849    20.643    17.149    14.815
LAG 1          -     9.246      7.925     6.957
LAG 2          -         -      9.246      7.925
LAG 3          -         -          -     9.246
(Dm
Lc
0-I



- 28 -
Annex 2
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Financial and Economic Price Estimates for Washed Coffee
If                                                 | Unit          Financial     Economic
1. FOB Price
|   CIF Hamburg                                   USS/Ton        2,903"         2,903
l     Freight and Other Charges Assab to Hamburg                   250           250
l     FOB Assab                                       '          2,653          2,653
l     FOB Assab                                   Birr/Ton       549221       13,26S '
2. Taxes and Duties
l     Surtax                                      Birr/Ton         100
l     Duty                                                         150
MCTC Cess                                                         50
l     Turnover Tax                                                 132
l     Other Taxes                                                                - 
Total Taxes and Duties                                           432            -
3. Financial and Insurance Charges
Bank Charges                                     Birr/Ton         69             69
*   Interest                                                        62            62
l     Insurance                                       -             10            10
. Fees, Stamps
. Weight Loss Addis to Assab                                        31            31
Total Financing and Insurance Charges                             172           172
4. Cleaning and Other Costs
. FOB Handling                                    Birr/Ton          45            63
. Miscellaneous                                                      1             1
Transport to Assab                                                187           299
. Bags                                                             40             56
. Cleaning Costs                                      '            382           535
. CMC Overhead Costs                                  '59                         83
Total Cleaning and Other Costs                                   714          1,037
5. Price at Addis                                   Birr/Ton       4,174         12,056
6. Transport to Addis                                                170           272
7. Processing Costs per ton or Clean Coffee                          675           802
8. Price to Farmer (Clean Coffee)                       '          3,329         10,982
Source: NICTD (financial prices only). Nlission estimates (economic prices).
1/  Per WB prices projections. 1995 prices expressed in 1992 constant dollars.
2/  Converted at the rate of 1 USS = Birr 2.07.
3/  Converted at the rate of 1 USS = Birr 5.00.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARETING PROJECT
WASHED COFFEE PRODUCTION STATISTICS
1985i86    1986i87    1987/88    1988/89   1989/90    1990,91
No. ot Washing Stations                                                 72        100       106        125        132        134
New Washing Stations (CPMP 11)                                                     28         6         19          7          2
Volume of Red Cherry Processed             (Tons)                    45279     63663      64292      84931      77875     55445
Volumeof Clean Coffee Produced            (Tons)                      6646      9222       9232      12942      11918       8787
Incr Clean Coffee Prod (CPMP 11)          (Tons)                                2264        618       1828        610        161
Cum.lncr Production (CPMP 11)              (Tons)                                2264      2882       4710       5320       5481
Capacity Utilisation (all stations)          %                          71         71        67         80         71         57
Capacity Utilisation (CPMP 11 only)          %                                     62        79         74         67         e2
R.ed Cherry Clean Coffee Ratio               %                         6 8        6.9          7        6.6        6 5       6 3
Processing Costs                          (Bir Mills)                 25 4       33 4       34 6       46 9      42 3       32 9
Incr Processing Costs (CPMP 11)           (Bir Mills)                            9 35       1.96       7 13      2.24       0 49
Total Sales Rev.(at Service Coop)          (Bir Mills)                28.4       39.9       38.4       55 1      44 7       35 2
Incr. Sales Revenue (CPMP 11)             (Bir Mills)                            9.80       2.57       7.78      2.29       0 64
Profit (Loss)                             (Sir Mills.)                   3        6.5        3 8        8 2       2 4        2 3
Incr Profit (Loss) CPMP 11                (Bir Mills)                            044        061        0.65      004        0 15
Cum incr Protit (Loss) CPMP 11            (Bir Mills)                            0 44       1 06       1.71       1 75      1 91
Source MCTD - Planning and Programmhig Department



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROlCT
COFFEE EXPORT QUANTITIES AND VAILUES (FOB ASSABI)
Quantities (tons)                Values (000 Bit)                 Value por Ton (Birr)
Year
Washed   Unwashed   Total                Washed   Unwashed  Total         Washed   Unwashed    Difertential
1983/4                              9446     88448      97894                64321    541667    605988       6809         6124        685
1984/5                             10158     58805      68963                69580    369338    438918       6850         6281        569
1985/6                             12431     60759      73190               120926    594270    715196       9728         9781        -53
1980/7                             14669     58743      73412                93688    329905    423593       6387         5616        771
1987/8                             13809     69290      83099               105956    449986    555942       7673         6494       1179
1988/9                             22374     61648      84022               168124    365270    533394       7514          5925      1589
198W90                             16347     66583      82930                73325    279059    352384       4486         4191        294
1990/1                             11168      37799     48967                63133    180331    243464       5653          4771       882
1991/2 (October-March)              3782      10293     14075                26217     48950     75167       6932          4756      2176
C
Notes
I Washed coffee includes pfoduction by non- project washing plants such as state farms
2- The periods from 1989/90 to 1990/91 experienced declining pfoductions because ot the dramatic fall in coffee ptices tollowing the collapse of the ICO quola system
and Ihe intensitying civil strite
3. Production has further dramatically declined in 1991/92 as the civil conflict came to a climax and many coffee washing plants were destroyed.
4. The price of washed coffee has plcked up dramatically in 1991/92 because ol the tight supply situation and in October 1991 for the first time, washed cofHee could be traded
on the Addis Abeba coflee auction.
Source: MCTD Planning and Programming Department
z
rn



IBRD  1610
g   <      ,r   \                            >                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T H I O P I A
AND MARKETING PROJECT
COFFEE AREAS
fj                                 ~s~o    C / u .. *,' ;}> | 1i3P>eml 3 ' ff t h;i |      .....
0'~~~~
I*D_A      m   0                                     4    '  a.
!L   G   A   N(, D  A                        D  3    0        o  DO_Q                        5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ,t,,,,*  ,  ..  ., a
U G A N D A )   j                      M                                                O                   ;~ j 
I pu G A N D A ) K < \ F N i~~~-o >v,vA i $> } > r                               0     0    '0  J0



