Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 369la-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING ANI) MARKETING PROJECT
November 30, 1983
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be aised by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =   Ethiopian Birr
US$0.4831                    =   Birr 1.00
US$1.00                      =   Birr 2.07
US$483,100                   =   Birr 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.205 pounds (lb)
1 feresula                   =   17 kg (clean coffee)
100 kilograms (kg)           =   1 quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)            =   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)               =   2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles (mi)
CONVERSIONS
Washed Coffee - to make 1 ton clean coffee requires an average
1.25 tons of parchment coffee; to make 1 ton
parchment coffee requires an average 4.8 tons of
coffee cherries; therefore to make 1 ton of clean
coffee requires an average 6 tons of coffee
cherries;
Unwashed      - to make 1 ton clean coffee requires an average 2
(or Sundried)   tons of dried coffee berries; to obtain 1 ton of
Coffee          dried coffee berries requires an average 3 tons of
fresh cherries; therefore to make 1 ton of clean
coffee requires an average 6 tons of coffee
cherries.
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB     -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AMC      -  Agricultural Marketing Corporation
ASC      -  Audit Services Corporation
CIP      -  Coffee Improvement Project
CMC      -  Coffee Marketing Corporation
CPP I    -  First Coffee Processing Project  (Credit 290-ET)
CPMP II  -  Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project
CPSC     -  Central Planning Supreme Council (in brief - Supreme Council)
CTDMA    -  Coffee and Tea Development and Marketing Authority
CY       -  Crop Year
EBCA     -  Ethiopian Building Construction Authority
ETCA     -  Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority
FY       -  Fiscal Year
GOE      -  Government of Ethiopia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLKY
!AR      -  Institute for Agricultural Research
ICO      -  International Coffee Organization
MCTD     -  Ministry of Coffee and Tea Developuent
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
MPP      -  Minimum Package Program (started 1970)
HPP I    -  First Agricultural Minimum Package Project (1973-77)
HWPP II   -  Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project (1981-86)
PA       -  Peasant Association
PC       -  Producers Cooperative
PIlU     -  Project Implementation Unit (of MCTD)
pY       -  Project Year
RRD      -  Rural Roads Department (of ETCA)
SC       -  Service Cooperative
WADU     -  Wolaita Agricultural Development t'nit
GOVERNMENT OF ETHI)OPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
heir offcial duties.=ts contents may not otherwise edisclosed without World Bank authorization.






ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MLARKETING PROJECT
Table of Contenls
Page No.
I.  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                                1
A.  General                                                        1
B.  Agriculture in the Economy                                     1
C.  Land Reform                                                    2
D.  Bank Role in Agriculture                                       3
II.  COFFEE SUBSECTOR AND PROJECT FORMULATIDN                           4
A.  General                                                        4
B.  Borrowing/Executing Agencies                                   5
C.  Project Areas                                                  8
D.  First Coffee Processing Project (Cr. 290-ET)                   8
E.  Project Formulation                                           10
III.  THE PROJECT                                                       10
A.  Concept                                                       10
B.  Components                                                    12
C.  Detailed Features                                            12
D.  Status of Engineering                                         18
E.  Costs                                                         19
F.  Financing                                                     21
G. Procurement                                                    23
H. Disbursement                                                   25
I.  Environmental Impact                                         25
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                            26
A.  Organization and Management                                   26
B.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                     26
V.  TECHNOLOGY, PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND TAXES                 27
A.  TechnoloQv and Production                                     27
B.  Markets                                                       28
C.  Prices                                                        29
D.  Taxes                                                         31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. D. Lister, C. Smith, J. Veen and Ms. C. Cornelius (IDA) and
Messrs. H.J. Van Hilten and D. Shoesmith (Consultants) which visited
Ethiopia in April/May 1981. The appraisal was updated in November/December
1982 by a mission consisting of Messrs. Stern (IDA), Verkade and Shoesmith
(Consultants), and in January/February 1983 by a mission consisting of
messrs. Lister, Smith and Bolt (IDA).



Page No.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                  32
A.  Introduction                                                    32
B.  Washing Station Cooperatives                                   32
C.  Growers                                                         35
D.  Coffee Marketing Corporation                                   36
E.  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank                    38
F.  Government Budget                                              39
G.  Accounts and Audit                                              39
VI][. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                                  41
A.  Benefits                                                        41
B.  Economic Rate of Return                                        41
C.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis                                 42
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS                                               42
DRAWING - Bird's Eye View of Washing Station (World Bank 23279)
TABLEES
1. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of
IDA Credit
2. Unwashed Coffee - Derivation of Financial and
Economic Prices
3. Washed Coffee - Derivation of Financial and
Economic Prices
4. Tenants' Incomes by Region With and Without Project
5.  Washing Stations Constructed in 1983/84 - Income
Statement and Cash Flow
6.  Ethiopian Coffee Marketing Corporation - Projected Income
Statement From Washed Coffee
7. Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank -
Financial Results Under the Project
8. Government of Ethiopia - Incremental Cash Flow
9. Economic Costs and Benefits
10. Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
1. MCTD Organization Chart (World Bank 22952)
2. PIU Organization Chart (World Bank 23063)
ANNEXES
1. Site Selection Criteria for Washing Stations
2. Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
MAP
Ethiopia - Coffee Areas (IBRD 16107)



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND HU.RKETING PROJECT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
1.01      Ethiopia, with a total land area of about 1.2 million km2, lies
in the horn of Africa just north of the EquatDr. The central part of the
country is mostly high plateau, 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea level.
T'his plateau is dissected by gorges and broad valleys and is surrounded by
extensive lowlands, most of which are inhabited by nomadic pastoralists.
Agricultural conditions vary considerably in the different zones of the
country according to topography, climate, soils and natural vegetation.
While no detailed land use data are available, it is estimated that about
50% of the land is permanent pasture, 10% cultivated, 20% barren desert or
swamps, 10% rivers and lakes and 10% forests. The country's extremely
rugged terrain is a serious obstacle to internal transportation,
communication and economic development.
1.02      The total population, estimated at 32.8 million in 1982, has been
growing at an annual rate of about 2.5%. Tot:al gross national product
(GNP) at current market prices was estimated at US$4.4 billion in 1981/82.
About 90% of the people live in rural areas, and GNP per capita is
estimated at US$140 per annum in 1980. About one quarter of the population
.is,engaged in coffee production, processing and marketing.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.03      Ethiopian agriculture is practiced in varied ecological
conditions which permit a large number of crop and livestock activities.
Ethiopian smallholders have a high level of traditional skill, but lack
adequate supporting factors such as good marketing systems, access roads,
credit, extension and veterinary services and improved seeds, as well as
fertilizer and other farm inputs. Agriculture contributes about 50% of
GDP at factor cost, over 90% of exports and 85% of Ethiopians derive the
main part of their income from farming. In 1981/82, agriculture
contributed about US$1.9 billion of GDP. Crops account for about 80% of
the gross value of agricultural production E.nd livestock and livestock
products for 20%. With the decline of other export crops, principally
pulses and oilseeds since the mid-1970's, coffee has become the single most
important export commodity contributing about two thirds of export
earnings.
1.04      Cereals account for about 60% of crop production, the latter in
1980/81 totalling 6.9 million tons. The country is a net importer of
grain, the imports amounting to about 350,000 tons in 1980/81 of which



- 2 -
three quarters was provided under World Food Program Projects.
Furthermore, grain production fluctuates from year to year, such that
during drought years, production may be insufficient for man and domestic
animals and famines have occurred in the drier parts of the country,
notably in 1973/74. In the worst affected areas (Wello, Tigrai and parts
of Gondar and Showa provinces), increased farming intensity has resulted in
the progressive shortening of fallow periods, cultivation on slopes,
removal of tree cover, soil degredation and declining yields. In the past,
large-scale mechanized farming was developed in limited areas, while
smallholder agriculture was largely neglected. Smallholder production in
the main cropping areas, which are in the highlands, can be characterized
as being based on rainfed cultivation on small, scattered irregular plots,
with low cultivation standards and yield levels, using little or no
fertilizer and suffering high field and storage crop losses.
1.05      Livestock plays an important role in most Ethiopian farms but
little research has been done in Ethiopia on improving overall farming
systems to develop animal husbandry as an integral part of the farm. The
principal requirements in the livestock sub-sector are for improvements in
animal management, animal health and animal nutrition.
1.06      Shortage of skilled manpower will, at least in the short run, be
a constraint on development, since the higher education institutions
produced virtually no graduates from 1974-77. Since then, however,
Government has taken remedial steps by organizing training programs in many
fields, and the higher education institutions have now reopened.
C. Land Reform
1.07      Under the land reform decree of March 4, 1975, rural land was
nationalized, and usufruct rights were distributed to peasants with an
upper limit of 10 ha per family. Commercial farms were taken over by
Government; some were subsequently settled by smallholders, but many are
being cultivated as state farms. Farmers were organized into peasant
associations (PAs), each made up of from 200 to 400 families and
controlling a minimum of 800 ha of land, including grazing land. Private
tenancy, which was common in the southern part of the country, has been
abolished. As of end 1982, some 23,500 PAs were operative with a total
membership of 7.2 million families. Around 50% of these families now have
rights to less than 2 ha of land each, and 90% to less than 5 ha. The
number of holdings is now larger than before the revolution, and the
average size of holding is now smaller.
1.08      The functions of a PA are to induce and organize its membership
into cooperative farms or producers cooperatives (PCs); distribute land
between members and organizations; administer public lands within their
areas; build schools, clinics and similar institutions; cultivate land on
behalf of the aged, young, ill and widowed; and undertake villagization
programs. They fulfill many of the functions of local authorities. They
have the power and duty to safeguard the political, economic and social



rights of peasants; establish cooperative societies, women's associations
and peasant defense squads; and issue and implement internal regulations to
achieve these aims.  The PAs have legal personality and can both sue and be
sued. Each PA is represented by a delegate :o a weredal/ level PA, and
t:his association is in turn represented by delegates to an awraja PA. A
national peasant association, the All-Ethiopia Peasants Association, has
been formed with delegates from the awraja associations. The PCs
progressively submerge individual property rights of the members and the
assets of the group become collectively held, organized and managed. At
end 1982, the PCs numbered 1,006, of which 93 were aiming to attain full
collectivization status and had registered with the Ministry of
Agriculture, thereby assuming the status of legal entities. The 1,006 PCs
had about 60,000 families and a total acreage of about 152,000 ha, and
owned about 47 tractors and 42,650 oxen. Current plans call for the PCs to
eventually take over the functions of the PAs; the latter will be
disbanded.
1.09      Groups of at least two PAs are also empowered and encouraged to
set up Service Cooperatives (SCs) to handle product, input and consumer
goods marketing and provide services (such as machinery) to members. At
end 1982 there were about 3,650 SCs with a total capital of about Birr 92
million and serving about 16,000 PAs whose membership approximated 4.6
million families. Most of these SCs are in an early stage of development
and are expected to require one or two years to attain management standards
which would enable them to be registered (and hence have access to official
credit). Of the 3,650 SCs mentioned above, 593 are registered. The
Department of Cooperatives of the Ministry cf Agriculture is responsible
for helping SCs install and maintain appropriate accounting systems and
management practices. A Cooperative Institute for SCs has been set up in
1983.
D. Bank Role in Agriculture
1.10      The Bank has considerable experience in lending for agriculture
in Ethiopia, having made loans for thirteen such projects since 1969.
Assistance to the Minimum Package Program (MPP I and II), and the two
phases of the Wolaita Agricultural Development Project (WADU), have been
specifically directed at smallholder agricuLture. Other projects include
three livestock projects aimed at assisting the smallscale livestock owner,
a land settlement project at Humera, an irr:.gation project at Amibara,
Coffee Processing I, the Drought Rehabilital:ion Project and a Grain Storage
and Marketing Project, in addition to a DFC project including an
agricultural credit component for the AIDB. Performance of agricultural
projects has been mixed. The Revolution brought unforeseen changes for
some projects, and the difficult security situation has affected others,
notably the Rangelands Projects. Some institutional changes were
incorporated in the Addis Ababa Dairy Project and the Coffee Processing I
1/ The administrative divisions of Ethiopia are, in descending order of
size, the administrative region (15, inaluding Addis Ababa), awraja
(102) and wereda (586).



- 4 -
Project to allow cooperatives to carry out certain functions that had
originally been assigned to private farmers. Apart from these specific
problems, overall project implementation has so far continued to be
satisfactory.
II. COFFEE SUBSECTOR AND PROJECT FORMULATION
A. General
2.01      Arabica coffee, which originated in Ethiopia, is the country's
leading cash crop, principal earner of foreign exchange (about 64% in
1980/81), and largest single source of Government revenue. In many parts
of the country, coffee trees grow wild, and some 10% of production comes
from this so-called "forest coffee". Even "garden" or planted coffee
receives little or no attention from farmers and almost no modern inputs,
except recently in areas covered by the IDA-appraised, EDF-financed Coffee
Improvement Project (CIP), now in its second phase. Because of this
scattered and irregular growing pattern which is unique to Ethiopia,
production figures can only be estimated on the basis of exports after
allowing for traditionally high, but unknown domestic consumption. Thus,
in the 1981/82 coffee year (October through September), production was
estimated at approximately 200,000 tons, of which 79,600 tons were exported
and 120,400 tons were assumed to have been consumed locally. Of exports,
Ethiopia filled its International Coffee-Organization (ICO) quota with
73,700 tons which went mainly to Europe (39,000 tons, including almost all
washed coffee) and to the USA (34,000 tons, virtually all sundried); while
5,900 tons went to non quota markets, nearly all to Saudi Arabia and the
Gulf States. The importance of the USA market to Ethiopia has fluctuated
considerably in recent years, with about 30-70% of unwashed (sundried)
quota exports going to that country in any one year. By wet processing or
washing some of its traditional sundried coffee exports, Ethiopia seeks to
take advantage of the price premium - historically about US$750 per ton
(FOB Assab) - offered for washed over unwashed coffee in international
markets. However, of total exports, only some 10,600 tons or 13% was
washed coffee in 1981/82. CPMP II aims to increase this proportion. The
main market for washed coffee is in Northern Europe, predominantly West
Germany where three buyers now purchase almost 10,000 tons (95%) of
Ethiopia's washed coffee production.
2.02      For a variety of reasons Ethiopia's coffee exports have been
erratic over the past decade. A recovery has, however, taken place and
exports have reached their pre-revolutionary level. The ICO reintroduced
export quotas for the coffee year 1980/81, and Ethiopia has obtained an
annual quota more or less commensurate with its past performance. In
1981/82, Ethiopia's allotment was 2.4% of the total international quota of
3.1 million tons. Ethiopia's share of the quota market in 1982/83 coffee
year rose to 2.42%. This meant its allocation was about 81,450 tons out of
a total market of 3.36 million tons. The total quota market in 1983/84 is
estimated at 3.2 million tons with Ethiopia's share being 81,775 tons or
2.57%. The country might have difficulty fulfilling much bigger ICO
allocations, although price projections and the overall projected world



-5-
demand and supply situation does not indicate a significant increase in
Ethiopia's allocation in the next decade. Internally, the producer's share
of the FOB price has fallen from 70% in 1975/76 to about 40% in 1982/83.
This was due in large part to the imposition of the coffee export surtax in
1976/77 in an effort to capture windfall profits after the Brazilian frost
of 1975/76. The ensuing boom in coffee prices, however, has given way to a
period of lower prices and the surtax could discourage additional
produiction, if Ethiopia ever wished to significantly expand its exports.
This is not an issue for the proposed project, due to the large quantity of
coLfee available for washing, but the effect: of the surtax on the relative
attractiveness of coffee compared to other crops is an issue for the future
development of the agricultural sector. In the case of washed coffee, up
to and including the 1980/81 season, funds wqhich should have been used for
additional payments to farmers were also rel:ained as profits by CMC or
diverted by the local administration, often in collaboration with local
cooperative management committees, to the construction of roads, schools,
etc., which destroyed the incentive for fanaers to deliver fresh cherries
to the washing stations instead of sundrying them. This caused
underutilization of existing washing stations and a considerable loss of
export earnings for the country.
B. Borrowing/Executiag Agencies
2-03      Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development (MCTD).  The main
institution in the coffee subsector is MCTD, formerly the Coffee and Tea
Development and Marketing Authority (CTDMA) and previously the
National Coffee Board (NCB). It is responsible for improving coffee
production, harvesting and processing. The NCB was established in 1957 and
its functions and duties were enlarged to include regulatory functions,
implementation of international coffee agreements, internal and external
coffee trading and more recently tea develcpment. MCTD maintains an
extension service and coffee inspectors, and is presently, in addition to
having implemented three projects - Coffee Processing (IDA), Coffee
Improvement (EDF) and Coffee Survey (ICO) - carrying out a large
anti-coffee berry disease (CBD) spray program.
2.04      Project Implementation Unit (PIU'.  PIU was established as an
autonomous agency by resolution of the National Coffee Board in 1972 to
carry out the works included in CPP I, namely to construct and initially
operate coffee washing stations, construct roads, develop cooperative
societies to take over the washing stations and to provide technical
services to washing stations. Ultimately, PIU constructed 76 washing
stat:ions including four on state farms, about 350 km of rural roads
consisting of 300 km of feeder roads and 5C) km of access roads and promoted
over 80 cooperative societies in Sidamo an(d Kaffa administrative regions.
All of the washing stations are currently tinder the control of
cooperatives.  Organizationally PIU is responsible to MCTD.  Its day to day
management is headed by a General Manager. He is assisted by Department
Heads in charge of Accounts and Administra.ion, and Engineering. With the
ccrpletion of CPP I, PIU's staffing, both In quality and numbers, declined
and the Unit is operating at a reduced leval. It is currently carrying out
road work and other construction for other units in MCTD.



- 6 -
2.05      Cooperatives.  Private ownership of washing stations has been
abolished in Ethiopia and operations have been taken over by cooperatives.
Though their operations have been financially successful, nevertheless,
processing has been less than optimal due mainly to inexperienced
mnanagement. Also, until 1981/82, farmers were dissatisfied with the
amounts paid out to them, so that coffee cherries delivered to washing
stations were insufficient to sustain a high washing station capacity
utilization.  Increases in incentives introduced in 1981/82 have, in part,
remedied this situation.
2.06      The cooperative movement in the main. coffee growing areas
(Sidamo, Kaffa, Wollega, Illubabor), is fairly well established. There are
about 400 cooperative societies in the four regions, with about 700,000
members or an average membership of 1,750 farmers. Sidamo has 130
registered cooperatives, Kaffa 40, Wollega 70 and Illubabor 40, making a
total of 280. The remaining 120 societies are in the process of being
re-registered.
2.07      Analysis of data submitted by cooperative societies shows a wide
margin of operating costs, and revenues from sales also vary
substantially. However, some of the data are not strictly comparable
because bookkeeping standards are not uniform. In the past the absence of
standard, up to date bookkeeping and full time washing station management
has also contributed substantially to less effective processing and coffee
quality control. Cooperative societies had been reluctant to employ
factory managers, engine operators and bookkeepers in order to cut
expenditure, not realizing the benefits of cost and quality control. These
shortcomings had been masked, to a certain extent, by high international
and corresponding local coffee prices. Currently, with anticipated lower
international and local prices, cost effectiveness and quality control have
assumed increasing importance which the cooperatives,MCTD and AIDB now
recognize.
2.08      Coffee Marketing Corporation (CMC).  CMC was established in 1975
as part of CTDMA with the primary aim of implementing Government's
objective to enter into coffee marketing, especially for export. In its
first three years, CMC handled only about 10% of the total export crop.
However, with the abolition of the auction market in washed coffee and
increasing Government control over unwashed coffee, it marketed all the
washed coffee in 1981/82 and in the same season some 66% of exported
unwashed coffee. CMC's long rur aim is to completely control both
markets. To achieve its present position the Corporation has had to
purchase unprocessed coffee at source and for this it has establisti,d, in
the interior, 51 purchasing stations covering both washed and unwashed
coffee, and 110 hulling plants for unwashed coffee. In addition CMC owns
66 heavytrucks and rents others in order to transport coffee to either
Addis Ababa or Dire Dawa for final cleaning in one of its 6 cleaning
plants. To carry out this operation the Corporation has some 4,000 full
time employees and employs a further 400 people on a daily basis. The
organization is headed by a General Manager who is directly responsible to
the Permanent Secretary of MCTD. Reporting to the Deputy Manager are
departmental managers for purchasing (of coffee in the interior), technical



- 7 -
services (responsible for transport and maintenance), plant supervision,
administration, finance and exports.
2.09      The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR).  The IAR's work is
divided into the following principal fields: animal science, pasture and
forage, field crops, soils, horticulture, plant protection, coffee and
coffee diversification, agricultural engineering and socio-economic
studies, home science and food technology. IAR's research network consists
of headquarters in Addis Ababa, eight stations and seventeen field
stations, six of the latter being devoted to coffee. IAR has been
supported for several years by four successive phases of a UNDP/FAO
project. In the opinion of FA02/ a viable agricultural research
capability has been established in Ethiopia although it does recognize that
research development has been uneven with lags in investigations in
livestock, horticulture, resource conservation, improved implements and
above all, improved farming systems. Further shortcomings include a lack
of focus on the immediate needs of peasant far-mers, and on the rapid
development of directly applicable results; a gap in the widespread
transfer of results to the field through poor linkage between research and
exctension; and poor procedures in the preparation of the yearly research
program. Major achievements, however, include the selection of higher
yielding cereals, as well as improved pulses and forage varieties. In
coffee, the IAR has been involved in a major affort to select CBD resistant
coffee varieties, which although successful was carried out at the expense
of efforts in other fields of coffee research including a coffee agronomy
trials component included under CPP I.
2.10      Agricultural and Industrial Developnent Bank (AIDB).   The
state owned AIDB was established by decree in 1970 and reconstituted by a
Re-Establishment Proclamation in 1979. It has emerged as the only
institutional source of medium and long term credit for coffee in
Ethiopia. Its resources come from Government with IDA having provided
three lines of credit in foreign currency totalling some US$15 million. A
fourth IDA line of credit (US$30 million) has recently been approved. The
resources of the institution at September 30, 1982 totalled Birr 1,471
million of which Birr 1,367 million (or 93%) was used for loans and
undisbursed loan commitments. Of the total loan portfolio outstanding at
this date, 10% was for industrial loans, 9.52 for service loans and 80.5%
for agricultural loans. AIDB's overall role is thus primarily to lend for
agricultural and industrial development and crganizationally it is divided
into two such Departments with other departments for finance and banking,
and controllers. In addition there are branches situated in the interior
in both regions in which washing stations already exist and also in those
regions proposed for new washing station construction under the project.
In total AIDB has 8 branches. The Agricultural Department of AIDB at
present prepares detailed proposals for both long and short term loans to
washing station cooperatives. Also the Department has a Follow-up Division
2/ Main Report of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Investment Center
entitled Ethiopia Agricultural Research ]?roject, Reconnaissance Mission
(Report No. 44/81 Eth. 8, dated December 17, 1981).



- 8 -
which regularly visits washing stations to supervise their loans. Under
the AIDB IV Project, institutional strengthening both in manpower and
organization is being undertaken which should help, inter alia, to
strengthen AIDB's Agricultural Department.
C. Project Areas
2.11      Coffee from the four regions (Sidamo, Kaffa, Wollega and
Illubabor) accounts for 90% of arrivals at the terminal markets of Dire
Dawa and Addis Ababa. In 1981/82, Sidamo was the largest producer of washed
coffee (76% of the total) followed by Kaffa (22%), so that the quality of
washed coffee from these two regions is generally well known. Certain sub
areas especially of Sidamo (e.g. Yirga Chefe) are the source of some of
Ethiopia's finest coffee. Illubabor, on the other hand, and to a lesser
extent, Wollega, present a different picture in that little is known about
washed coffee quality in these regions. In the case of Illubabor, only
about 90 tons of washed coffee were produced in the 1982/83 season. The
area is also very different physically from the other three project
regions; altitudes are lower and climatic conditions are more humid, with
rainforest vegetation occuring in many parts. Because of these conditions,
quality generally may be expected to be lower in Illubabor, while yields
are likely to be higher. There are nevertheless numerous areas in the
region above the threshold for highgrown coffee (about 1,300 m), so that
with careful site selection as outlined in Annex 1, it should be possible
in the future to produce washed coffee of the same quality as the other
regions. Wollega is similar to Illubabor in that there are negligible
quantities of washed coffee being produced presently. However, quality is
generally well known; certain areas around Gimbi and Nekemte produce
coffees which possess the famous Ethiopian mocha flavor. Geographically,
the area is similar to Sidamo or Kaffa.
2.12      The physical characteristics of the project areas, especially
their altitude (1,500 -2,000 m) and rainfall patterns, have had a major
influence on the site selection and implementation schedule (Chart 1).
Each washing station will be sited so as to have an adequate supply of
coffee cherries and of water from a nearby stream. The heavy rains from
June to September have made it necessary to plan all construction work for
the dry season (October-May). Washing stations which do not require work
on access roads have been chosen for the first year's construction program
to allow time for the building of access roads to the Year 2 washing
stations to be constructed in Year 2.
D. First Coffee Processing Project (CPP I) (Credit 290-ET)
2.13      Approved by the Executive Directors in January 1972, CPP I
(Credit 290-ET, US$6.3 million) set out to construct 100 washing stations
in Sidamo and Kaffa, build about 400 km of feeder and access roads, and
carry out trials, training and project preparation activities. The
National Coffee Board, later replaced by the Coffee and Tea Development and



Marketing Authority (CTDMA), and subsequently by the Ministry of Coffee and
Tea Development (MCTD), operating through the nevwly established Project
Implementation U-nait (PIU), was to own au.d initially operate 70 of the newly
constructed washing stations.  These stationis were then to be turned over
to cooperatives of coffee farmers as soon as they were promoted and had
achieved acceptable managemenit levels. The remaining 30 stations were to
be owned by existing cooperatives and the private sector. Credit was to be
channeled through the recently created, Government owned AIDB.  PIU was to
be responsible for all road constructioa, wlhile washing station
construction was to be carried out by privale contractors. By full
development in 1977/78, an additional 11,000 tons per annum of washed,
instead of traditional sundried coffee, were expected which would raise
export earnings by about US$2-6 million.  Tne economic rate of return was
estimated to be in the range of 17 to 21%.  Other expected benefits
included employment and higher income for participatirg farm families
estimated to number about 33,000.
2.14      Project implementation was delayei by about 3 years  initially by
differences between the Bank and the Government over institutional
arrangements, then by procurement delays, and finally the Revolution
necessitated a complete reappraisal of the institutional arrangements. By
this time, there was also a shortage of funds, and the project was scaled
down, in 1976 to 58 washing stations. Of these, 57 were completed by the
December 31, 1980 closing date.  Since then, PIU, with finance from AIDB,
has completed an additional 19 washing stations (4 of which are on state
farms), bringing the total of CPP I and post CPP I stations to 76. Because
of the shortfall in the number of washing stations constructed unker phase
one and their low capacity utilization, incremental production amounted to
only 3,000 tons per annum wnen the PCR was written, compared to the 11,000
tons forecast at appraisal. However, the yroject was an economic success,
due mainly to unforeseen price increases. According to the PCR and PPAR,
the re-estimated economic rate of return iE 20%, compared to the 17-21
percent estimated at appraisal.
2.15      While the project provided a sound basis for the development of
Ethiopian washed coffee, events during the final stages threatened its
success.  Governmenit's decision to pay a fi.xed price premium, irrespective
of quality, for washed over unwashed coffee removed the incentive for
quality processing. Similarly, the divers:Lon of funds by cooperative
management committees to the local administration for the financing of
development projects also deprived farmers of the incentive to pick fresh
cherries and deliver them promptly to the washing stations.  As a result
capacity utilization during the project pe:-iod at the CPP I washing
stations never reached more than 50% of raced capacity (130 tons).  MCTD
has taken administrative measures which has in large part stopped the
diversion of funds by the cooperative manalyement committees without the
consent of their members. The introduction in the 1981/82 season of an
increased premium led to higher capacity utilization but there is still
room for further improvement.  The implemen.tation of a differential pricing
system based on quality in the 1982/83 season, has started to result in
higher quality coffee. By providing for aanual reviews of the price
premium paid for washed coffee, the proposed project would address a major



- 10 -
issue that has contributed to the problem of capacity underutilization in
the past.
E. Project Formulation
2.16      A second coffee processing project was identified in January 1978
by a mission from RMEA which at the time also carried out a regular
supervision of CPP I. RMEA missions visited Ethiopia subsequently to
discuss Government's intentions and the project design and contents. A
general understanding about the project concept was reached in July 1978
and CTDMA prepared most of the background material and cost estimates by
November. A follow-up mission visited Ethiopia in November to discuss
final technical details and collect further data. The final version of the
preparation report was issued in July 1979. However, due to a two year
interruption in new lending operations in Ethiopia the project was not
appraised until April 1981. Because of an additional one year hiatus in
new lending to Ethiopia, the appraisal had to be updated in November/
December 1982 and January/February 1983.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Concept
3.01      Like CPP I, the project is designed to increase the country's
foreign exchange earnings by increasing the proportion of higher value
washed coffee in total coffee exports, and by improving its quality. It
would thus enable Ethiopia to increase its export earnings from coffee
while remaining within the limits of the ICO quota system. The project
seeks to achieve these objectives in two main ways: (a) by providing the
physical facilities to expand and improve the processing and marketing of
washed coffee, and (b) by sustaining the price premium and quality
differentials for washed coffee introduced with PPF assistance to ensure
maximum utilization of the new washing stations, as well as those provided
under CPP I. Because of the importance of the latter and the uncertainty
as to whether or not adequate capacity utilization will be achieved, an
overall GOE program to build at least 100 washing stations for the period
1984-90 would be divided into two projects, the first of which would be
limited to three years. The first project would consist of the replacement
of some 40 existing pre CPP I washing stations in Sidamo by 40 new stations
which would substantially increase existing capacity, as well as
construction of 20 new stations in Kaffa. The second project also of three
years, envisages the construction of at least 40 stations in Illubabor and
Wellega bringing the total number of stations built under two projects to a
minimum of 100.
3.02      Unlike traditional Ethiopian coffees which are sundried, the
production of washed coffee requires specialized machinery and facilities
for pulping, fermentation and drying. The process begins when the grower
delivers fresh cherries to the nearest washing station which is owned and



- 11 -
operated by a cooperative of which he is a member.  If the produce is
accepted, the grower receives ar initial payment and a weight receipt for
the fresh cherries delivered; if not, he sundries his coffee and sells it
to a private trader or CMC. The cooperative sells all of its output of
parchment coffee to CMC which has a monopoly of washed coffee purchases.
Unlike sundried coffees which are fairly uniform in quality and sold mainly
on the U.S. market for the manufacture of instant coffees, washed coffees
"lave specific characteristics (body, flavor, etc.) which differ from lot to
lot and are used largely in northern Europe, mainly West Germany, for
blending purposes. In short, the two products are not substitutable, and
have basically different geographic markets and end uses. Moreover, a
substantial price premium is paid by blenders for high quality Ethiopian
washed coffees. The share of washed coffee in total Ethiopian coffee
exports in 1981/82 was about 13%. In 1982/83, it was only about 11% due to
unusually wet weather conditions combined with a severe attack of CBD,
which reduced supplies of coffee cherries.  Drying took much longer than
usual and hence there was insufficient dryirg space. The project would
raise the share of washed coffee in total exports to around 30%.
3.03      In addition to building washing stations, the proposed project
would provide the physical and institutional infrastructure to charnnel back
to the producing cocperatives and the growe!s their fair share of the FOB
price based on the price premium pa-id for different qualities of Ethiopian
washed coffee on overseas markets, thereby ensuring that they have an
incentive to keep producing high quality washed coffee. At present, the
country does not have a separate physical ir.frastructure for milling
(removal of parchment), grading (by size) and storing (parchment and clean
coffee) resulting in inefficiency of operations. Until recently, there was
no classifying (cup tasting) of washed coffee with the result that neither
domestic buyers nor sellers knew the quality characteristics and hence the
value of the coffees being traded which have traditionally been determined
by overseas buyers on the basis of samples. In 1979/80, CMC paid
cooperatives the price for Jimma 5, which is sundried coffee, plus a fixed
margin of Birr 17/feresula or Birr 1,000 (US$483) per ton less transport
costs incurred by CMC on behalf of cooperatives such as that between the
cooperatives and the Addis warehouse. In 1980/81, the fixed margin
mentioned above was Birr 20/feresula or Birl- 1,176 (US$568) per ton, while
in 1981/82 it was Birr 22/feresula or Birr :294 (US$625) per ton. In
1982/83 the premiums, after introduction of the classification system (see
below), were on average the same as in 1981/82 i.e. Birr 22/feresula.  The
average FOB premium for those four years was approximately Birr 1,560 per
ton, but on average CMC only paid cooperativ7es Birr 19.88/feresula or Birr
1,170 per ton. After deducting the extra costs of processing and exporting
washed over unwashed coffee of approximately Birr 65/ton, CMC earned a net
profit of Birr 325 per ton or 21% of the gross premium. Cooperatives and
their members have thus not been receiving the full premium earned by
washed coffee. Hence cooperatives paid less quality incentive to growers
than was reflected in the real incremental earnings from washed coffee. To
rectify the latter, it was essential to introduce a system for quality
assessment including an independent liquoriag department capable of
distinguishing between different qualities Df washed coffee and effecting
payments on this basis.  This was done in 1P82/83 under the PPF and is



- 12 -
being continued in 1983/84 with the same grades and prices. Because the
prices received now reflect quality, they can be used by MCTD to advise the
cooperatives on their standard of processing such as over or under
fermenting, improper drying, noxious tastes, etc. In sum, a fair return to
the producer is essential to keep the supply of high quality washed coffee
flowing, and this cannot be done without a significant price premium being
passed on to the producer and differential payments being made for quality.
B. Components 3/
3.04     The proposed first project, which would extend over three years,
consists of the following nine components:
(a)  Washing Stations (US$ 12.7 million)
(b)  Rural Roads (US$ 7.0 million)
(c)  Assistance to Cooperatives (US$ 5.6 million)
(d)  Training (US$ 1.4 million)
(e)  Trials (US$ 0.4 million)
(f)  MCTD Planning Department (US$ 2.0 million)
(g)  MCTD Development Department (US$ 1.2 million)
(h)  Coffee Marketing Corporation (US$ 9.6 million)
(i)  Project Implementation Unit (US$ 4.6 million)
C. Detailed Features
3.05      Washing Stations.  The work to be done on washing stations
including their location and numbers under the two projects of GOE's
1984-1990 program is summarized below:
3/ All costs in this section and Section C are shown in base costs at
August 1983 prices.



- 13 -
Type of                          Under the         Under the       Total
Construction Work       Location   First Project   Second Project   Program
New Washing             Sidamo           40
Stations               Kaffa             20                 -
Wollega           -                20
Illubabor         -                20
60           ~~~40          100
Design Improvements    Sidamo             38                 -
to Existing CPP I      Kaffa            19
Stations                                57                                 57
Design Improvements    Sidamo             15                                15
to Post CPP I
Washing Stations 1/
I/ Excludes 4 post-CPP I washing stations built on state farms.
Thus the first phase of the project would provide 60 new washing stations
(US$10.6 million) over three years (1984/85--1986/87). The geographic
distribution broadly reflects the relative importance of the two coffee
growing regions listed above. The 40 stations in Sidamo would be
replacements for stations not presently worlcing or expected to close down
shortly because of worn out machinery, polluition hazards or faulty design,
or where existing sites would not allow des:ign modification. Minor design
improvements to incorporate recent technological advances into the 57
existing stations constructed under CPP I (UJS$1.8 million), and the 15
stations built after the completion of CPP I (US$0.3 million) but before
the appraisal of the proposed project was completed, are also included.
The design of the new washing stations should enable Ethiopia to realize
close to the highest price premiums on overseas markets of which washed
Ethiopian mild arabicas are capable. Improvements consist of additional
soak tanks and drying tables, as well as water pollution prevention
devices.
3.06      The washing process would be the same as in the existing CPP I
stations, except that the pregrader would diminish the length of the
washing channels, thereby saving on construction costs. As in the existing
stations, growers would deliver fresh cherries to the reception area where
they would be weighed and the grower paid. From there, the cherries would
be loaded into the hopper which feeds the pulper where most of the skins
and pulps are removed, The beans would then flow into the pregrader which
yields a denser, first grade coffee and less dense, second and third grades
thereby making the final grading in the waEhing channel easier.  From the
pregrader, the beans would pass into the first grade fermentation tanks to
remove the mucilage surrounding the bean, and from there the first grade
only would go via the channels to the underwater soak tanks. After
soaking, or fermentation in the case of second or third grade beans, the
product, now parchment coffee, is sent to the skin drying trays for about 3
hours. Depending on climate, drying on tables would take about 10 days
during which time the coffee is turned regularly in the sun.



- 14 -
3.07     Site selection would be carried out on the basis of the site
selection criteria contained in Annex 1 by a team consisting of a
cooperative officer, a coffee processing engineer, a design engineer and a
roads engineer and where possible an AIDB loan officer. An assurance to
this effect was obtained from GOE at negotiations. In addition to
selecting the site, the team would determine the most appropriate alignment
for the access road. The 40 washing stations and access roads in Sidamo
would be built during the first three years, and the 20 in Kaffa during the
third, during which time the Central Liquoring Unit (CLU) (Chart 3) would
accumulate data on the less well known regions of Wollega and Illubabor,
before appraisal of the 40 stations planned under the second project for
these regions. In order to keep to the implementation schedule (Chart 1),
it would be necessary to complete the site surveys, site adaptation
drawings (required to adapt the standard plan to a specific site) and
bidding documents for the first 15 washing stations by April 1, 1984. This
would enable IDA to review the bidding documents so they may be issued to
prequalified contractors by May 1, 1984, which would be in time to permit
construction to start at the beginning of the 1984/85 dry season. The site
surveys, adaptation drawings and preparation of tender documents are
financed under the PPF (para 3.23). PIU does not have adequate staff for
this purpose, and has engaged consultants for this purpose. Similar work
necessary for the remaining 45 stations under the project, would also be
carried out with the assistance of consultants. Assurances on the above
points were obtained from GOE at negotiations.
3.08     For the 72 stations built under CPP I and thereafter, improvements
would consist of: (a) for the 57 CPP I stations, a recirculation system, 2
soak tanks, extension of the channels for the soak tanks, a shade over the
cherry hopper, and the addition of up to 60 drying tables per station; (b)
for the 11 post-CPP I stations, all of the items in (a) above except the
soak tanks and channel extensions; and (c) for the last 4 stations built to
the original CPP II design, a recirculation system.
3.09     Rural Roads.  The project would:  (a) upgrade 300 km of rural
roads constructed under CPP I (US$4.5 million) to RR30 standard (30
vehicles/day); (b) construct, to RR1O standard, 150 km of new access roads
(US$2.3 million) averaging 2.5 km each to the 60 new stations to be built
under the project; and (c) provide the recurrent costs (US$ 0.2 million)
necessary for the Ethiopian Transport Construction Agency (ETCA) to
maintain the rural roads in (a) above over the project life. The CPP I
rural roads were built to dry weather standards (10 vehicles/day) with the
expectation that they would have to be upgraded if traffic volume
increased. This has happened as the roads have been used all year round.
The upgrading would consist of the addition of select material over a 4 to
5 meter width of roadway and the addition of small structures (culverts,
fords and bridges) to ensure the minimum standards for all weather
serviceability. After ugrading/construction, the rural roads would be
turned over to ETCA for maintenance. An assurance on this point was
obtained from GOE at negotiations. Under their loan agreement with AIDB,
cooperatives would be required to maintain their access roads and to that
end road maintenance foremen would be trained. An assurance on this point
was a:Lso obtained from GOE at negotiations.



- 15 -
3.10     Assistance to Cooperatives.  The f:irst phase of the project would
provide incremental working capital for the first 60 new washing stations'
operating costs (US$ 5.6 million) including cherry purchases, fuel and
transportation, labor and other costs. The funds provided for incremental
working capital would comprise the washing stations' short term borrowings
from AIDB. Under existing loan agreements for washing station construction
between AIDB and cooperatives, there is a condition that cooperatives shall
not obtain short term borrowing from any otlher source. AIDB has indicated
its intentions to continue this condition unider the Project. Another
condition already included and which would be continued under the project
is the requirement that washing stations have to engage full time managers,
processing engineers and accountants. A th:ird loan condition would require
cooperatives to maintain their access roads (para. 3.09).
3.11     Training.  The project would provi:le construction (US$0.9
million), furniture and equipment (US$0.1 m:illion) and staff training costs
(US$0.4 million) for the project training school at Gomma (altitude 1,600
meters). Because of their locations in urban or non-coffee growing areas,
existing educational institutions do not have the necessary training
facilities for practical work on coffee.  The Gomma site (altitude 1,600
meters) would permit instruction in highland conditions characteristic of
the bulk of the Ethiopia's coffee growing a^:eas. The facility would also
have access to the library, laboratories and staff of the nearby IAR
research station at Jimma. There are two washing stations at Gomma, one of
the pre-CPP I design and another of the pos: CPP I design.  Staff from the
Ministry of Agriculture and MCTD would act as instructors. The school
would be able to accommodate 40 trainees at any one time and would consist
of a classroom/seminar room for 40, a small demonstration laboratory for
20, a small building and mechanical workshop for 20 and a dormitory, lounge
and dining room for 40. Two staff houses would also be provided. The
school would eventually form part of a larger training facility being
planned by MCTD for coffee, tea and spices. This larger facility would be
beyond the scope of the proposed project. ['he project training school
would provide training for washing station mnanagers, processing engineers,
and accountants who would be needed to stafE the 60 new washing stations to
be constructed under the project, as well as refresher courses for similar
staff from the existing washing stations, for pulper mechanics employed by
the PIU and for technicans, mechanics, processing officers and cooperative
organizers from MCTD. The quality of such staff in the past has been one
of the main constraints on more effective washing station utilization. The
quality of the instructors and course content are adequate to fulfill the
training needs.
3.12     Trials.  CPP I provided funds to establish coffee research field
stations in different parts of the country. These stations were intended
to: (a) investigate methods of increasing yields from forest coffee by
simple improved practices which could be adDpted by small farmers without
recourse to expensive inputs; (b) assess the new CBD resistant coffee
selections for their performance under different environmental conditions;
(c) investigate and control coffee pests and diseases in different areas;
and (d) introduce and test diversification crops of potential value for
coffee growing areas. However, the stations were only partially successful



- 16 -
because of IAR's preoccupation with the selection of CBD resistant
varieties of coffee. As this program is now nearing completion, IAR is now
in a position to focus on the important activities started under CPP I.
The proposed project would provide facilities (US$ 0.1 million) and,
furniture, equipment, motorcycles and incremental staff costs (US$ 0.1
million) to continue these activities. It would also provide liquoring
equipment, vehicles and incremental staff costs (US$ 0.1 million) for
coffee processing research, and a pulp breakdown pit, press board plant and
incremental staff costs (US$ 0.1 million) for coffee waste research.
3.13     MCTD Planning Department.  The project would provide the local
staff and international and local consultants necessary to carry out
three studies under the supervision of the MCTD Planning Department. The
first, a study of existing methods of collecting, processing and
transporting coffee (US$0.5 million), is intended to lead to more efficient
collection systems, processing techniques, cleaning methods and transport
facilities as well as better storage conditions in the coffee growing
areas. The study would take into consideration the increase in production
under the project and from planned investment in state farms. The second,
updating of the coffee sample survey (US$0.4 million), is intended to
collect and analyze data on 95 of Ethiopia's 127 major coffee growing
weredas. The remaining 32 weredas are being surveyed with UNDP assistance
(17 weredas) and EEC assistance (15 weredas). The following data will be
collected: area under coffee; yield per ha; number of coffee growers;
coffee consumption; age of coffee trees; coffee production; area under
other crops; and land suitable for coffee. The third study consists of the
preparation of an eventual phase III project (US$0.2 million), based in
part on the results of the first two studies. The Planning bepartment
costs necessary to support these activities would amount to US$0.9 million.
3.14     MCTD Development Department.  Coffee processing extension
activities and cooperative promotion activities previously under PIU have
been transferred, respectively, to the Extension Division and to the
Cooperative and Credit Development Division of MCTD's Development
Department (Chart 2).   The project would provide incremental local staff,
vehicles, spare parts, office furniture and operating costs (US$1.2
million) to enable these two divisions to meet the expanded needs for their
services generated by the project. A suitably qualified Coffee Processing
Officer would be necessary to supervise the work of the Extension Division
and an assurance was obtained from GOE at negotiations that such a person
would be appointed by July 31, 1984.
3.15     Coffee Marketing Corporation.  The project would provide CMC with
a combined mill and warehouse for washed coffee. At present, warehouses
are scattered throughout Addis Ababa with consequent loss of efficiency and
higher transportation costs. Milling formerly took place at the
ex-Christen mill, and at the Kaffa I mill alongside the sundried coffee
production lines. To alleviate this situation, CMC has set up two lines of
milling equipment in the existing Omar Sherefa warehouse. While this may
be a short term solution, the massive masonry construction and small inner
city site of the plant make it impossible to expand this facility to
accommodate the increased production of washed coffee which the project
would generate. The new mill and warehouse would be located on an open
site of about 27,000 m2 at the rear of the Kaffa I mill.



- 17 -
3.16     The proposed complex would comprise a warehouse for long term
storage of 15,000 tons of parchment coffee, a short term immediate use
store of 4,500 tons, a clean coffee store fo:: 8,000 tons, a covered loading
area and staff offices (US$7.2 million). Provision would be made for six
lines of milling equipment together with belt sorting and floor picking
equipment (US$0.8 million). Salaries and ope:rating costs (US$1.6 million)
would also be provided. As part of the study of coffee collection,
processing and transport (para. 3.13), the P[U Central Liquoring Unit
(Chart 3) would collect data over the life of the project to provide the
necessary basis for determining the specifications of an eventual larger,
more sophisticated milling and warehousing facility. An assurance to this
effect was obtained from GOE at negotiations.
3.17     PIU.   The project would maintain and strengthen PIU's management
and existing operating departments (Chart 3). Because activities under the
project would be additional to those financed under CPP I, PIU's existing
staff would be financed under the project.   PIU's management would be
further reinforced by the provision of incremental local staff, including
a Deputy General Manager as well as vehicles and incremental operating
costs (US$0.9 million). Vehicles, equipment and incremental operating
costs would also be provided to the Accounts and Administration Department
(US$0.6 million), consisting of the Administration and Accounts Divisions,
and to the Engineering Department (US$1.5 million), comprising the Design
Division, Washing Station/Roads Constructior Supervision Division and
Equipment and Supplies Division. Three new departments would be added to
PIU under the project: the Planning, EvaluE.tion and Monitoring Department,
the Central Liquoring Unit (CLU) and the Workshop. The Planning,
Evaluation, and Monitoring Department's mainr task initially would be to
plan the project civil works and machinery deliveries. Later it would
monitor and evaluate project implementation and prepare the Project
Completion Report (PCR). The project would provide equipment and
incremental operating costs (US$0.1 million' to the Department. The CLU
(US$0.8 million), which would be physically located in the new coffee mill
and warehouse, would be mainly responsible for implementing the incentive
pricing system; it would classify washed coEfee into various quality
categories as a basis for payments to cooperatives. The present
classification system consisting of four grades was established by an
internationally recruited Consultant Liquorer financed under the PPF, who
has been training local staff in its operation. In 1982/83 under the new
classification system, producers of Class I washed coffee were paid Birr 25
per feresula, those of Class II, Birr 22 per feresula, and those of Class
III, Birr 17 per feresula. Producers of Class IV receive no premium. The
CLU collects a Birr 0.02/kg service charge to cover its costs. After the
start of the Project, the classification system would be taken over and
operated by an internationally recruited Chief Liquorer. The project would
also provide vehicles, and incremental salaries and operating costs for the
CLU.
3.18     The workshop (US$ 0.2 million) would be essentially a small
manufacturing facility. It would enable PIU to refurbish used pulper
discs, and locally assemble pulping equipment. Vehicles, machinery and
equipment (US$0.2 million) and operating costs of the facility (US$0.3



- 18 -
million) would also be provided under the project. Currently, pulper discs
are discarded after three years use at considerable cost compared to the
alternative of remetallizing them with a flame spraying process. Through
this process, a special metallic coating is applied to the working
surfaces. The process can be used to provide special protection or to
restore existing surfaces which have become worn. The workshop would also
be used to manufacture the basic pulper frames from steel plates, and to
combine with them imported parts which could not be manufactured locally
(e.g. discs, gears and bearings) into pulpers to equip 50 of the new
washing stations to be constructed under the project, and to replace old
pulpers in existing washing stations. An internationally recruited
Workshop Manager would be needed during the first year to supervise the
construction and start up of the workshop.
3.19     Local appointments to the positions of PIU General Manager and
Chief Administrator and Accountant, would have terms of reference,
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association. Appointments to the positions would be made by February 1,
1984. Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations.
3.20     The consultants, their estimated length of service and man month
cost would be as follows: (a) the study of existing methods of collecting,
processing and transporting coffee (para. 3.13) would require about 36 man
months of consultants services and have an average man month cost of
US$11,800 including salary, costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence. The total cost of the consultancy is expected to be
US$540,000 including local consultants, local staff, local transportation
and local office operating expenses; (b) the internationally recruited
Chief Liquorer hired to head PIU7s CLU (para 3.17) would be engaged for 36
months at an average man month cost of US$10,600 including salary, costs,
international travel and subsistence; (c) the internationally recruited
Workshop Manager (para. 3.18) hired to supervise the construction and
start-up of the workshop would be engaged for 12 months at an average man
month cost of US$7,400 including salary, costs, international travel and
subsistence; (d) the other consulting engagements consist of: (i) a
structural engineer; (ii) a sanitary engineer; (iii) an architect; (iv) an
electrical engineer; and (v) designers for the training facility at Gomma,
the coffee mill and warehouse, and the workshop in Addis Ababa. These
consultants would most likely be local and would consist of some
individuals and some consulting firms.
D. Status of Engineering
3.21     For the new washing stations, the standard design, architectural
details and bill of quantities have been prepared by PIU. The site
surveys, adaptation drawings and tender documents have been submitted to
IDA for review. The rural roads would be upgraded to the minimum standard
set out in ETCA specifications for RR30 roads and the access roads built to
RR10. The ETCA specifications to be used under the project have been
submitted to IDA for review. Detailed architectural work has commenced for
the coffee mill and warehouse, project training school and workshop.



- 19 -
E.  Costs
:3.22        The  project  cost  is  estimated  at  US$57  million  (Birr  118  million)
with a foreign exchange component of US$15 million (Birr 31 million) or
26%. Taxes and duties amounting to US$2 million (Birr 4 million) are
included as well as other local costs of US$40 million (Birr 82 million).
Of the total project amount, US$41 million (Birr 85 million) consist of
:investment costs while US$16 million (Birr 33 million) consist of recurrent
costs- Details of the project costs are set out below:
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING I i,ARKETING PROJECT
PROJECT COST SU11MARY
(Pirr Million)         (US$ Million)        X of
-------------------- ------------------ Foreign  Z of Total
Local Foreis Total  Local Foreien Total Exchan4e Base Costs
A.  ?FD!5 STATICNS                                            22.0      4.2   26.2  10.6       2.0  12.7       16,0        28.4
''. FO'''S                                                 7.7      6.?   14.5   3.7        3,3   7.0       47.3        15.8
C, h^-.STA:TNCCE TO COOPERATIVES                              11.7        -   11.7   5.6          -   5.6         -         12,7
2. %x**AIN;IND                                                 1.5      1.4    2. 9   0.7      0.7   1.4       48.3          3.1
E. T51hLS                                                      0.6      0.2    0.8   0.3       0.1   0.4       28.5          0.8
F, MINISTFY OF CQFFEE AND TEA DEVELOPMENT
1. PLA'NNING DEPARTMENT                                    2.9      1.2    4.2   1.4        0.6   2.0       29.8         4.5
'. IEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
C;>FtP-A'.`TTVE AND CREDIT TIEVELOPMENT DIVISION        1.7      0.4    2.1   0,8       0.2   1.0       18.0          2.3
EXTENSION IDIVISION                                     0.4      0.1    0.4   0.2        0.0   0.2      13,2          0.5
S,1?-Tnt21 DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT                          2.1      0,4     2.5   1.0       0.2   1.2       17,2         2.7
3. CO'EE ?'ARF,ETINR CORPORATION                          11.?      8.0   19,9   5.7        3.9   9,6       40.3        21.6
4. FOIECT IMFLEhMENTATION UNIT                             7.0      2:5    9.4   3.4        1.2   4,6       26.2        10.3
JSub-TC!tal MNINISTRY OF COFFEE AND TEA DEVELOPMENT          23.9    12 2   36,0  11.5         5.9  17.4       33.B        39,1
ictfl BAS LINE COS-TS                                          67.3    24,9   92,1  32.5    12.0  44.5           27.0       100.0
hFic21v-z.   Contindencies                                    6.1      2.8    8,9   3,0       1.3   4.3       31i1         9.6
P7ice contirt5encies                                        14,0       3,4   17,4   6.8       1.6   B.4       19.5        18.9
T,t-l PR"OJEPT COSTS                                            87.4    31,0  118,4  42,2    15.0  57.2          26,2        128,5
The above cost estimates are based on March 1981 prices updated to August
1983 estimated baseline price levels and are derived from recent quotations
and appraisal estimates with the exception Df the costs of the civil works
components (washing stations, roads, coffee mill and warehouse, workshop



- 20 -
and PIU salaries and wages) which are based on December 1982 prices and the
training facility which is based on July 1983 prices, updated as
necessary. Physical contingencies consist of 15% on the civil works
relating to the new and existing washing stations, the coffee mill and
warehouse, workshop, offices and stores, and the training facility at
Gomma, 10% on all other capital costs except professional fees and items
included under the PPF, and on all operating costs except salaries and
wages. No physical contingencies have been provided on the professional
fees, items included under the PPF and on salaries and wages. Price
contingencies total 17% of base costs plus physical contingencies, and have
been estimated at the following percentage rates:
Ethiopian Fiscal Year (FY)                 1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
Project Year (PY)                             1          2         3 1/
-- - -  - -- - - -%--   - -  - - -
(a) Local Currency Costs
(i)  Labor and other                    7.5         7.0       6.0
(ii)  Civil Works                       10.0         9.0       8.0
(b) Foreign Exchange Costs                  7.5          7.0      6.0
1/ Rates used to calculate total project costs.
3.23      A PPF of US$700,000 has been approved to cover the foreign
exchange cost and 50% of the local cost net of duties and taxes in the
amounts and for the items set out below:



- 21 -
Foreign        Local                Of Which
Item                 Exchange       Cost      Total  Spent to Datel/
------US$ thousands---
1.  Staff, consultants,
equipment for site
selection, survey,
design, planning, and
preparation of contract
documents for:
a) first 40 washing         )
stations                )
b) training school          )
c) coffee mill and          )  80          170        250        129.5
warehouse               )
d) extension of coffee    )
liquoring facilities )
2.  Consultant Coffee Liquorer   80              -         80         79.9
3.  Equipment for Coffee
Liquoring Unit                48.5          1.5       50         43.9
4.  Equipment to Rehabilitate
existing milling lines         9            1         10          9.6
5.  Initial equipment for
Coffee Processing Research   8.5            1.5       10         11.4
6.  Establishment of washing2/
station equipment workshop
a) construction                30           75        105          -
b) equipment                  160           35        195          -
190          110       300          -
TOTAL                      416          284        700       274.3
1/  As of end September 1983.
2/  It is now proposed to reallocate workshop funds to Category 1 to cover
increased consultants' costs and to reflect GOE's agreement to postpone
construction of the workshop to Project Year 1.
F. Financing 4/
3.24    Project costs would be shared in the following amounts and
proportions:
4/ All amounts in this section include contingencies.



- 22 -
---US $ Million  ------
Local                           % of         % of Net
Currency    Foreign             Project       Project
Costs     Exchange  Total      Costs         Costs
IDA Credit             20.0        15.0      35.0        61          63
Government             19.4          -       19.4        34          35
Service Cooperatives   0.8          -         0.8         1           2
Net Project Costs      40.2        15.0      55.2       96          100
Taxes and Duties        2.0         -         2.0        4
Total Project Cost    42.2          15.0     57.2       100
3.25      Project financing by category of goods or services is set out in
the following table. The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to
the Government. US$9.4 million of the Credit would be passed on by
Government to CMC as a capital contribution for the construction and
equipping of the coffee mill and warehouse. The capital contribution is
necessary because CMC is presently undercapitalized with a paid up capital
of only Birr 9.7 million. Of this, Birr 2.3 million represents the book
value of the five cleaning plants, with an annual depreciation charge of
about Birr 100,000 per annum. Given the income tax structure (para 5.08)
it is difficult for CMC to accumulate funds to expand and modernize its
physical assets. Further onlending, given the high capital cost of the
mill and warehouse, would only exacerbate the Corporation's already
difficult cash flow. By making an equity contribution for the coffee mill
and warehouse, Government would put CMC's capital base on a sound footing;
and also allow CMC to retain funds through considerably higher depreciation
charges (estimated to be an extra Birr 1 million per annum) thereby
allowing CMC to further modernize its assets. In view of the above an
assurance was obtained from GOE at negotiations that the cost of
constructing and equipping CMC's new coffee mill and warehouse for washed
coffee would be provided by a capital contribution from Government.
3.26      A further US$13.7 million of the Credit as well as US$9.0 million
of Government's contribution to the project (total US$22.7 million) would
be onlent under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and AIDB.
Under this agreement, onlending to AIDB would be repayable at 7.0%
interest, of which US$15.6 million would be repayable after fifteen years
for construction of washing stations and for modifications to existing
washing stations, while the loans for incremental working capital (US$7.1
million) would be lent to AIDB and repaid annually. AIDB would in turn
onlend funds from the IDA Credit to cooperatives for construction of new
washing stations and modifying existing washing stations amounting to
US$13.7 million out of a total onlending of US$15.6 million. The amount
onlent would be not more than 95% of the total cost of the washing stations
and for modifications to existing washing stations. The loans would carry
a rate of interest of 11%, and would be repayable over 15 years. AIDB



- 23 -
would also onlend an amount of US$ 7.1 million to finance the annual
working capital needs of the cooperatives. The working capital loans would
be repaid annually. Assurances on the above financing arrangements were
obtained at negotiations. The rates are positive in real terms and are
expected to remain so in the light of present inflation in Ethiopia of 7%
and projected inflation of about 9-10%. An understanding was reacheAiat
negotations that should changing economic conditions in the future indicate
a need for altering the rate, GOE would take all necessary measures to
ensure that the rate remains acceptable to the Association, throughout the
project period. Agreement was reached with GOE that the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
Project Financing by Category of Goods or Services
--------------------US$ million /-----------------
Service
Category of Goods or Services                COE  Cooperatives  IDA    Total
Civil Works                                  3.6       0.7       28.4      32.7
Machinery and Equipment                      2.6       0.1        2.5       5.2
Vehicles                                    C0.6       -          0.7       1.3
Consultancy Services                         -         -          1.6       1.6
Studies                                      -         -          1.0       1.0
Training                                     -         -          0.5       0.5
Annual Operating Costs
(a) Incremental Salaries and Wages         .9        -          -        3.9
(b)-Annual Spares                          0.1       -          0.3      0.4
(c) Other                                   ,.5      -         -         3.5
Incremental Working Capital2/                1        -          -         7.1
21.4      0.8       35.0      57.2
1/ including contingencies.
2/ of washing stations.
G. Procurement 5/
3.27     Works  (US$32.7 million).  Construction of the washing stations
and access roads, including the retrofitting of the 72 existing stations
and the upgrading of the CPP I roads, totaLling US$22.3 million would be
procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for works and goods (issuled July 1980). Domestic civil
works contractors would qualify for a 7 1/2% preference under ICB
procurement. The washing stations and roads would be grouped into regional
5/ All amounts in this section include contingencies.



- 24 -
packages consisting of the washing stations and roads in Sidamo (US$15.5
million), those in Kaffa (US$6.8 million in total). Each regional package
would be further divided into lots of 2 or 3 new washing stations and
access roads, including any retrofitting or upgrading in the same area, so
as to allow domestic contractors the possibility of bidding on as few as
one lot. Larger contractors could bid by lot or by regional package. The
construction of the coffee mill and warehouse (US$9.0 million), the project
training school at Gomma (US$1.1 million), and the workshop in Addis Ababa
(US$0.2 million), would also be procured by ICB in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. MCTD has conducted a prequalification of small
contractors for 2-9 new stations, having already prequalified four large
foreign and four large domestic contractors for lots of 10 new stations and
above.   To the extent that no bids are received from contractors for
certain works, i.e. because of remoteness, construction would be by force
account. The remaining works consisting of the expansion of 5 geographic-
ally dispersed research facilities (US$0.1 million) would be by force
account.
3.28      Goods (US$6.9 million).  Vehicles and initial spares (US$1.3
million), would be grouped into appropriate bidding packages and procured
by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines for works and goods (issued July
1980). Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower. Because
of the limited number of sources, machinery and equipment, totalling
US$3.1 million for the first 15 new washing stations, the existing washing
stations, the CLU, coffee mill, coffee processing research and the
workshop, would be procured by limited international tender. Machinery and
equipment for the 45 new washing stations built in project years 2 and
3 (US$ 2.0 million) would be manufactured in the workshop facility to be
constructed under the Project in Project Year 1. Spare parts for the
existing and new milling machinery, totalling US$ 0.3 million, would be
procured directly from the manufacturer of the equipment. Miscellaneous
items of machinery and equipment, in packages of less than US$100,000 and
totalling US$ 200,000 approximately, would be procured under competitive
local procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
3.29      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million equivalent and bidding packages for goods over
US$250,000 equivalent would be subject to the Association's prior review of
procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of between 50 and 95
percent of the total estimated value of the works contracts, depending on
the number of washing stations built per contract, and about 70 percent of
the goods contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random
post: review by the Association after contract award.
3.30      Consultants.  The internationally recruited Chief Liquorer,
Workshop Manager, and the specialists to carry out a study of existing
methods of collecting, processing and transporting coffee, for the updating
of the coffee sample survey and for the preparation of an eventual Phase
III project, as well as the locally recruited engineers, architect and
designers would be hired in accordance with the Bank guidelines on the use
of consultants (issued August 1981) and would have terms of reference,



-25 -
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association. Assurances to these effects iwere obtained from GOE at
negotiations. An assurance was also obtained from GOE at negotiations that
the Chief Liquorer would be appointed no later than July 31, 1984.
H. Disbursement
3.31      The proceeds of the credit for the first phase would be disbursed
over three and a half years (Table 1). The disbursement profiles for
agricultural sector projects in Eastern Africa and for all Ethiopian
projects shows that full disbursement has taken an average of 9 years, with
nearly 80% disbursed over the first 6 years. These however are for longer
projects. The limited number of profile averages for three year projects
shows 100% disbursed over three years. The disbursement period of 3 years
assumed for the first phase of the project is based on the higher than
average content of civil works for a three year project. The proceeds of
the Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100% of the costs (net of
duties and taxes) for Categories 1(a) and 2, and 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of Category 2.
---US$ Million---
Category                                                    Amount of Credit
Number                       Description                     Allocated!/
1          Civil Wjrks
(a)  Coffee Mill and Warehouse                   7.4
(b)  Other                                      17.9
2          Vehicles, Machinery, Equipment and Spares            2.8
3          Consultancy Services, Studies, and Training          2.7
4          Refund of PPF Advance                                0.7
31.5
Unallocated                                          3.5
35.0 2/
1/ Approximately 10% of the Credit allocated to Categories 1 to 3 inclusive
has been shown under Unallocated.
2/ Disbursements would be fully documented.
I. Environmental Impact
3.32     Washing stations are heavy consumers of water, and up to now have
discharged highly polluted effluent and cherry skins into local streams.
By introducing a water recirculation system and improved methods of water
and skin disposal, the project would reduce pollution to a minimum.



- 26 -
Lightly polluted water (5% pollutants) would be channeled into farm
irrigation, while heavily polluted water (95% pollutants) would be
channeled into soakaways. Cherry skins would be dried and used as mulch on
the farms. The coffee waste research component would study the use of
cherry skins to make pressboard.  The costs and benefits of improved
pollution control have been taken into account in calculating the economic
rate of return.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      Overall responsibility for implementing the project would lie
with MCTD, specifically with the office of the Permanent Secretary, which
would coordinate the activities of the various entities involved in the
project (Chart 2), and an assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. The Permanent Secretary's Office would be responsible for
overseeing the activities of the PIU in managing the project civil works
and operating the coffee classification system, of the MCTD Planning
Department in setting coffee prices based on the decisions of the Coffee
Price Committee (para 5.10), of the MCTD Development Department in
providing extension and cooperative development services to growers and
cooperatives and training to washing station personnel, and CMC in
collecting, transporting, storing, milling and exporting the washed coffee
crop. It would also liaise with other entities outside MCTD such as AIDB
in the field of credit to cooperatives and the IAR for the research
component.
4.02      Day to day management of the core activities of the project,
including the construction supervision of the washing stations and roads,
coffee mill and warehouse, training school and workshop and the operation
of the coffee classification system as a basis for payments to
cooperatives, would be handled by PIU (Chart 3). To enable it to fulfill
its expanded role under the project, PIU's management and existing
operating departments for Accounts and Administration and Engineering would
be strengthened with additional staff. PIU's existing Engineering
Department, including the Design Division, Washing Station/Roads
Construction Supervision Division and Equipment and Supplies Division,
is considered adequate in terms of staff to handle the increased workload
generated by the project. The new CLU is already operating. A new
Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department and the Workshop would be
established under the PIU.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.03     The PIU Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department, which
would include two locally recruited staff, an economist and a statistician,
would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating washing station



- 27 -
results. It would also prepare semi annual progress reports and submit them
to IDA not later than two months after the completion of each s'ix month
period, and prepare a Project Completion REport (PCR) no later than six
months after the completion of the project.  In addition9 the Department
would submit by May 31 of each year a report detailing the physical and
financial results of all CPP I, post CPP I and CPbP II washing stations.
Assurances on these matters were obtained from GOE at negotiations.
V. TECHNOLOGY, PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND TAXES
A. Technology and Eroduction
5.01      The 60 new washing stations to be constructed under the first
phase of the project would each have a capEocity of 130 6/ tons of clean
coffee per season or 2,500-3,000 kg of fresh cherries per hourO The
potential daily production would be 4 tons of parchment coffee equivalent
to 3.2 tons of clean coffee or enough to fill 6 drying tables. The
estimated drying requirement being 10 days, each of the new stations would
be equipped with 60 drying tables. The parchment store would have storage
capacity for 1,000 bags of 50 kg each.
5.02      Production of exportable clean coffee at full development under
the project is expected to increase from about 14,340 tons in the "wwthout
project" situation to 25,030 tons "with project", an increment of 10,690
tons. This difference would be made up of, first, incremental production
from thle 60 new CPMP II stations (7,440 torLs), and seconds incremental
production from the existing stations through implementation of the
incentive pricing system (3,250 tons). The full effects of incentive
pricing on existing washing stations would be fully reflected in production
by the 1985/86 crop season. Coffee production from the new washing
stations would commence in the 1985/86 fiscal year, increasing in line with
the construction program of these stations, so that full production under
the first phase of the project would be reached in the 1988/89 crop season.
5.03      The present (1982/83) capacity ut:ilization of the existing
washing station averages just 60% i.e. about 78 tons of equivalent clean
coffee per season. This reflects the lack of incentive payments
historically paid to growers to bring ripe coffee cherries to the washing
stations, but this is now being rectified.  With the pre-announced price
incentive to growers to be introduced under the project and increases in
premiums for washed coffee, the production of all washing stations is
expected to increase to close to full capacity i.e. about 95% or 124 tons
of clean coffee out of the production capacity of 130 tons.
6/ This is a normal operating capacity wh:Lch can be exceeded i f sufficient
cherries are delivered. A maximum ope::ating capacity would be about
195 tons of clean coffee per season i.e. about 150% of normal operating
capacity.



- 28 -
B. Markets
5.04      The major world suppliers of coffee are Brazil and Colotab a.
Production fluctuates considerably from year to year mainly due to
meteorological factors in Brazil where frosts of varying severity regularly
affect that country's production. This, together with a fairly small but
steady growth in import demand has resulted in considerable fluctuations in
world prices. The future outlook, based on World Bank estimates, is for an
increase in consumption of 2.4% per annum for the period 1980-85 with a
secular growth trend in world consumption of around 1.3% per annum. World
production declined considerably from 1981/82 to 1982/83 (5.8 million tons
vs. an estimated 4.8 million tons), but is expected to recover to 5.6
million tons in the mid-1980's; then to gradually increase to 5.9 million
tons by the mid-1990's. The world market in top quality milds is a small
market, consisting of no more than 90,000-100,000 tons annually. It is
limited as much by supply as demand, and accounts for only about 2.5% of
total world exportable production. The limited quantity of top quality
washed coffee available for export each year also comes from a relatively
small number of countries, namely Kenya (50,000 tons), New Guinea (10,000
tons), Central America (8,000 tons, mainly from Costa Rica and Guatemala),
Tanzania (8,000 tons), Ethiopia (10,000 tons) and Zimbabwe (8,000 tons).
The price differential between high and low quality coffees tends to widen
in times of abundant supply and to narrow in times of scarcity. Existing
producers of top quality milds are trying to increase their production of
these coffees as a means of raising their export earnings while remaining
within the limitations of the ICO quota system. This applies to Kenya
where the Bank is also financing washing stations.  It also applies to New
Guinea, and to Zimbabwe which is asking for an increase in its ICO quota.
Zimbabwe produces a Kenyan strain of arabica that competes directly with
those Ethiopian coffees without the mocha flavor. Ethiopia is also
planning to treble its production of top quality milds by the early 1990s.
Because of these increases, one may expect the world market in top quality
milds to increase to about 150,000 tons annually. Finally, producing
countries like Ethiopia are also improving the quality of unwashed coffee.
Already premiums of Birr 300-400/ton are being obtained by private
Ethiopian exporters for carefully graded and prepared Jimma 4.
5.05      The implication of the above for prices is that as the
availability of the top quality milds and of high quality unwashed coffees
increases, the historical differential for these coffees will decline. By
how much cannot be forecast with precision. Not only is there no formula
which can adequately cope with coffee market volatility, quality variations
in individual crops, changes in consumer tastes and the political stability
of producing countries, but because the amount of top quality milds is so
small in world terms, general coffee market trends do not apply.
Nevertheless, it is likely that the average premium for Ethiopian washed
over unwashed coffee will narrow from its historical average of about Birr
1,600 to Birr 1,200/ton FOB. This trend has been reflected in the prices
used to analyze the project.



- 29 -
C. Prices
5.06     World price trends notwithstanding, incentive pricing internally
is the key to the effective utilization of the facilities to be provided
under the project, as well as those provided under CPP I. Witbiout a
sufficiently high price for fresh cherries, compared to sundried coffee,
growers would not have enough incentive to rick the cherries at peak
ripeness and transport them promptly to the washing stations. Similarly,
without a pricing system which rewards quality, the cooperatives would have
no incentive to operate the washing stations to their best advantage.
Until very recently, neither the absolute nor the relative incentive
obtained with the result that the existing CPP I stations were operating at
only about 50 percent of capacity for lack of fresh cherries. The quality
of the output was also poor, because farmers picked tho cherries indiscri-
minately and delivered them late, and because the washing stations, in the
absence of any premium for quality, were taking shortcuts to reduce proces-
sing costs. This, in turn, depressed the p:ices offered by overseas
buyers. These problems are gradually being overcome, but further efforts
are required.
5.07      In an average year, CMC has enough funds from the export of
washed coffee to provide the incentives to growers and cooperatives (para
3.03). CMC argues, with some justification, that it is not always
operating at a profit due to short term trading losses 7/. Because the
price at which CMC buys is fixed by MCTD, and because the price at which it
sells is free to fluctuate, this may happen in a falling world market.
Losses such as these, however, are offset by profits when the market is
rising. Moreover, if fresh cherries do not flow into the washing stations,
there will not be any washed coffee to expcrt. The only alternative for
MCTD is thus to offer a high enough price to the producing cooperatives to
enable the latter to offer an adequate price to the grower, which will in
turn induce the grower to deliver fresh cherries to the washing stations
instead of sundrying them. This policy will result in CMC profits at some
times and losses at others, but as long as the premium on world markets is
above its long run cost, it will make a profit.
5.08     However, the income tax obligations of CMC (which are the same for
all public corporations in Ethiopia) do no: allow the Corporation to
accumulate adequate reserves to offset bad years with good ones. The tax
regulations force it to be profitable year to year with the consequent
effects on paying sufficient incentives to farmers. The Corporation
initially pays a 5 percent charge on its capital (which is a deduction in
arriving at its taxable profits), as well as 50 percent on its taxable
profits with the remaining income known as residual surplus payable to the
Government seven months after the fiscal year end. The only deduction
allowed in arriving at residual surplus is an appropriation to a general
reserve which cannot exceed 10 percent of each year's net income after
taxes and which cannot increase the general reserve balance above 30
7/  For the effects on CMC's income from washed coffee, see para 6.10.



- 30 -
percent of the Government's capital contribution in CMC (known as State
Capital) . The effect is a tax rate of at least 90% on profits and over
100% (including the capital charge) in those years in which no
appropriation is allowed to general reserve. This seriously hampers CMC's
ability to withstand any loss years and could prevent the Corporation
paying adequate incentives in a sustained falling market situation.
Equally important, and because the carrying value of its fixed assets upon
nationalization of the former owners was low (being equal to net book value
at that time), annual depreciation charged in the accounts is very low.
This prevents CMC from accumulating funds to replace or renew its assets.
To mitigate the effects of CMC's undercapitalization and the existing tax
laws and to assist CMC in its future expansion and maintenance of its
financial viability, the new washed coffee mill and warehouse would be
financed by equity contribution (para 3.25).
5.09      In the 1983/84 season CMC is paying an average premium for washed
coffee of Birr 22/feresula or Birr 1294/ton. Based on calculations of
washing station operating costs and comparison with the expected price of
unwashed coffee it is likely that this Dremium to the cooperatives for
washed coffee will keep capacity utilization at least at the 1982/83
levels. This would enable the cooperatives to pay a premium of about Birr
0.10/kg for fresh cherries to the grower after deducting the washing
stations processing costs. In percentage terms, this would be at least 25
percent above the price for sundried coffee. This incentive could be
considerably increased, however, by the measures proposed, including
possibly adjusting the surtax on washed coffee, set out in para 5.13.
5.10      For the future, it is necessary to maintain a permanent mechanism
to determine the prices for washed coffee and fresh cherries. The one
presently in existence is a Washed Coffee Steering Committee which is
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MCTD, and includes a representative
from MCTD's Planning and Control Departments, CMC, PIU represented by its
Central Liquoring Unit and the State Farms Corporation. In addition to
deciding the basic premium for washed over unwashed coffee, the Committee
also announces indicative prices for fresh cherries upon their delivery to
the washing station. Under the project the Committee would meet at least
once Ea year and submit to the Government by June 30 of each year its
proposals as to premiums to be paid to cooperatives and growers for washed
over unwashed coffee and for fresh cherries in the ensuing crop season. By
August 15 each year, after prior consultation with the Association,
Government would announce price premiums payable to cooperatives for
different qualities of washed coffees and indicative prices for fresh
cherries in the ensuing crop season. In determining the price premiums
Government would take all necessary measures to ensure that all of the
washing stations financed by IDA maintain a capacity utilization rate of
not less than 85%, commencing from the 1984/85 coffee season. Assurances
on these points were obtained from GOE at negotiations.
5.11      There is another practice which has prevented incentive pricing
for fresh cherries. It is that, in many cases, the grower never received
much more than the price for sundried coffee because part or all of the
premium for washed coffee was diverted by the cooperative management



- 31 -
committees, often in collaboration with the local administration, to the
construction of roads, schools, flour mills and other purposes without the
knowledge or consent of the grower. Government is aware of this practice
and is taking measures to enforce the cooperatives' bylaws which already
prohibit the appropriation of cooperative funds without the consent of the
membership. A. understanding was reached at negotiations that GOE would
take all necessary measures to ensure that the profits of participating
cooperatives would be distributed in accordance with their bylaws. These
measures would help to ensure that cooperatives use their profits mainly to
enhance their washed coffee operations.
5.12     The coffee prices used in the financial and economic analysis have
been derived from World Bank commodity price forecasts (December 1982
edition as updated). The figures for Guatemala Prime Washed (GPW) spot New
York contained in the forecasts have been adjusted for the historical
differential between this variety of coffee and Ethiopia's Jimma 5 unwashed
coffee (Table 2). The price for Ethiopian washed has been derived by
applying the estimated premium for washed ovrer unwashed to the price for
Jimma 5 FOB Assab (Table 3).
D. Taxes
5.13      Exported Ethiopian coffee is subject to various taxes.  These
consist of duty, an MCTD cess and a transaction tax totalling approximately
Birr 300/ton as well as a progressive specific surtax based on the ICO
Composite Indicator Price at New York. As such, the surtax affects washed
and unwashed coffee equally, and thus implicitly favors higher value
washed. First imposed in 1976/77 after the Brazilian frost of 1975/76 to
absorb windfall profits, the surtax is by far the largest element, and
until recently provided Government with up to one-third of its total
revenue although in 1981/82 this was reduced to only 9%. Coffee prices
have declined since 1976/77, with the result that Government established an
interministerial committee to review the surtax. The committee recommended
that the base of the surtax be changed from the ICO Composite Indicator
Price in New York to the FOB Assab price for Jimma 5 which would have the
effect of lowering the entire rate structure. However, the Council of
Ministers has objected in the past to implementing the recommendation until
ways are found to make up the revenue to bE foregone, since the proposed
surtax reduction on all coffee would lead to a material reduction in
Government revenue. Nevertheless, to promote the Government's objective of
converting as much unwashed coffee to washed as possible in order to earn
the additional foreign exchange and to increase capacity utilization at
existing washing stations, currently running at only 60 percent, before
building additional capacity, it would be necessary for GOE to increase
premiums to cooperatives and growers. Since the effects of differential
pricing (para 3.03) on 1983/84 capacity utilization of washing stations are
not yet known and the extent of any price -premium adjustment cannot at
present be assessed, assurances were obtained at negotiations that, not
later than by May 1, 1984, GOE would estabLish premiums for different
washed coffee qualities payable to cooperatives during the 1984/85 coffee



- 32 -
harvesting season that would be mutually acceptable to GOE and the
Association and by the same date GOE would also announce indicative prices
to cooperatives for purchase of fresh cherries from growers.
5.14      Any substantial upward adjustment of premiums would require GOE
to either adjust export taxes on washed coffee or carry out similar
measures. This would ensure that CMC, the principal implementing agency
affected by premium increases would not suffer any loss as a result. Thus
assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would ensure that
CMC would not incur any losses under the project as a result of increases
in washed coffee premiums over the premium levels prevailing in the 1983/84
coffee season 8/. The effects of income and other taxes on CMC's income
are outlined in para 5.08.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
6.01      Several financial prerequisites would be essential to meet
the project's primary objective of a sustained increase in the production
and export of washed coffee. First, growers would have to be paid an
adequate incentive price to bring sufficient fresh cherries to the washing
stations rather than sundrying the cherries; second, new and existing
washing stations would have to generate enough cash to be financially
viable and finally, CMC would have to be able to cover its processing and
marketing costs, taking into account the proposed expansion of CMC witW a
new coffee mill and warehouse.
B. Washing Station Cooperatives 9/
6.02     To date 72 washing stations have been constructed (for 61separate
cooperatives), 57 under CPP I and 15 thereafter. Generally the stations
have been profitable. A study conducted by the Farm Management Research
Unit of MCTD 10/ for the 1981/82 coffee season (the latest available
figures) shows that of the 61 cooperatives operating in that season, 59
operated at an accounting profit. However, the Unit did not do an analysis
of the cash flow of each cooperative. Nevertheless,
8/ The premium levels prevailing in the 1983/84 coffee season are:
Premium per feresula (Birr)
Class 1                25
2(a):             22
(b):            22
3   :             17
4   :             Nil
9/  ALl monetary amounts in this section are in current terms.
10/ A unit within the Ministry's Planning and Programming Department.



- 33 -
AIDB which supervises quite closely its loan portfolio with washing station
cooperatives, has concluded that as of the 1982/83 coffee season
approximately 5 of the cooperatives will have some arrears of principal
while all will have repaid both their long and short term interests (para
6.14). Given the comparatively large capital loans involved to acquire a
washing station and the higher default rate on loans (10%) then percentage
rate of loss making stations (3%), it is apparent that ability to generate
sufficient cash to repay loans is more important than net profit from
operations and the ensuing analysis reflects this.
6.03     The highly escalated cost of new waE,hing stations proposed
under CPMP II over those built under CPP I would be the greatest
single constraint to the financial viability of the project, since
there are conflicting needs to, first, generate cash to repay the
large loans, and second, pay a high enough price to farmers to induce
them to bring fresh cherries to be washed. Loans taken by
cooperatives under CPP I were an average of 13irr 100,000 for a fully
equipped washing station. This figure rose l-o over Birr 200,000 for
those washing stations built after CPP I. Under the Project it is
estimated that to construct and equip a washing station to the
presently approved design in project year 1 (1984/85), the cost would
be Birr 415,000 rising to Birr 494,000 by project year 3 (1986/87).
After deduction of the proposed deposit (para 3.26), washing station
loans taken by cooperatives from AIDB would vary from Birr 394,000 for
washing stations built in project year l to Birr 469,000 for those
built in Sidamo and Kaffa in project year 3.  Assuming the onlending
terms in para 3.26 the annual cash surplus required ts be generated
for the repayment of the long term loan alone would rise from Birr
54,800 for stations built in project year 1 to Birr 65,200 for
stations built in project year 3. This compares with annual
repayments of cooperatives of Birr 15,900 fcr CPP I stations and Birr
35,100 for post CPP I stations.
6.04     In order to achieve a sufficient cash flow to cover this
large fixed cash payment it would be necessary for washing station
capacity utilization to increase above its piresent levels. The
project would accomplish this by requiring t:he site selection criteria
outlined in Annex 2 to be applied, in particular, criteria numbers 2,
3, 5, 10 and 11. This would ensure a potential adequate supply of
fresh cherries. The project would also ensure adequate price
incentives were available to attract fresh cherries to washing
stations. This would be through the maintelnance of an incentive
pricing system administered by a Price Setting Committee (in
consultation with IDA (para 5.10)). Furthe^- incentives would be given
through a system of differential payments based on quality (para
3.17). This has operated for one season (1982/83) under the PPF where
quality and quantity improvement has been evidenced as the coffee
season has progressed. Finally, the differential between washed and
unwashed coffee would be widened by the covenant requiring that price
premiums in 1984/85 be mutually acceptable to GOE and IDA which would
likely require a change in the basis of calculating surtax on washed coffee
(para 5.13).



- 34 -
6.05     The other cash outflows incurred by washing stations are
almost all variable in nature, the most material by far being the cost
of c:offee cherry purchases (about 82% of total cash outflows),
followed then in importance by other operating costs (about 6% of
total cash outflows) and lastly interest incurred on working capital
loans (about 3% of total cash outflows). The washing station loan
repayment which has to be repaid irrespective of output is about 9% of
total cash outflows.
6.06     The financial analysis of the washing station set out in
Table 5 shows firstly the basic data which outlines the underlying
assumption to the analysis. The operating capacity of washing
stations is assumed to increase from 75% in its first year of
operations to 95% from the second year on. Also outlined is the price
that can be paid by washing stations to farmers for fresh cherries and
still provide a cash surplus to pay expenses and repay loans. For
washing stations built in 1983/84 the prices in current terms increase
from Birr 0.68/kg in 1985/86 to Birr 0.72/kg in 1990/91 and Birr 0.77
in 1991/92. The evident fall in real terms between 1984/85 and
1990/91 reflects the falling real price of coffee over the period and
the narrowing differential between washed and unwashed coffee thereby
indicating a greater fall in real prices for the former. Comparable
figures for a washing station built in Sidamo in project year 3
suggests a price to farmers of Birr 0.65/kg in its first year of
operations at 75% capacity, rising to Birr 0.69/kg in the second year
at 95% capacity and then rising to Birr 0.75/kg in 1991/92 when real
prices start to rise again.  However, these amounts are significantly
greater than the comparable prices of unwashed coffee as set out
below:
1985/86    1987/88    1988/89   1991/92
--(Current Birr/kg of Fresh Cherries)--
Equivalent Price
Unwashed Coffee                 0.41        0.41        0.43      0.48
Equivalent Price Washed Coffee
Stations built in 1984/85       0.68        0.71       0.71       0.77
Stations built in 1986/87       n.a.        0.66       0.69       0.75
Price Premium over
Unwashed Coffee to:          Birr   %    Birr  %    Birr  %   Birr  %
Stations built in 1984/85  0.27  66    0.30  73   0.28  65  0.29 60
Stations built in 1986/87  n.a.          0.24  61   0.26  60  0.27 56
The differentials would be sufficient to ensure an adequate supply of
fresh cherries.



- 35 -
6.07      Table 5 also sets out the net cash flow and net profit for a
washing station built in project year 1 (1984/85). This amounts to
Birr 26,471 and Birr 37,776, respectively, in 1985/86 rising to Birr
33,973 and Birr 43,277 in 1990/91, both sufficient to ensure cash is
generated to replace assets. 11/
6.08      The existing CPP I and post CPP I washing stations would
have structural additions as outlined in para 3.08. The cost of these
would amount to Birr 16,000 for the most recently built post CPP I
stations to Birr 86,000 for modifications to CPP I stations carried
out in 1986/87. Since these costs plus existing outstanding loans are
below the cost of new washing stations, and also because loans would
be made from AIDB on the same basis as for CPMP II washing stations,
the net cash flow and net profit would be higher than for washing
stations built under the project. Incentive price measures taken to
increase capacity utilization of new stations would apply to existing
stations as well. Therefore, a separate analysis of these stations
has not been carried out.
C. Growers
6.09      Growers' incomes in the project areas, like those of coffee
farmers generally in Ethiopia, are relative]y high by local standards,
even though they hover around the absolute rural poverty line.   Under
the project, they would increase as a result: of the higher prices
obtained per kilogram of fresh cherries on dIelivery at washing
stations. The situation "with" and "without: project" is set out in
detail in Table 4 and summarized below for t:he regions covered by the
first phase:
11/ Replacement of machinery and equipment would occur after 15 years, the
civil works after 30 years.



- 36 -
Sidamo           Kaffa
-----Birr/--
Family Income from
Harvesting Cherries
Without Project2/                               139            103
With Project2/                                 213             194
Incremental Income                            74              91
% Increase in Coffee
Cash Income                                 56             97
Total Family Income
Without Project2/                              726             484
With Project2/                                 800             575
Incremental Income                            74             91
% Increase in Total
Cash Income                                 30             54
1/ in constant 1983 financial prices.
2/ including amounts consumed by family.
These income levels are to be compared with an estimated absolute
rural poverty level of US$ 65 or Birr 135 per capita, equivalent to
US$ 325 or Birr 675 per household (assuming 5 members). Thus, except
for Sidamo where growers are already slightly above the rural poverty
line, growers under the project would remain below this level.
D. Coffee Marketing Corporation (CMC)
6.10      CMC's audited Profit and Loss Account for the 18 months
ended June 30, 1979 (the last accounts audited) shows income before
tax of Birr 9.2 million on gross sales of Birr 283.8 million. The
unaudited results for the ensuing 24 months to June 30, 1981 shows an
income before tax of Birr 54.3 million on sales of Birr 843.3
million. The 250% (on an annual basis) increase in sales over the
above periods reflects the growing importance of CMC in the washed and
unwashed Ethiopian coffee markets. As part of Credit processing, IDA



- 37 -
requested and obtained a "reasonableness" audit of CMC's Profit and
]Loss Accounts on Washed Coffee for the fiscal years to June 30, 1980
and 1981 as well as an unaudited Profit and Loss account on Washed
Coffee for the year to June 30, 1982. Details of the results are set
out below:
--------Year to June 30- 
1980           1981           1982
Quantity Sold (tons) 1/            7,470           6,615         10,956
Average Sales Price (Birr/ton)  8,687              7,267          6,925
'000             '(00           '000
Birr       _      BLrr    %    Birr    %
Gross Sales 2/              64,893    100   48,073  100  79,204  100
Gross Margin on Sales        9,784      15   10,135   21   6,128    8
Net Operating Income
Before Tax                4,721        7    6,188   13   2,180    3
1/ of clean coffee.
2/ including rejects.
The results show the fluctuating incomes irnherent in coffee marketing
where the time lag between coffee purchases and sales can be several
months (para 5.07).
6.11       The projected income of CMC from washed coffee set out in
Table 6 assumes no such fluctuations since they cannot be predicted.
Instead certain underlying assumptions as 1:o the fixed or variable
nature of costs have been made and from thLs profits determined.
Based on these assumptions the net income before taxes at current
costs is assumed to rise from Birr 2.6 milLion in 1984/85 to Birr 9.7
million in 1991/92 under the project. The capital of CMC attributable
to washed coffee operations is approximateLy Birr 2.4 million (about
25% of its total capital). This should rise to Birr 24.4 million by
1987/88 after construction of the new coffee mill and warehouse and
installation of the required processing lines envisaged under the



- 38 -
project. The annual return of profits before taxes to owners? capital 12/
would be 30% in 1991/92, an adequate return on capital.
6.12      The new facility proposed to be built under the project
would bring the milling and warehousing facilities together. At present
the processing and cleaning of washed coffee takes place in an inner city
site which does not allow for expansion. Processing costs per unit,
already high because of this and from machinery and equipment approaching
the end of its useful life, are increased further by the dispersed
locations of the parchment coffee warehousing facilities. Also inadequate
storage located at several sites in Addis Ababa often causes stoppages in
production or requires sales to be made usually at a disadvantageous time,
in order to create room for new stocks of washed coffee coming from the
production line. It is therefore estimated that locating the warehouse
next to the mill would reduce transportation costs and factory line
downtime, and would allow sales to be made when the market situation was
mcst advantageous to CMC.  The cost savings are reflected in thie reduction
in the estimated washed coffee production cost per ton to Birr 113 from
what would otherwise be a production cost using existing facilities of Birr
150 per ton at full production i.e. in the sixth year after the start of
the Project. The financial analysis of the new facilities, however,
assumes a base production cost of Birr 120 per ton, which allows Birr 7 per
ton for contingencies.
E. Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
6.13     Under the project, AIDB would onlend funds to cooperatives at 11%
per annum while Government would onlend the funds to AIDB at 7% per annum.
AIDB's interest rate spread would be 4% which would be adequate to cover
administrative expenses, expected bad debt losses and provide a profit.
The loans would be long term over 15 years for construction of 40 new
washing stations in Sidamo (Birr 17.1 million), for modifications to
existing washing stations (Birr 5.8 million) and for construction of
20 new washing stations in Kaffa (Birr 9.4 million); and short term (repaid
annually) for incremental working capital totaling Birr 37.7 million over
the first ten years.
6.14     AIDB's experience with loans under CPP I has been satisfactory.
As of December 31, 1982, approximately 27% (Birr 2.05 million) of the Birr
7.6 million total principal amount outstanding had been repaid, even though
the average washing station had been operating for no more than three
washing seasons. This would therefore indicate that existing washing
stations will be able to repay within the 10 year life of the loan.
Further AIDB estimates that of the washing stations with loans outstanding
as of April 30, 1983 (the due date for annual repayment of loans) only Birr
0.3 million of the total outstanding of Birr 4.3 million was in arrears.
AIDB expects to collect all outstanding interest due. Of the stations
12/ State Capital plus 30% because all retained earnings greater than 30%
of paid-up capital is paid to Government as residual surplus (para
5.08).



- 39 -
operating for a full season in 1981/82 it is estimated that about 20% were
operating at less than 50% capacity mainly through an inadequate coffee
growing area in the vicinity of the washing station. MCTD through its
Development Department is taking steps to expand the number of Peasant
Associations and hence supply of coffee belonging to these cooperatives.
Given the experience under CPP I, and taking into account the steps to be
taken under the project (para 6.04) it is estimated the bad debt rate on
the CPMP II washing station loans would not exceed 5% of the total
principal and interest owing. This has been included in the analysis.
6.15     As a result of these assumptions, AIDB's cash inflows would total
Birr 158 million and cash outflows, before deducting incremental
administrative expenses, would total Birr 136 million (Table 7). Therefore
AIDB's net cash flow would amount to Birr 22 million over the first 20
years of the project or an average of Birr 1.1 million for each year the
loans are outstanding.
F. Government Budget
6.16     Table 8 gives projected Government cash flows.  Over the 20 year
period analyzed, incremental cash inflows are estimated at about Birr 180
million and outflows at Birr 141 million, ar excess of inflows over
outflows of some Birr 39 million. The overall excess would be caused
primarily by the 7 percent interest charge on the Government loans to AIDB
and also the difference between amount received and repaid on the IDA
Credit over the 20 years period of the analysis.
G. Accounts and Audit
6.17      MCTD's accounting system and procedures follow those set out in
the Ministry of Finance Financial Regulationas (Revised 1977). The Finance
Division and the independent Internal Audit Unit of MCTD which are
responsible for the implementation of the system and procedures are capable
to ensure all project costs relating to MCTD would be accounted for
separately. The auditors of the Ministry are the Ministry of Finance
Inspection Section which based on past experience are competent to fulfill
their duties. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that separate
project related accounts would be established and maintained, to be
operational from the commencement of project implementation. Such accounts
would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA to enable MCTD to
provide annual project related accounts audited by independent auditors to
be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the fiscal year end.
6.18      CMC's accounting procedures and system of internal control have
only been in operation since mid-1979. Prior to that virtually no accounts
were kept covering CMC's operations from its date of commencing operations
(1975) up to 1979. The Finance and Accounts Department set up since then



- 40 -
and presently well staffed with competent personnel initially prepared
audited financial statements up to June 30, 1977.  Audited financial
statements for the 18 months to June 30, 1979 as well as audited Profit and
Loss Statements of Washed Coffee for the years June 30, 1980 and 1981 and
an unaudited Profit and Loss Statement on Washed Coffee for the year June
30, 1982 have recently been received by IDA. Assurances would be obtained
at negotiations that CMC would maintain its accounting system in accordance
with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practices
acceptable to IDA to enable it to provide annual financial statements to
reflect financial performance and position in so far as the project is
concerned.  The financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1983 and for fiscal years thereafter would be audited by independernt
auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA within 6 months of the
fiscal year end.
6.19      PIU's system of internal control and accounting procedures was
set up and operated satisfactorily under CPP I. With the end of the
project, the numbers and quality of accounting personnel have been allowed
to decline such that considerable strengthening is required if the Unit is
to satisfactorily fulfill its role as the manager of CPMP II. To this end
an assurance was obtained from GOE at negotiations that a Chief Adminis-
trator and Accountant satisfactory to IDA be appointed by February 1, 1984
(para 3.19). Other assurances obtained from GOE were that PIU would
establish and maintain its accounting system in accordance with sound and
generally recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA
to enable it to provide annual financial statements to reflect the
financial performance and position insofar as the Project is concerned.
The financial statements would be audited by independent auditors accept-
able to IDA and submitted to IDA within 6 months of each fiscal year end.
PIU's audited accounts for the fiscal year 1981/82 have been submitted to
IDA.
6.20      AIDB's audited financial statements have  been prepared up to
June 30, 1981. The fiscal year's financial statements to June 30, 1982 are
being audited. The system of internal control and accounting procedures
are operating satisfactorily. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that project related accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound
and generally recognized principles and practices satisfactory to the
Association and that such accounts would be audited and submitted to IDA
within 6 months of each fiscal year end. This timetable is in accordance
with the assurances sought for the AIDB IV Project.
6.21      The washing station cooperatives hire bookkeepers to keep records
of washing station expenses and amounts paid and owing to growers, and to
prepare an annual operational and financial summary. The quality of the
books and the summary although inadequate in the past are generally
improving and a project currently undertaken by the Swedish International
Development Agency is in the process of standardizing, upgrading and
computerizing the summaries within MOA. The cooperative bookkeepers are
trained annually by MCTD (formerly MOA) staff, and both the course content
and quality of instruction are adequate.



- 41 -
6.22       ASC is by past practice the auditor of CMMCG  91U, and AlDB.  ASC's
staff are well qualified and their quality of output is satisfactory.
However, the annual number of audits required to be performed by the
Corporation is increasing presently by about 102% per annum and some delays
are starting to occur in meeting audit idead1l.nes.  By law the
Auditor-Genneral appoints the auditors of the project implementing agencies
and thus is able to appoint other indepenident auditors in the event audit
deadlines are not met.
VXII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Benefits
7.01       The main benefit of phase I of the project w  Mld be increased
production of washed coffee from the 60 new washing stations.  The quality
of washed coffee, both from the new and old washing stations, would also be
improved through improveuents in washiing station design, roads, milling,
grading and liquoring faci'ities and pollutioni control systems.  Based on
the 1990 export parity price premitum (Assab) for washed over unwashed
coffee, these improvements would result in incremental gross foreign
exchange earnings of about US$ 6.1 million Tper annum at full development.
Allowing for the foreign exchange component of operating and replacemeint
costs, incremental net foreign ex2change earnings woulLd be about US$ 5.2
million a year. Other major benefits would be the establishment of a sound
producer price policy for washed coffee, and the creation of long term
employment for 2,700 seasonal and 800 year round workers.
B.  Economic Rate of Return
7.02       Based or incremental eco-oiamic cos-s and benefits (Table 9), the
rate of return for the project is estimated to be 14 percent.  The main
assumptions used in the economic analysis were:
(a)  Economic Life.  The economic life of phase I and of the
project as a whole is assumed to be 30 years, based on the
useful life of the washing station buildings0
(b) Prices. Border prices for traded items were derived on an
export or import parity basis from World Bank projected
prices using the prevailinilg exchange rate of US$1 = Birr
2.07. Local prices for non-traded items were converted to
border prices by applying a standard conversion factor of
0.77 equivalent to the ratic of the official (US$1 = Birr
2.07) to the shadow rate of exchange (US$l = Birr 2.70).
Duties and taxes were deducted.  Unskilled labor was priced
at 75% of its market value, on tie assumption that such



- 42 -
labor would have alternative employment opportunities during
only about 9 months of the year. Incremental labor for
picking fresh cherries has been included in the economic
analysis.
(c) Exclusions. Incremental production from the existing
stations due to the implementation of the incentive pricing
system was excluded from the economic analysis. Further,
due to the difficulty of estimating their benefits, the
research component and the MCTD Planning Department were
excluded. The analysis is thus based on US$24.9 million or
56 percent of the base cost.
C. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      The major risk facing the project would be the failure of the
incentive pricing system, thereby reducing washed coffee output and quality
from both old and new stations. However, by instituting an annual review
of producer prices for washed coffee (para 5.10), the project would
minimize the risk. A large increase in the cost of the new washing
stations could also threaten the achievement of the expected rate of
return, as could an unexpectedly large drop in the price premium for washed
coffee on world markets.
7.04      To test the sensitivity of the project to these risks, the cross-
over value of different 'ariables - the value of the variable at which the
net present value of economic benefits discounted at 10 percent becomes
zero - has been calculated. The results are presented in Table 10. The
conclusions that can be drawn are that the project would still be justified
if:
(a) the capacity utilization of the new washing stations was
only 79 percent instead of the expected 95 percent at full
development;
(b) the project costs increased by 21 percent; or
(c) the price premium for washed coffee at full development fell
from Birr 1,200/ton to Birr 990/ton FOB.
7.05      The project thus has a strong economic justification which is
resistant to adverse movements in key variables.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(a) The site surveys and site adaptation drawings for the new
washing stations to be constructed under the project would be



- 43 -
let o-t to consultants.  Site selection would be based on the
criteria outlined in Annex 1 (para 3a07);
(b) After upgrading, project rural roads would be turned over to
ETCA for maintenance. Under the loan agreement with AIDB,
cooperatives would be required to maintain their access roads,
and for this purpose, road maintenance foremen would be
trained (para 3.09);
(c) A suitably qualified coffee processing officer would be
appointed to the MCTD Extensicn Division by July 31, 1984
(para 3.14);
(d) As part of the study of coffeE collection, processing and
transport (para. 3.13), the PIU Central Liquoring Unit would
collect data over the life of the project to provide the
necessary basis for determining the specifications of an
eventual larger, more sophisticated millirng and warehousing
facility (para 3.16);
(e) Local appointments to the positions of PIUI's General Manager
and Chief Administrator and Accountant, would have terms of
reference, qualifications, terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Associaticn. The PIU's General Manager,
and Chief Administrator and Accountant, would be appointed by
February 1, 1984 (para 3419);
(f) The construction and equipping of CMC's new coffee mill. and
warehouse for washed coffee would be provided by a capital
contribution from Government (para 3.25,;
(g) The interest rate structure for onlending IDA funds and
Government's contribuition to project costs would be 7% from
Government to AIDB, and 11% from A4DB to cooperatives.  Other
onlending terms would provide for 15 year repayment periods
for construction of washing st:ations and for modifications to
existing washing stations; amounts onlent would be no more
than 95% of the total cost of the washing stations and for
modifications to existing waslhing stations; and Teorking
capital loans would be repaid annually (paras 3.26 and 6.13);
(h) The internationally recruited Chief Liquorer, Workshop
Manager, and the specialists 1:o carry out a study of existing
methods of collecting, processing and transporting coffee, for
the updating of the coffee sarnple survey, and for the
preparation of an eventual Phase III project, as well as the
locally recruited engineers, architects and desigaers would be
hired in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on the use of
consultants (issued August 1981) and would have terms of
reference, qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association. The Chief
Liquorer would be appointed no 'Later than July 31, 1984
(para 3.30).



- 44 -
(i) PIU's Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department would
prepare semi annual progress reports and submit them to IDA
not later than two months after the completion of each six
month period and prepare a PCR no later than six months after
the completion of the project. It would also submit by May 31
of each year a report detailing the physical and financial
results of all CPP I, post CPP I and CPMP II washing stations
(para 4.03);
(j) A Washed Coffee Steering Committee, chaired by the Permanent
Secretary, MCTD, would meet at least once a year and submit to
the Government by June 30 of each year its proposals as to
premiums to be paid to cooperatives for washed over unwashed
coffee and to growers for fresh coffee cherries in the ensuing
crop season. By August 15, after prior consultation with the
Association, Government would announce price premiums payable
to cooperatives for different qualities of washed coffee and
indicative prices payable to growers for fresh cherries in the
following crop season. In determing such price premiums GOE
would take all necessary measures to ensure that all of the
washing stations financed by IDA maintain a capacity
utilization rate of not less than 85%, commencing from the
1984/85 coffee season (para 5.10);
(k) Not later than May 1, 1984, GOE would establish premiums for
different washed coffee qualities payable to cooperatives
during the 1984/85 coffee harvesting season that would be
mutually acceptable to GOE and the Association and by the same
date GOE would also announce indicative prices to cooperatives
for purchase of fresh cherries from growers.
(1) Government would ensure that CMC would not incur any losses
under the project as a result of increases in washed coffee
premiums over the premium levels prevailing in the 1983/84
coffee season (para 5.14);
(m) MCTD and AIDB would establish and maintain separate project
related accounts, to be operational from the commencement of
project implementation. Such accounts would be maintained in
accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to the Association to
enable MCTD and AIDB to provide annual project related
accounts audited by independent auditors to be submitted to
the Association no later than 6 months after the end of the
fiscal year (paras 6.17 and 6.20); and
(n) CMC and PIU would maintain their accounting systems in
accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to the Association to
enable them to provide annual financial statements to reflect
their financial performance and position insofar as the
project is concerned, and would submit annual financial



- 45 -
statements audited by independent auditors to the Association
within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year (paras 6v18 and
6.19).
8.02      Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between GOE and AIDB and its ra.tification by GOE would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para 3.26).
8.03     Subject to the above assurances being obtained, the proposed
project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR, 33.2 million (equivalent to
US$35.0 million) to the Government of Ethiopia.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Typicol Bird's Eye View of Factory
-   WATER TOWER
SkIN SEPARA1ION  X
TOWER
rzi
v*iot aank-24806



- 47 -
Table 1
E=IOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MAR=EIING PRaJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements oi IDA Credit
IDA Disbursements'/                      Disbursement Profile
IDA Fiscal    Quarter Ended         -US$ Mllion-                               Cumulative % Disbursed
Year                               By End of  Cumulative     Cunulative      Ethiopia   Agric. Sector
Quarter                  % Disbursed                Eastern Africa
1984        December  1983 2/        0.5         0.5            1.4             0.2          0.2
March     1984           0.2         0.7
June      1984           0.3         1.0            2.9            2.1           2.3
1985        September 1984            2.0        3.0
December  1984           2.4         5.4           15.4            6.0           6.4
March     1985           2.8         8.2
June      1985           2.8        11.0           31.4           11.4          12.2
1986        September 1985           2.2        13.2
December  1985           2.6        15.8           45.1           18.4          19.5
March     1986           3.1        18.9
June      1986           3.1        22.0           62.9           26.5          28.1
1987        September 1986            2.5       24.5
December  1986           3.0        27.5           78.6           35.4          37.6
March     1987           3.5        31.0
June      1987           3.5       34.5            98.5           44.6          47.5
1988        September 1987           0.3        34.8
December  1987           0.2        35.0          100.0           53.7          57.2
March     1988
June      1988                                                    62.6          66.5
1989        September 1988
December  1988                                                    71.1          74.8
March     1989
June      1989                                                    78.73/        82.1
1/ Expected date of signing:         December 1983
Expected date of effectiveness:  March 1984
Expected campletion date:        June 1987
Expected closing date:           December 1987
2/ Represents PPF.
3/ Fully disbursed by second half of Year 8.



-48 -                                        TABLE 2
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Unwashed Coffee - Derivation of Financial and Economic Pricesl/
(1983 Constant Prices)
 ------- 1983                     1987 --           --        1990 ---
Economic    Financial   Economic    Financial    Economic   Financial
CIF New York US$                          2,970.00      2,970.00    2,640.00    2,640.00         2,660.00   2,670.00
Freight and Other Charges Assab to
New York                                  330.00        330.00        330.00       330.00        330.00      330.00
FOB Assab US$                             2,640.00      2,640.00    2,310.00    2,310.00         2,330.00   2,330.00
FOB Assab Birr                            5,464.80      5,464.80    4,781.70    4,781.70         4,823.10   4,823.10
Taxes and Duties
Surtax                                        -         2,260.00          -        1,810.00          -       1,840.00
Duty                                           -           150.00         -          150.00          -         150.00
MCTD Cess                                     -             50.00         -           7O.0O          -          50.00
Turnover Tax                                  -             58.92         -           S4.35          -          54.57
Total Taxes and Duties                        -         2,518.92          -        2,064.35          -       2,094.57
Financial and Insurance Charges
Bank Charges                                 42.91         60.11         37.54        52.60         37.87       53.05
Interest                                      -            38.71          -           33.87          -          34.16
Insurance                                    21.45         30.06         18.77        26.30         18.94       26.53
Fees, Stamps                                  7.14          10.00         7.14        10.00          7.14       10.00
Weight Loss Addis to Assab                   10.67           7.29         9.27         6.67          9.36        6.70
Total Financial and Insurance Charges        82.17        146.17         72.72       129.44         73.31      130.44
Cleaning and Other Costs
FOB Handling                                 37.83          53.00        37.83        53.00         37.83       53.00
Miscellaneous                                  3.57          5.00         3.57         5.00          3.57  -f  5.00
Transport to Assab                          110.00         110.00       110.00       110.00        110.00      110.00
Bags                                         28.55         40.00         28.55        40.00         28.55       40.00
Cleaning Costs                               64.24          90.00        64.24        90.00         64.24       90.00
Cleaning Losses                             106.74          72.87        92.75        66.70         93.59       66.99
ECMC Overhead Costs                          32.12          45.00        32.12        45.00         32.12       45.00
Total Cleaning and Other Costs              383.06         415.87       369.06       409.70        369.91      409.99
PRICE AT AUCTION                     4,999.57      2,383.85    4,339.91    2,178.22        4,379.89   2,188.09
Interior Costs
Interest                                      -             18.83         -           17.21          -          17.29
Middlemen's Profit                          107.06          71.52        92.93        65.35         93.79       65.64
Transport to Auction                         57.00          57.00        57.00        57.00         57.00       57.00
Municipality Tax                              -             23.27         -           21.21          -          21.31
Bags                                          12.85         18.00        12.85        18.00         12.85       18.00
Hulling and Grading Cost                     28.55         40.00         28.55        40.00         28.55       40.00
Handling                                     37.83          53.00        37.83        53.00         37.83       53.00
Transport Farm to Hulling and Grading
Factory                                    70.00         70.00        70.00         70.00         70.00       70.00
Total Interior Costs                        313.29         351.62       299.16       341.77        300.02      342.24
PRICE TO FARMER PER TON OF CLEAN
COFFEE                               4,686.28      2,032.24    4,040.74    1,836.45        4,079.86   1,845.85
PRICE TO FARMER PER TON OF
SUNDRIED COFFEE                      2,343.14      1,016.12    2,020.37        918.23      2,039.93      922.93
EQUIVALENT PRICE TO FARMER PER
TON OF COFFEE CHERRIES                 781.05        338.71       673.46       306.08        679.98      307.64
EQUIVALENT PRICE TO FARMER PER
KG OF COFFEE CHERRIES                    0.78          0.34         0.67         0.31          0.68        0.31
1/  A:Ll amounts are shown in Birr per ton.of clean coffee unless otherwise stated.



- 49 -
TABLE 3
ETHIOP1IA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Washed Coffee - Derivation of Financial and Economic Pricesl!
(1983 Constant Prices)
---------1983--------   ---------1987--------   --------1990--------
Economic    Financial   Economic    Financial   Economic   Financial
CIF Hamburg USS                             3,655.00      3,655.00   3,228.00        3,228.00   3,152.on    3,152.00
Freight and Other Charges Assab to
Hamburg                                     242.00        242.no      242.00         242.00      242.00       242.00
FOB Assab US$                               3,413.00      3,413.00   2,986.00        2,986.0n   2,910.00    2,910.00
FOB Assab Birr                              7,064.91      7,064.91   6,181.02        6,181.02   6,023.70    6,023.70
Taxes and Duties
Surtax                                          -         1,810.00  /      -         1,360.00 2/    -         1,390.00 2/
Duty                                            -            150.00        -           150.00        -           150.00
MCTD Cess                                       -             50.00        -            50.00         -           50.0n
Turnover Tax                                    -             99.12        -            90.61        -            86.94
Total Taxes and Duties                          -         2,109.12         -         1,650.61        -        1,676.94
Financial and Insurance Charges
Bank Charges                                   55.47          77.71       48.53         67.99       47.30         66.26
Interest                                        -            50.04         -            43.78        -           42.67
Insurance                                      27.74         38.86        24.27         34.00       23.65        33.13
Fees, Stamps                                    7.14          10.00        7.14         lo.no        7.14         10.00
Weight Loss Addis to Assab                     20.00          13.34       17.48         12.13       17.01         11.60
Total Financial and Insurance Charges         110.43        189.96        97.41        167.90       Q5.09       163.65
Cleaning and Other Costs
FOB Nandling                                   37.83          53.00       37.83         53.00       37.83         51.0O
Miscellaneous                                   3.57           5.00        3.57          5.00        3.57          5.00
Transport to Assab                            110.00         110.00      110.00        110.00      110.00       110.00
Bags                                           28.55         40.00        28.55         40.00       28.55        40.00
Cleaning Costs                                 78.52        110.00        78.52        110.00       78.52       110.00
ECMC Overhead Costs                            39.26          55.00       39.26         55.00       39.26         55.00
Total Cleaning and Other Costs                297.73        373.00       297.73        373.00      297.73       373.0n
PRICE AT ADDIS                        6,656.75       4,392.84   5,785.88       3,989.51   5,630.88    3,810.11
Transport to Addis                             60.00          60.00       60.00         60.00       60.00        60.00
PRICE TO COOP PER TON
OF CLEAN COFFEE                       6,596.75       4,132.84   5,725.88       3,929.51   5,570.88    3,750.11
PRICE TO COOP PER TON OF
PARCHMENT COFFEE                      5,277.40       3,466.27   4,580.70       3,143.61   4,456.70    3,000.09
Processing Costs per ton of Clean
Coffee                                      618.15 3/    987.69  /  488.43 4/    981.65 4/  480.68 4/   966.82 4/
PRICE TO FARMER PER TON
OF CLEAN COFFEE                       5,978.60       3,345.15   5,237.45       2,947.86   5,090.20    2,783.29
PRICE TO FARMER PER TON
OF COFFEE CHERRIES                       996.43        557.53      872.90        491.31       848.37       463.88
PRICE TO FARMER PER KG
OF COFFEE CHERRIES                         0.99          0.56        0.87           0.49        0.85         0.46
1/   All amounts are shown in Birr per ton of clean coffee unless otherwise stated.
2/   On the assumption that as provided under the project surtax reform will he necessary in order to pay adequate
premiums.
3/   Relates to processing costs of pre CPMP II washing stations only, at 601 capacity utilization.
4/   Relates to processing costs of CPMP IT washing stations only, at 952 capacity utilization.



- 50 -                                  TABLE 4
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
TENANTS INCOMES BY REGION WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
(Birr - Constant 1983 Financial Prices)
WITHOUT PROJECT                WITH PROJECT 1/
SIDAMO       KAFFA            SIDAMO       KAFFA
BASIC DATA
Number of Families within Vicinity
of Washing Station                          2,642        2,698             2,642        2,698
Average Size of Landholding for all
Crops (ha)                                       1.07         1.23              1.07        1.23
Average Yield per Farm of Red
Cherries (kg)                                 352           332              352          332
Average Quantity of Coffee (kg)
Consumed per Family                            26            30                26          30
% of Red Cherries Picked Sent to
Washing Station                                23             -                80          83
kg of Red Cherries Picked Sent to
Washing Station                                82             -               281         275
kg of Red Cherries Picked which are
Sun Dried                                     269           332               71           57
NET INCOME FROM COFFEE
Value of Red Cherries Sent to
Washing Stations                               56             -              191          176
Value of Sun Dried Cherries Sold                  75           93                14           8
Value of Sun Dried Cherries Consumed               8            9                 8           9
Total Income from Sun Dried Cherries              83          103                22          18
TOTAL NET INCOME FROM PICKING
COFFEE CHERRIES                            139          103               213         194
TOTAL CASH INCOME FROM PICKING
COFFEE CHERRIES                            131           93               205         184
NET INCOME FROM OTHER CROPS
Income from Teff                                  22           94                22          94
Income from Sorghum/Millet                      370 2/         65               370 2/       65
Income from Maize                                  -          164                 -         164
Income from Barley/Wheat                         165           44               165          44
Income from Pulses                                 -           10                 -          10
Income from Oilseeds                             10             6                10           6
Income from Ensete                                21            -                21           -
TOTAL NET INCOME FROM OTHER CROPS            587           381               587         381
TOTAL NET INCOME PER FAMILY                  726           484              800          575
SUBSISTENCE INCOME PER FAMILY                477          314               477          314
CASH INCOME PER FAMILY                       249           170              322          260
Z Cash Income from Red Cherries                   22            -                59          68
% Cash Income from Sun Dried Cherries
Sold                                           30            55                 4
% Cash Income from Coffee                        53            55                64          71
Incremental Coffee Income                          -            -                73          91
% Increase in Coffee Cash Income                   -            -                56          97
% Increase in Total Cash Income                    -            -                30          54
1/ At full development.
2/ Includes maize.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
WASHED COFFEE
WASHING STATIONS CONSTRUCTED IN 1984/85
INCOME STATEMENT AND CASH FLOW
Current Financial Prices l/
(1983 = 100)
Year 2/        1                2                 3                4                 5                 6                 7 3/
FY      1q85/86           1986/87          1987/88           1988/89          1989/9n           1990/91          1991/.42
BASIC DATA
Assumed Capacity (F)                         75                 95               95                95                95               95                95
Clean Coffee Production (Tons)               97.50             123.50           123.50            123.50            123.50           123.50            123.50
Parchment Coffee Production (Tons)          121.88             154.38           154.38            154.38            154.38           154.38            154.38
Conversion Factor Coffee Cherries to
Parchment (x)                              20.80              20.80            20.80             20.80             20.80            20.80             20.80
Coffee Cherry Purchases Necessary to
Obtain Output (Tons)                      585.94             742.19           742.19            742.19           742.19            742.19            742.19
Price to Farmer/kg of Coffee
Cherries (Birr)                             0.68               0.71             0.71              0.71              0.71             0.72              0.77
OQa
1/  Current up to 1991.  Thereafter 1941's inflation rates used.
2/ Year from commencement of operations of Washing Station.
3/ Per year thereafter.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
WASHED COFFEE
WASHING STATIONS CONSTRUCTED IN 1984/85
INCOME STATEMENT AND CASH FLOW
Current Financial Prices 1/
(1983 - 101)
Year 2/        1                2                 3                4                 5                 6                 7 3/
FY         1985/86          1986/87           1987/88          1988/89           1989/90           1990/91         1991/92
CASH FLOW (Birr)
CASH INFLOWS - WASHING STATION          529,429          673,009           676,814          679,642           679,424           696,540           740,259
CASH OUTFLOWS - WASHING STATION
Total Operating Cost and Costs          432,741          567,205           570,696          573,291           573,091           588,791           628,896
of Coffee Cherry Purchases
Interest on Crop Purchase Advance        14,121           18,733            18,763           18,761            18,659            19,123            20,429
Interest on Loan for Other                1,296             1,473            1,569             1,663            1,757             1,853             1,975
Operating Costs
Washing Station Loan Repayment           54,800           54,800            54,800           54,800            54,800            54,800            54,800
Fixed Asset Replacement                       -                 -                -                 -                -                 -
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS                  502,957          642,212           645,827          648,514           648,307          664,567           706,100
EXCESS OF CASH INFLOWS OVER
CASH OUTFLOW                       26,471            30,797           30,987            31,128            31,117           33,973            34,159
1/  Current up to 1991.  Thereafter 1991's inflation rates used.                                                                                                          (D
2/ Year from commencement of operations of Washing Station.
3/ Per year thereafter.



- 33 -                                                                       Table 5
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MAMIETING PROJECT
WASHED COFFEE
WASHING STATIONS CONSTRUCTED IN 1984185
INCOME STATEMENT AND CASI FLOW
Current Financial PricesT 1
(1983 - 100)
Year 2/            1                2                3                4                 5                6               7 3/
FY             1985/86          1986/87          1987/P8          1988/89          1989190           1990/91         1991/42
tNCOME STATEMENT (Birr)
PRICE TO COOP PER TON OF                               4,344            4,360             4,384            4,403            4,401            4,512            4,795
PARCHMPNT COFFEE
REVENUE - WASHING STATION                            529,429          673,009           676,F14          679,642          679,424          696,540          740,259
Cost of Coffee Cherry Purchases                         396,368           525,851          526,f70          526,618          523,766           536,782          573,452
Other Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages                                        10,431           11,134           11,F37           12,549           13,252            13,955           14,899
Daily Paid Laborers                                        5,801            7,844            8,:39            8,941            9,336             9,831           10,496
Per Diem and Transportation                                2,285            2,439            2,'94            2,750            2,904             3,058            3,264
Fuel and Lubricants                                        2,033            2,757            2,'137           3,113            3,291             3,471            3,699
Drying T'ahle Materials                                    2,086            2,227            2,167            2,510            2,650             2,7ql            2,980
Repairs and Maintenance                                    2,110            2,252            2,194            2,538            2,680             2,822            3,013
Bags                                                         701              960            1,1)27           1,089            1,154             1,223            1,296
Postage, Telephone and Telegraph                           1,619            1,748            1,1t71           1,983            2,102            2,229             2,361
Transport Cost - Coffee Cherries                           6,609            7,080            7, 42            7,995            8,453             8,919            9,500
Fros Farm to Washing Station
Miscellaneous                                              2,698            2,914            3, L19           3,305            3,503            3,713             3,935
TOTAL OTHE8 OPERATING COSTS                           36,373            41,354           44,526           46,672           49,324           52,010           55,443
TOTAL OTHER OPERATING -AND COFFEE
CHERRY PURCHASES COSTS                             432,741          567,205          570,696          573,291           573,091          588,791          628,896
Interest on Crop Advance                                 14,121            18,773           18,763           18,761           18,659           19,123           20,429
Interest on Loan for Other                                 1,296            1,473            1,568            1,663            1,757            1,853             1,975
Operating Costs
Interest on Washing Station Loan                          27,107           27,107           27,107           27,107           27,107           27,107            27,107
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSES                               42,523           47,314            47,438           47,530           47,523           48,083           49,5II
Depreciation 4/                                           16,389           16,389           16,389           16,389           16,389           16,389           16,3P9
TOTAL EXPENSES                                       491,653          630,908          634,523           637,210          637,003          653,263          694,796
INCOME FOR THE YEAR                                   37,776           42,101           42,291            42,432           42,421           43,277           45,461
1/  Current up to 1991.  Thereafter 1991's inflation rates used.
2/  Year fros coamencement of operations of Washing Station.
3/ Per year thereafter.
4/  Depreciation will change based on the replacement cost of drying tables and nachinery and equipment replaced in Years 15 and 3n.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
ETHIOPIAN COFFEE MARKETING CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT FROM WASHED COFFEE OPERATIONS
Current Financial Prices I,
1983/84       1984/85        1985/86      1986/87        1987/P8         lq88/89     18Q/9O         1990/91         1991 /42
Sales
Gross Sales Revenue FOB                  85,838,657   101,874,615   131,306,062  151,468,317   191,051,655   205,590,413  213,465,852   224,346,393    247,661,838
Export Taxes and Tuties                  25,625,808    30,673,121    39,428,810   48,898,249    65,084,333        73,967,905   80,74R,032    R7,586,978    102,031,291
NET SALES REVENUE                     60,212,849    71,201,494    91,877,251  102,570,068   125,967,353    131,622,508  132,717,821   136,759,415    145,630,547
Cost of Sales
Cost of Parchment coffee                 52,644,006    61,745,981    78,887,585   87,278,591   106,317,335    110,195,576  110,160,284   112,935,360    120,023,856
Processing and Distribution Costs 2/      4,003,650      5,026,876     6,298,412    7,440,483      9,584,423      10,508,323   11,159,840    11,R51,725       12,586,862
COST OF SALES                         56,647,656    66,772,857    85,185,997   94,719,074   115,901,758    120,703,899  121,320,124   124,787,085    132,610,718
GROSS MARGIN                           3,565,193      4,428,637     6,691,254    7,850,994    10,065,595       10,918,609   11,397,697    11,972,330       13,019,829
Administrative and General Expenses 2/
Administrative and Selling Expenses         713,462        772,692       893,248       948,889      1,075,427      1,008,761    1,098,761       1,09R,761       1,098,761
Interest Expense                            592,852        699,542       894,R84    1,029,433      1,294,856       1,390,P71    1,441,546       1,513,746      1,675,344
Other Depreciation 31                       269,430        275,266       277,R46       294,1R7        309,462        371,115       332,028        343,604         355,894
Miscellaneous Expense                        63,602         80,474       108,227       132,007        170,423        187,193       199,101        211,766         225,239
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE
AND GENERAL EXPENSES                 1,639,345     1,827,974      2,174,205    2,404,516      2,850,168       2,997,939    3,071,436      3,167,878       3,355,237
NET INCOMF BEFORE TAXES               1,925,848      2,600,663     4,517,049    5,446,478      7,215,427       7,920,669    8,326,261       8,804,452      Q,664,592
INCOME TAXES 4/                          962,924     1,300,331      2,258,525    2,723,239      3,607,713       3,960,335    4,163,130      4,402,226       4,832,296
NET INCOME FROM WASHED COFFEE            962,924      1,300,331     2,258,525    2,723,239      3,607,713       3,960,335    4,163,130      4,402,226       4,837,296
I/  All amounts are in Birr.
2/  The costs are based initially on the costs included in CMC's audited Washed Coffee Profit and Toss Accounits for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1980 and Junie 30,
1981, and the unauidited Washed Coffee Profit and Loss Account for the year ended June 30, 1982.  Fluctuations in 8tock levels have been ignored in this analysis.
3/  On assets other than those whose depreciation charges are included in Processing and Distribution Costs.
4/  At 50%2  Taxable income and accounting income are virtutally the same under Ethiopian income tax regulations.
5/ Net Income before taxes is slightly lower than at present due to a consistently high incentive price paid to cooperati-7es.



TA3LE 7
F.T"T(IA
9PFAT   1T9FFP  W0rYSS341  41h3 Wt1rF  045F0
tXdT flIT8AT, AN) T503!OOTAL rP 01,ST94  UNi:
Fi-anial   Psi1tr Lr Ir tho Pmiet
Year I      Yr 2        Yar 3        Yor 4      Yar S      Yar 6       Y-r7    YerA                 Y      earO In        Yar ll-2n            Total
rash 71/s                                                    14          19P5/T*     1OQ6/P7    14.3/M4    14P8/P4           1449/1    T 91    1971/q2    1442.93      1993/94     1994/95-2(03/2n34
nft lwss
1. Funds onlent by Crrent for:
a) Wsshin,3 Station I-totrootion Ltas                 5,919        6,409      14,CP4/           -          -          _          -           _          _          _                   _          26,5n2
h) l6oififatico of Pxititg WedJ.9o Sltatioos            092        1,305       3,439           -           -          -          -           _          _          _                               5,736
c)  TooronntI 11JOdOLw rCapital hooo 1/                   -       6,714        7,P8       IP,9721     4,R59           -          _           _          _          _                   _          37,600
Total of FXdos rnLeot by Gvr,eoot                 6,911       14,523      25,411      10,223      4,859                                                                                       64,027
2. ROpays--t by iooperotioos of Loans for:
a) Waohinr  Statirno 2-tn,cti-n
let 15 statirns io 5id-.o                             -         023          823         873        023         433        823        923         923        P23              4, 93           12,345
56,6t 15 statloto Sid2no                              -           -          9r4         941        014         o,4        q41        9n4         041        0I4               6,32P          13,563
lsot 1n tstirns io Sids!7                             -            -           -         646        646         646        646        646         646        646               5,16P           9,64r
20 Statir in taffa                                    -           -            -       1,3 6          6 ,394  1,136      1,306      1,3f6       1, 6       1,                1l,440           19.594
Total POri_pal -As Tane-not R-ia-ed                   -          023       1,727       3,67~4     3,679       3.629      3,670      3,672       3,67q      3,672              26,PP2          55,105
leso Realiood Pad De4to 2/                            -          (42)        (471       (1943      (I441       (IP4)      (144)      (104)      (144)      (/14)             (1,3453          (2,764)
Net Or4oipol and Tntersst Roseiwad                    -         724        1,640       3,405      3,405       3,499      3,495      3,495       3,405      3,49              295,S37          52,425
6b) iification of Fxistis WUashir Statios
Ist 13 ottiono                                        -         124          124         124        124         124        124        124         124        124                744            1,8ff
Nt 20 staUtins                                        -           -          164         164        164         164        164        164         164        164              1,14P.           2,460
1ASt 39 station                                       -           -            -         431        431         431        431        431        431         431              3,440            6,465
'et Pritcipal ad Intermest Rdeisad                    -         124         27P          710        719         710        210        710         710        719              5,34n           10,785
c)  Incntal W16ki46,  Capital 3/                              -          212         502       1,153       1,326      1,326      1,326       1,326      1,326      1,326              13,264          23,r42
100  Ros8a,ixe Bad reobts 4/                          -         (12)         (26)       (OR)        (67)        (67)       (672       (67)        (67)       (67)               (663)         (1,155)
N%t Ttterest Recei-d                                  -         2n4          476       1,(03      1,290      1,259       1,25Q      1,259       1,259      1,275             12,5q7           31,937
-   -41.T11 91 Rolmds                                  6,011       15,672      27,902      23,716,   1O,916        5,657      5,657       5,657      5,657      5,657              44,919         157,034
lOtfloas
1. Ltot to Cao1eratlveo for:
a)  Os,atrootion of Wohina SUtiaona                   5,.19       6,490       14,394           -                      -          -          -           -          -                              26,302
b) Mlldifiratirn of Fxiting WUo     Sttions             092       1,305        3,43           _          -           _          _          _           _          _                  _            S,736
c)  Incrrenutl lonbig Capital Loono                       -       6,710        7,0M       IP,223      4,5Q0          -           _          _           _          _                  _           37,600
Total Fad.s lnt by A1DB                          6,911      14,523       25,411      18,223      4,p5s                                                                                      60,927
2. Fepid to CoVMolelt:
a)  On h l n* Srations Lqans
Ist 15 Sttlons i Sid_o                                -         690         6On          690        63n         65n        630        630         630        650              3,Q433           0,750
i7ot 15 StUtis in Sida.                               -           -          714         714        714         714        714        714         714        714              4,994           10,7,1
Loot 10 Stiatona io Sida-                             -           -            -         515        515         515        515        515         515        515              4,120            7,725
20 Stations in Kaffe                                  -           -            -           -        %7         97          f67        447         ff7        967              7,736           13,934
Total l0i-rionl and Tqtenast Fepaid                   -         650        1,364       1,479      2,446       2,946      2,P46      2,R46       2,846      2,446              2n,754          41,723
b)  On Loan. for Pbdifioatiqq of Eidstin,e
Washing Sttiona
lst 13 qttion                                         -         1           I9         10        (140      1m7          15 1C        0        1O3         140                654            1,635
N-elt 20 Sttiq-s                                      -           -          143         141         143        143        143         143        143        143               ] 19            2,145
Loot 39 Sttions                                       -           -            -         37P        372        329         370        372         374        378              3,024            5,670
Total Orboolpal ad 7ntenast Rpaid                     -          140         252         630        630         63n        63n         630        630        63n               4,679           9,450
c)  rn Workio  Capitol Lano                               -          14n         317         728         837        837        017         37        437         037               8,3710         14,577
T3901 rA5A  anIFlOWS                                   6,911       15,422      27,344      21,460      9,172       4,313      4,313      4,313       4,313      4,313              33,9R3         135,677
N1r1 G1S9 FICJW FY Y.                                      -          257         558       2,256       1,344      1,344      1,344       1,344      1,344      1,344              11,016          22,1R7
CrL43TI  (10 11Wmi                                         -          357         R15       3,071       4,415      5,759      2,103       8,447      9,791     11,135              22,157
1/ It io ass=ed prioipal is nepaid oneny year -a nlelnt the folkoboln  Ysar. W5tkIa tapital loans  eto toe 60 roD tashin  tatisrs.
2/ Caooiatioo of 5% of total prinipal and inteneot d-,.
3/ CaIlolated as 3 to 4 -sths ao-raoe qqtstuding.  Iflqs and o-tflons -apnasat itetast on o-tstaodiim  -n tts since it 10 assared sa.nnts are nelant each year.
4/ Conoiotig of S% of tota intenast doe.



ETHIOPIA
SEOOND WMFFF   PROESSI  AND MRJOF     PRaJECT
0OVERMh  OF ETHIOPIA
Incremental Cash Flow
(Birr 'OCO)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year4      Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year P        Year 9    Year 10          Year 11-20          Total
1984/8S    1985/86     1986F87    1987/88    1988/89   179i89/     1990/91    1991/92    1992/93     1993/94     1994/95-20(03/220C04
Inflows
Isuport Taxes and Duties                          1,871       1,371         938           -          -         -          -          -          -          -                  -            4,180
Repayment of loans by AIDB                            -         899       1,933       3,237      4,313      4,313     4,313      4,313      4,313      4,313             71,492          103,439
IDA' Credit                                      22,770      22,770      25,875       1,035          -         -          -          -          -          -                  -           72,450
Total Inflows                               24,641     25,040      28,746       4,272      4,313      4,313     4,313      4,313      4,313      4,313             71,492          1810,069
Outflows
Project Costs 2/                                 26,629      34,665      33,625      23,503      4,R59         -          -          -          -          -                  -         123,281
Repayment of IDA Credit 3/                          388         445         513        'i43        543        543       543        543        543        543             12,405          17,552
Total Outflows                              27,017     35,110      34,138      24,046      5,402        543       543        543        543        543             12,405         140,833
CASH LOW  BY YEARS                                 (2,376)   (10,070)    (5,392)   (19,774)   (1,089)        3,770     3,770      3,770      3,770      3,770             59,087           39,236
CtMJLATIVE CASH fUlW                              (2,376)    (12,446)   (17,838)    (37,612)   (38,701)   (34,931)  (31,161)   (27,391)   (23,621)   (19,851)             39,236
1/  It is assaned that the Working Capital Loans made to AIDB in 1983/84 to 1986/87 are relent and repaid every year and for the pirposes of this analysis finally repaid in Year 20.
2/  Consists of all project costs Including loans to AIDB.
3/  Repayment includes 1/21 on the undisbarsed IDA credit.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
BIRR '000
1          2           3           4           5          6           7           8        9-12
COSTS
WASHING STATIONS            6340.00    5551.00    11411.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
OTHER CAPITAL COSTS         9906,00   13602.00    4648,00         0.00        0.00        0.00      971.00       68.00        0.00
OPERATING COSTS             1502.00    2531.00    2526.00    2371.00    2371.00    2371.00    2371.00    2371.00           2371.00
-- ----- ----   ----- ----- -   -- -- ------ -   - -------- --   ---- --- --- -   - ----- --- --   ---- -- ---- -   ---------- - ______-_-__
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS       17748.00   21684.00   18585.00    2371.00    2371.00        2371.00    3342.00      2439,00    2371.00
BENEFITS FROM'
PROJECT PRODUCTION             0.00    2342.40    5305.60    9954.00   10376.80    9635,60         8894.40     8894.40    8894.40
INCREASED DESIGN QUALITY     239.62     331.52      390,78      465.96      456.62      424.01      391.39     391.39      391.39
MILLING AND GRADING          165.89      207.36      232.51    ,.263.58     252.95      234,88      216.82      216.82      216.82
ROAD IMPROVEMENT             189.70      272.13     331.39      410.28      404,66      375.75      346.85      346.85      346.85
POLLUTION CONTROL             94.85      136.06     165.70      205.14      202.33      187.88      173.42      173.42      173.42
RESIDUAL VALUE                 0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       000         '        0'00
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS      690.05    3289.47    6425.98    11298.96   11693.36    10858.12    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88
CD t--
NET COST/BENEFIT          -17057.95   -18394.53  -12159.02     8927.96    9322.36    8487.12    6680.88        7583.88     7651.88           o
__=  === ===  == ====== =  ====_ =====   ====== ===  == _===_==   ===== =====   =__=== ==_  === ======   ===== ==  == 



13          14           15           16          17           18           19           20       21-24           25           26       27-29            30
COSTS
A-4HING STATIONS                 0.00         0.00         0.OO     1196.00      1025.00      2063.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0,00
OTHER CAPITAL COSTS            971.00        68.00         0.00         0,00        0.00         0.00       971.00       68.00         0.00       971.00        68.00         0.00        0.00
OPEERATING COSTS              2371.00      2371.00      2371.00     2371.00      2371.00      2371.00     2371.00      2371.00      2371.00     2371.00      2371.00      2371.00      2371.00
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS          3342.00      2439.00      2371.00     3567.00      3396,00      4434.00     3342.00      2439.00      2371.00     3342.00      2439.00      2371.00      2371.00
BENEFITS FROM:                                                                                                                                                                                                00
FPROJECT PRODUCTION           8894.40      8894.40      8894.40     8894.40      8894.40      8894.40     8894.40      8894.40      8894.40      8894.40     8894.40      8894.40      8894.40
INCREASED DESIGN QUALITY       391.39       391.39      391.39       391.39       391.39       391.39      391.39       391.39       391.39       391.39      391.39       391.39       391.39
MILLING AND GRAIIINO           216.82       216.82       216.82      216.82       216.82       216.82       216.82      216.82       216.82       216.82      216.62        216.82       216.82
ROAD IMPROVEMENT               346.85       346.85       346,85      346.85       346.85       346.85      346.85       346.85       346.85       346.85       346.85       346.85       346.85
POLLUTION CONIROL              173.42       173.42       173.42      173.42       173.42       173.42       173.42      173.42       173.42       173.42       173.42       173.42       173.42
f:ESI[UAL VALUE                  0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0,00         0.00         0.00         0.00       565.00
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS      10022.86    10022,88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10022.88    10587.88
UN   t
NET COSTMBENEFIT              6680.88      7583.8S      7651.88     6455.88      6626.88      5588.88     6680.88      7583.88      7651.88      6680.88      7583.88      7651.88      8216.88
=    =    =    = =    =    =    = =    =    =    = =    =    =   = =    =   =    = =    =    =    = =   =    =      =    =    =      =    =    =     =    =    =     =    =    =   =    =   =    = =    =    =0



- 59 -
Table 10
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MA-RKETING PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Apprai.sal      Crossover        %
Variable                             Value           Value         Change
Costs (Birr '000)                           66,401         80,146         +21
Benefits (Birr '000)                        80,146         66,401         -17
Capacity Utilization by CPP II
stations (% at full development)              95             79         -171/
Price Premium to Farmer for Washed
Coffee (Birr per ton at full
development)                               1,200            990         -171/
/  Since the benefit stream is the product of the price premium times
production, these two variables have the same sensitivity as the
benefit stream when tested individually.



- 60 -
Chart 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IDA FINANCED FIRST PROJECT              -
PY 0   85        PY 1 '86         PY 2 '87         PY 3 '88
Calendar 1984       1985             1986            1987
1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4   1   2   3   4
WASHING STATIONS AND ROADS
Sidamo                                        15               15                10
Sidamo Washing Stations (40)                =ism* \ \                           _
I3    \\        20   "           20 
Improvements (53)
Upgrading Rural Roads (220)
.0   """'O    \  50   '.\\,5
Access Roads (100)
Kaffa
X\                              ~~~~~~~~~~20
Woshing Stations (20)
\\   \\               \\        ~~~~~~~~~19   \
Improver,ents(19)
\\       \u         ~~80    \ X\
Upgrading Rural Roads (80)
X\              \\         50   N\\
AccessRoods(50)
COFFEE MILL AND WAREHOUSE              \              ,                            _
TRAINING FACILrTY                                       \\
WORKSHOP (may be deferred)            \\
August 1983
World Bank-24652



Chart 2
- 61 -
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
MINISTRY OF COFFEE AND TEA DEVELOPMENT
ORGANIZATION CHAFRT
MINISTER'S OFFICE
AUOIT
SERVICES
PERMANENT
SECRETARY'S 
OFFICE
PROJECT COORDINATIOIN
ALSERVICES                                                    __                                           PUBLIC RELATIONS
SERVICES
ORGANIZATION METHOD                                                                                          MARKET INTELLIGENCE
AND MANPOWER STUDYMAKTIELGNC
SERVICE                                                                                               AND RESEARCH SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT       PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING          AIMINISTRATIVE AND             TRADE CONTROL
L=DEPARTMENT                       FINANCE DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
COOPERATIVELO REDT       - PROJECT PREPARATION         E     ERSONNELDIVISION J         SALESCONTROLDIVIS10
]IVSION                     DIVISION
APPLIED RESEARCH DIVISION       STATISTICS DIVISION            FINANCE DIVISION          IUALITY CONTROL DIVISION
COFEIMPROVEMENT          EVALUATION OP PROGRAM
PROJECT                IMPLEMENTATION DIVISION     EENERAL SERVICES DIVISION       TRADE CONTROL DIVISION
EXTENSION DIVISION           BUDGET PREPARATION             UMENTATION DIVISION
EXTENS                            DIVISION               -S
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION
COFFEE PLANTATION'     TEA PLANTATION            R  E                ETHIOPIAN
CORPORATION           DEVELOPMENT          MPLEER ENTATION     COFFEE MARKETING         LU
IJNIT       ~~CORPORATION          CORiPORATO
LIMU PLANTATIO~N T    l GtUMARO E D
| |  PLANTATION
L]    BEBEKA  |   U    WUSHUSH
I i PLANATION   i I  PLANTTION
i  EINAL       C
|  OF F ICES     || p
.,   Jl                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank -22952



ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Project Implementation Unit (PlU)
Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development
Organization Chart
PERMANENT SECRETARY
MINISTRY OF COFFEE AND TEA
DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT COORDINATION
GENERAL MANAGER
INTERNAL AuOIT
   OEPUITY
GENERAL MANAGER
PUBLIC RELATIONS
OFFICER
ACCOUNTS AND                    ENGINEERING                  PLANNING EVALUATION            CENTRAL
AOMINISTRATION                   DEPARTMENT                     AND MONITORING              LIOUORING           WORKSHOP
DEPARTMENT                                        J             DEPARTMENT                   UNIT              FACILITY
AMINtSTRATION                  ACCOUNTS                       DESGN                   ASHING STATION/ROADS              EQUIPMENT                  ROADS
DIVISION                    DIVISION                      DIVISION              CONSTRUCTION SUPERIVISION           AND SUPPLIES            CONSTRUCTION
DIVISION                     DIVISION                DIVISIONIJ
I/ Used only for rion-CPMP 1I work.
'IIr P'^ - 230X3



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AYD MARKETING PROJECT
Site Selection Criteria fcr Washing Stations
1.  A request must be received from a Cooperative to initiate the
construction of washing stations. A]:DB and MCTD shall, as may be
necessary, assist in the preparation of the details of proposed
operations, staffing and financial aspects in such request.
2.  Service area should have demonstrated production capacity of 3,000
tons cherries (500 tons clean coffee equivalent, of which 1/3 would be
washed).
3.  Samples of existing coffee crops should be verified as being suitable
for washing primarily in terms of cup tasting.
4.  Length of access road should be minimiized.
5.  Site should, to the extent possible, be centrally located to all
peasant associations within the cooperative society for whom the
station would be constructed.
6.  Site shall be located near a perennial stream or river to secure a
reliable and continuous water supply (up to 150,000 liters/day).
7.  Site should, to the extent possible, have a slope of 20-26% levelling
off at the bottom of the slope.
8.  Site should have an area of 2-2 1/2 h1ectares.
9.  Preference should be given to sites where gravity feeding of water
from river to the reservoir is possible.
10. Preference should be given to sites with no crops or plantation.
11. Preference should be given to a site which is communally owned by the
cooperative society.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
ETHIOPIA
SECOND COFFEE PROCESSING AND MARKETING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
-    Ethiopia - Second Coffee Processing Project - Preparation
Report, July 1979, prepared by Ministry of Coffee and Tea
Development
-    Ethiopia - Coffee Processing Project, Phase II Revision to
Preparation Report, 1979
-    Ethiopia - Second Coffee Processing and Marketing Project -
The Ethiopian Washed Coffee Sector - Observations and
Recommendations Relative to Washing Stations, Export
Preparation and Marketing, prepared for the World Bank by
H.J. Van Hilten, Consultant, June/July 1981
-    Coffee Processing and Marketing Project - Ethiopia Report on
the Appraisal Mission for the International Bank and
Reconstruction and Development, David Shoesmith,
Architect/Planner, 330 East 59th Street, New York, New York
10022 , July 1981



CD <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0w 
WRW ~~Z"
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~
z~/ 
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
"T,~~~~~~~~~~
f  .
/                                             (   ,~~~~~~~~~~~t
/~~~~~~~
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



