Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21510
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28637; TF-21221)
ON A
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY
EFFICIENCY PROJECT
DECEMBER 28, 2000
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Thai Baht (B)
US$ 1.0 = B 40.0
B 1.0 = US$0.025
FISCAL YEAR
October 1  September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASTAE      -   Asia Alternative Energy Program
CFL        -   Compact fluorescent lamp
CO2        -   Carbon dioxide
DEDP       -   Department of Energy Development and Promotion
DSM        -   Demand-side management
DSMO       -   Demand-Side Management Office
ECF        -   Thai Energy Conservation Promotion Fund
EGAT       -   Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ENCON Act -   Energy Conservation Promotion Act of Thailand
ESCO       -   Energy service company
GEF        -   Global Environment Facility
GOA        -   Government of Australia
GWh        -   Gigawatt-hour (one million kilowatt-hours)
IIEC       -   International Institute for Energy Conservation
IMEA       -   Independent Monitoring and Evaluation Agency
IRP       -    Integrated resource planning
JBIC       -   Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MEA        -   Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOD        -   Memorandum of the Director
MW         -   Megawatt (1,000,000 watts)
NEPO       -   National Energy Policy Office
OECF       -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PEA        -   Provincial Electricity Authority
SME        -   Small and medium enterprise
TISI       -   Thailand Industrial Standards Institute
TRC             Total Resource Cost
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Jayasankar Shivakumar
Sector Manager/Director:    Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jas Singh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                       5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         9
6. Sustainability                                                            12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                             13
8. Lessons Learned                                                           15
9. Partner Comments                                                          16
l 0. Additional Information                                                  16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                         19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                         20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                         22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                         23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components         25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                            26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                        27
Annex 8 ICR Mission Aide-Memoire                                             28
Annex 9 Beneficiary's Project Completion Report                              34
Annex 10 Borrower Comments                                                   44
Map: IBRD No. 23925R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004647                       Project Name: GEF-ELECTRICITY EGY
Team Leader: Darayes Bahadur Mehta        TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                        Report Date. December 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: GEF-ELECTRICITY EGY                      LIC/TF  TF-28637; TF-21221
Number:
Country/Department THAILAND                                Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original       Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/10/91                    Effective:  08/15/93      07/30/93
Appraisal:  12/03/92                     MTR:  03/05/96         03/05/96
Approval:  04/07/93                    Closing:  12/31/98       06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: EGAT
Other Partners:  OECF/JBIC, Government of Australia
STAFF               Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:    Jayasankar Shivakumar                     Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:     Yoshihiko Sumi                            Vineet Nayyar
Team Leader at ICR:  Jas Singh                                Darayes Bahadur Mehta
ICR Primary Authors: Adam Hinge (Consultant) and Jas Singh



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely,
UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial,
M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)    ICR
Quality at Entry:                  S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No              No
- 2 -



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In 1993, the World Bank, in conjunction with the Global Environment Facility (GEF), approved
the Thailand Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project. The Project had two major
objectives: (a) to build sufficient institutional capability in the Thai electric power sector and the
energy-related private sector to deliver cost-effective energy services throughout the economy;
and (b) to pursue policies and actions that would lead to the development, manufacture and
adoption of energy efficient equipment and processes within the country. The main GEF
objective in funding the Project was to demonstrate on a large scale, and within a reasonable time
frame: (i) the potential for electricity savings to replace substantial fossil fuel power generation,
thereby avoiding additional CO2 (NO, and SO2) emissions; and (ii) the capacity of the electric
power sector and other relevant agencies, public and private, to achieve those savings. The
broader, global objective was to generate among utilities in other developing countries a similar
commitment to undertake large-scale demand-side management (DSM) programs.
The Project, which was to be implemented by the Demand-Side Management Office (DSMO)
within the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), consisted of a five-year DSM
Plan, with a budget of US$189.0 million. The Project had a four-pronged approach: (a) to
provide user and manufacturer incentives and consumer education to influence practices and
attitudes towards energy-efficient technologies; (b) to develop efficiency standards and testing
capabilities to exercise control and monitor efficiency improvements; (c) to develop and
promulgate building and appliance codes in order to enforce minimum efficiency standards; and
(d) to continue pursuing technological improvements and their adaptation to Thai conditions.
The objectives and approach were appropriate, and were intended to demonstrate the potential for
capturing cost-effective energy efficiency savings potential (with resulting fossil fuel savings and
emissions reductions) through utility-based DSM activities. The original project plan was based
on DSM experience in other parts of the world, most specifically North America, and was
intended to test/demonstrate whether these DSM concepts could be successful in developing
regions as well. Thailand, with a rapidly growing demand for energy, was an appropriate
candidate for testing such a model for potential replication in other Asian countries.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project comprised a five-year DSM Plan (1993-97) with targets of 238 MW in peak
reduction and cumulative annual energy savings of 1,427 GWh, which corresponded to 1.16
million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission reductions.
The Project was designed with the following elements: (a) creating a DSMO within EGAT to
implement DSM programs; (b) developing and implementing technological and market
intervention strategies in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors; (c) developing
financial mechanisms to assure the market adopts the various energy efficiency programs; (d)
promulgating codes and standards to support efficient equipment; (e) establishing testing
laboratories; (f) developing project evaluation and monitoring systems and protocols; (g)
developing and training energy management companies and DSM program contractors; (h)
integrating supply-side and demand-side planning in the electricity planning process; (i)
developing a direct utility load control program; and (1) undertaking special studies as needed.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The DSMO did not revise the original project components per se. However, the program
priorities and strategies developed during project preparation were modified during
implementation to better reflect the Thai context. For example, instead of providing direct
financial incentives for end-uses to customers as envisioned during appraisal, the DSMO's
implementation strategy focused on voluntary negotiations with manufacturers combined with
aggressive public awareness and marketing campaigns to transform targeted end-use markets to
higher efficiency models, as well as bulk distribution of high-efficiency products and other
information dissemination activities (e.g., labeling, energy audits, demonstrations, data
collection/analysis, etc.). The implementation arrangements were expanded in 1997 to include
and leverage additional support from MEA, through the IBRD-supported Metropolitan
Distribution Reinforcement Project, to take advantage of MEA's existing customer base, brand
name recognition and strong electric power engineering expertise.
During project preparation, it was envisaged that EGAT would engage consultants for specific
assignments to support its activities and analyses.  After a number of assignments were
completed, the DSMO became increasingly frustrated with the significant resources required to
assist consultants to understand the background and context for its programs and to ensure that
the consultant outputs were sufficiently customized to meet EGAT's program needs. Therefore,
in late 1997, the DSMO proposed a scheme, which the Bank approved, to hire several full-time
advisors to conduct many of the assignments in-house with DSMO staff in order to reduce
consultant costs, improve transfer of know-how to the DSMO and improve the quality and
relevance of the outputs. The recruitment of these advisors was a challenge, but the results were
favorable, with the aggregate program evaluation report, integrated resource planning (IRP)
program development, management of the ESCO pilot project development and other tasks all
completed in-house, at a low cost and with a very high quality.
The Project was extended twice (March 18, 1998 and October 12, 1999) and closed on June 30,
2000, one-and-a-half years later than the original Closing Date.
Assessment of Design
The original project design was based on the recommendations of a UNDP GEF-supported, Bank
supervised pre-feasibility study for a large-scale utility energy conservation program conducted
by an international non-governmental organization (the International Institute for Energy
Conservation, IIEC), based on experience with DSM in North America. This was an appropriate
starting point for the project design, since no other tested models existed at the time. However,
once project implementation began, the DSMO became aware that the Western strategies for
DSM had to be appropriately modified to better suit Thai conditions. This took time and resulted
in initial implementation delays. The Bank actively supported EGAT's modifications to DSM
program approaches, showed patience and allowed considerable flexibility to the DSMO in this
regard. Once the Bank and EGAT agreed on modified strategies and program plans, progress
improved dramatically.
Given the lack of similar large-scale DSM programs in other developing countries at the time of
preparation, the project design was comprehensive and well-formulated. Although the project
objectives of - introducing changes in the power sector, the private sector, and consumer
l The initial project design proposed a larger implementation role by the distribution utilities, MEA and PEA.
However, they showed minimal interest during project preparation, thus EGAT accepted the lead role. EGAT's ability
to develop a successful and vibrant program eventually led both distribution utilities to participate in selected programs
that met shared interests; PEA with the street lighting program and MEA for load research, equipment testing, energy
service company (ESCO) services and load control.
- 4 -



purchasing practices, all in one project to be done by a relatively new institution unfamiliar with
DSM - were ambitious, they were largely achieved. Responsibility for promulgating building
codes and equipment standards may have been inappropriately assigned to the DSMO, though
their implementation was nevertheless achieved during the project period due to the DSMO's
active follow-up with concerned agencies. The MOD also proposed an ambitious implementation
schedule, expecting the DSMO to launch several programs simultaneously, while developing new
program plans, baseline scenarios, evaluation plans and developing in-house skills. However,
recognizing the importance to gain initial experience, develop staff skills, and refine intervention
strategies, the situation was remedied by EGAT and the Bank agreeing on a revised timetable.
This allowed the DSMO to design and implement pilot DSM programs and launch full-scale
efforts once initial experience was gained.
The Project appropriately proposed the setting up of a DSM Sub-Committee to exercise oversight
and improve coordination and cooperation among the concerned Thai agencies (EGAT, NEPO,
DEDP, MEA, PEA). In practice, this Sub-Committee served a useful purpose. However, the
informal nature of the Sub-Committee (a Thai culture model) may have limited its abilities to
ensure adequate coordination and resolve interagency disputes and the Sub-Committee exercised
little clout in enforcing its decisions. The Project would have benefited if stronger linkages were
established at the start between EGAT's DSM program and the Energy Conservation Promotion
Act (ENCON Act) and its agencies. This would have improved EGAT's access to Energy
Conservation Promotion Fund (ECF) financing for its commercial and industrial programs and
reduced overlapping efforts and competing initiatives among agencies. However, it is recognized
that such linkages in the early years would have limited EGAT's autonomy to proactively pursue
its various DSM initiatives.
During project negotiations, the GEF requested that the Project include funds for an Independent
Monitoring and Evaluation Agency (IMEA) to review EGAT's program impacts and assess the
validity of their estimates. While the rationale was clear, the IMEA position was perceived by the
DSMO to be "culturally incongruent," with international consultants appearing to be evaluating
the DSMO rather than just the program impacts. Since the project funds were allocated to EGAT
under the Grant Agreement, EGAT signed the contract with the IMEA and, as a result, the IMEA
reported to EGAT when it may have been more appropriate for the IMEA to report to the DSM
Sub-Committee, World Bank or GEF. During project implementation, EGAT decided to hire
international consultants to perform much of the evaluation work, which resulted in the IMEA
assessing other international consultant reports, which was not anticipated during project
preparation. Future projects should carefully consider the need for independent evaluation and, if
necessary, develop suitable contractual and reporting arrangements at the start.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/Achievement of objective.
Overall, EGAT has met its DSM Program objectives of creating substantial institutional
capability within the DSMO to design, implement and evaluate DSM programs and achieving
increased supply and adoption of high-efficiency equipment in Thailand. EGAT created an
institution in the DSMO which evolved from 40 staff initially, to a peak level of over 200 trained
and skilled staff. EGAT has worked effectively with several other Thai agencies, such as the
Ministries of Health and Education, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, MEA and PEA, to
jointly develop programs that meet shared goals. The DSMO also fostered public/private
partnerships with manufacturers, DSM contractors, ESCOs and electricity consumers to support
its program efforts. And, the DSMO is widely recognized in Asia and worldwide for its
innovative programs, such as its Green Leaf, Green Learning Room, and public campaigns, as
well as its strong management and capable staff.
- 5 -



After initial modifications in the strategic approach, EGAT has developed a strong and
significant portfolio of 19 DSM programs (see Section 10, Table 2 for detailed descriptions)
suited to Thai conditions and culture, demonstrating the viability of DSM in an Asian context.
EGAT has contributed to significant energy savings, which have been verified, under a cost-
effective program portfolio; such outputs and criteria have been unmatched by ongoing initiatives
under the ENCON Act. EGAT has developed one of the largest and most successful DSM
Program supported by the GEF, compared with the smaller albeit successful GEF-supported
DSM programs in Jamaica, Mexico and Sri Lanka. The Project has clearly demonstrated that
substantial electricity savings can be achieved on a large scale through utility DSM programs and
such programs can be effectively delivered by local utilities and other agencies/private firms.
The demonstration and catalytic effects are also evident. The Program was expanded in 1997 to
involve the Bangkok distribution utility, MEA, and a portion of the project funds were allocated
to MEA to help them initiate their own DSM programs, which complemented EGAT's efforts,
under the IBRD-supported Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project. EGAT's ESCO
development activities have directly led to a follow-on proposed GEF operation (the ESCO
Development Project) that would seek to remove barriers to expanded commercial financing of
energy efficiency investments. This operation is expected to offer affordable project financing
for energy efficiency investments and directly support the development of an ESCO industry in
Thailand as well as support EGAT's ongoing Green Buildings Program and industrial audits.
Additionally, the experience gained by EGAT in its early years of implementation contributed
towards improving the designs of the IDA/GEF-assisted DSM component of the Sri Lanka
Energy Services Delivery Project and the Swedish International Development Agency (Sida)-
sponsored DSM Project in Vietnam, managed by the Bank under the IDA-supported
Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project. It should be noted, though, that
the broader GEF goal of encouraging other countries to undertake large-scale utility-based DSM
programs was only marginally achieved. A major constraint has been the fact that many utilities
in the region are undergoing an unbundling and privatization process, which is altering the
rationale for utilities to undertake such initiatives.
EGAT has fully met and significantly exceeded its energy savings targets based on verified
evaluation figures (see Annex 1). The Project also met and exceeded the global environmental
objectives that were established. The MOD had set a target of 1.16 million tons of CO2
reduction, at a cost of approximately US$8.2 per ton for the GEF funds. Final project results
showed CO2 reduction of 2.32 million tons at a cost of only US$4.2 per ton for the GEF funds,
due to the higher achieved energy savings than originally projected.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Substantial results were obtained from EGAT's DSM program portfolio. Annex I shows the
evaluated results of EGAT's first five programs, which have resulted in a 566 MW reduction in
peak demand and energy savings of 3,140 GWh/year, more than double the original targets of
238 MW and 1,427 GWh/year, although it should be noted that the actual project period was six-
and-a half years versus the five year original implementation period. These do not include
several other DSM programs launched to date, for which evaluated savings could not be or have
not yet been determined. More importantly, a number of key end-use markets have been
permanently transformed and the Thai public has become significantly more aware of energy
conservation and efficiency issues. Thus the overall assessment of the project outputs is rated as
highly satisfactory.
While these overall Program results have been positive, results from individual programs have
been mixed. Some programs, such as the fluorescent tube and refrigerator programs, were highly
successful, with significant savings at a relatively low cost. The energy savings from the
fluorescent tube program were so high, that impacts from this program alone exceeded the MOD
- 6 -



targets for the entire Project. Other programs, such as the motor and low-loss ballast programs,
did not achieve expected results during the project period, although EGAT plans to revise
strategies and re-launch these programs in its next 5-year plan based on experience gained during
the Project.
Residential Sector: EGAT's residential customer DSM programs were largely successful and
accounted for the majority of program impact figures. These programs were well-suited to
EGAT's public campaigns, were considered cost-effective and largely met their individual
program impact targets. This was in part due to the fact that several of the earlier programs
promoted equipment with a relatively low or negligible incremental cost for the higher-efficiency
models. Key achievements include:
* Market share of T-8 "thin tube" fluorescent lamps grew from 40 percent at the program
launch to 100 percent in 1997, resulting in a peak reduction of 388 MW and annual energy
savings of 1,892 GWh;
* Increase in market share of "level 5" single-door refrigerator models (through labeling) from
2.3 percent to 100 percent, reducing the peak demand by 84 MW and energy use by 849
GWh/year and contributing to a 21 percent reduction in overall refrigerator energy
consumption;
* Growth in "level 5" air conditioner sales (using appliance labels) from 19 percent to 38
percent during project period, resulting in a peak reduction of 84 MW and cumulative annual
energy savings of 318 GWh;
* Over 900,000 compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) sold during project period at 40 percent
below the prevailing market price (without direct subsidy); and
* 59 brands of brown jasmine rice, which require about 40 percent less energy to process than
white rice, have been labeled and promoted.
Commercial/Industrial Sector: Overall, impacts from the commercial buildings and factory
programs were less successful than the residential activities. One major barrier was the lack of
viable financing mechanisms to follow-up EGAT's energy audits and consultations. Key
program results included:
. 252 commercial and industrial energy audits conducted, energy management systems
demonstrated in customer premises, and four commercial building demonstration projects
implemented;
X Four pilot ESCO projects developed, fully prepared and financing now under negotiation,
which are expected to lead to the first energy performance contracts in Thailand;
* 14 demonstration investments implemented in pre-defined end-uses for small and medium
enterprises (SMEs);
* Over 86 hotels audited, six hotel seminars conducted and 59 hotels rated with "Green Leaf'
certification;
* A 350 kW demonstration thermal storage facility constructed and being tested for
commercial viability; and
* MEA's motor testing laboratory constructed and operational.
Public Sector: The street lighting program resulted in the installation of 275,000 high-pressure
sodium vapor (HPS) lamps throughout the country and have saved 17 GWh/year. Over 200
Green Learning Rooms, an education module in primary and secondary schools, were constructed
and are now operational. A follow-up evaluation of students that had been trained using this
educational tool found that over 98 percent were aware of energy conservation issues and the link
between energy use and the environment.
- 7 -



Institutional/Evaluation: EGAT completed comprehensive evaluations of conservation, load
management, and attitude creation programs to assess their impacts and effectiveness. Also,
during the project period, the DSMO established key informational databases, such as end-use
profiles from EGAT, end-user profiles from MEA, a five-year IRP review of sector-specific DSM
measures and their relative potentials and costs, and an integrated tracking database system for
DSM program data (e.g., program participants, equipment data, energy consumption profiles,
administration costs, evaluation results, etc.). The IRP efforts provided substantial improvements
to the DSMO's planning techniques and considerably more rigor in the program screening, design
and development process.
Project Components Financed By Other Sources
EGAT provided about US$31.66 million for DSM program expenses, largely from the automatic
tariff mechanism (Ft). The majority of these funds were used to support public campaigns and
DSMO administration costs and the balance was used for certain program expenses not covered
by the other project funds.
GOA provided AUD8.5 million (US$5.4 million) for DSMO program support, which was
manage by the Bank. The funds, which were fully utilized, supported EGAT's and MEA's load
research programs, MEA's testing laboratory, MEA's ESCO business unit, and several consulting
assignments and studies to support the DSM Program.
OECF/JBIC provided a JY2.8 billion (US$25 million) concessional loan to EGAT to support
DSM efforts, although only about 48.5 percent has been disbursed to date. Funds have been used
to support construction of EGAT's pilot thermal storage facility, laboratory testing equipment for
TISI, computer systems and public relation activities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
The overall cost effectiveness of the Project, when calculated through the standard DSM total
resource cost (TRC) analysis methodology, resulted in a benefit-cost ratio of 1.7, indicating that
the program was economically attractive. When measured by this TRC Test, the net present
value of savings of all the programs, over the life of the measures included, was over US$144
million (5.75 billion Baht). If the value of reduced CO2 is included, at a cost of $50/ton, the net
present savings increases to US$763 million (30.52 billion Baht). Although there was no
aggregate TRC ratio estimated at appraisal, it can be assumed that the actual returns substantially
exceeded appraisal estimates, since twice as much energy was saved at roughly one-third the cost.
It should be noted that these actual results are conservative estimates, as these only include
benefits from the five evaluated programs but costs of all EGAT programs launched to date,
many of which had substantial, unquantified benefits or savings that have not yet been
determined.
While the overall results were favorable, it was observed that individual program TRC ratios
differed substantially from appraisal estimates. A major factor for this difference was the
assumption at appraisal that EGAT would follow the U.S. model of offering direct financial
incentives to program participants and would be assessed on a resource acquisition basis. Instead,
EGAT employed market transformation strategies which had lower avoided cost benefits to
EGAT but higher societal benefits and more sustainable energy efficiency results. Another
reason was the change in peak period during the Project, which significantly reduced the
coincidence factors of many of the programs designed for residential use, thus decreasing peak
reduction benefits to EGAT. The CFL and street lighting programs had unfavorable TRC results,
in part, due to the unique nature of these programs, and may have been better assessed using
alternative economic analyses. It was concluded that the street lighting program, which served as
a demonstration program only, was not cost-effective and should not be replicated or expanded
- 8 -



without modifications to the program approach. (Annex 3 contains a comparison of TRC ratios
at appraisal and actual results. A full discussion of the cost-effectiveness issues is contained in
EGAT's DSM Program Evaluation Report, October 2000, available in the Project file.)
4.4 Financial Rate of Return
N/A.
4.5 Institutional Development Impact
The institutional development impact of this Project has been significant. A very strong
institutional capacity has been developed within the DSMO, probably the strongest in any region
outside of North America. From an initial level of 40 staff with limited DSM expertise, EGAT
now has over 176 dedicated, trained DSM professionals in place as well as 166 long-term
contractors. The Project has developed a strong planning, implementation and evaluation
capability within EGAT as well as some DSM capacity within MEA. Based on capability and
experience gained during the Project, EGAT has developed its next 5-year DSM plan, based on
its detailed IRP analyses, which includes substantially more sophisticated analyses of future DSM
plans along with technical and cost-effectiveness potentials and savings targets for future efforts.
EGAT's generation system planning process now includes a provision from DSM program
savings.
The Project also include significant provisions for training. Rather than formal training courses
and workshops, as expected during project preparation, EGAT included training tasks under each
consulting assignment, to allow DSMO staff to have hands-on training and more learning-by-
doing, which helped activities initiated by the consultants be sustained and expanded by the
DSMO. Selected training activities were also implemented by the resident advisors while
completing in-house assignments, which was very effective. Also, with support from the Bank's
Asia Alternative Energy Program (ASTAE), a utility DSM twinning program was implemented
in 1996, where four DSMO staff worked in a DSM group in two U.S. utilities (in Portland,
Oregon and Austin, Texas) for three months, with very positive results.
Outside the utility sector, substantial progress has been achieved in improving private sector
interest and capabilities to provide energy efficiency products and services.  EGAT's
manufacturer negotiations fostered improved domestic manufacturer awareness and capability to
produce higher efficiency appliances and other products. Through the pilot ESCO program, the
first four ESCOs in Thailand were established and the first energy performance contracts are
expected to be signed shortly, though implementation of these investment projects did not occur
during the project period. EGAT successfully worked with TISI to improve local testing
capabilities, increasing the capacity ranges and end-uses that can be tested, and supported MEA's
construction of a new testing facility for motors and ballasts. EGAT's attitude creation programs
have significantly increased consumer awareness in energy efficiency, with its labeling programs
among the most well-recognized product labels in the country. EGAT's effective labeling
programs have led to the proposed introduction of mandatory energy efficiency equipment
standards by NEPO for six key end-uses, which are now expected to become effective in 2002-3.
Although outside EGAT's purview, energy efficiency building codes were developed and enacted
for both commercial and industrial facilities.  Finally, commercial building and hotel
owners/managers have become more aware of energy efficiency issues associated with their
business operations.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
The 1997 Asian financial crisis had a major adverse impact on the implementation and outcome
of the Project. Projected load growth and consumption, which EGAT used to determine the
-9-



initial targets and savings projections, did not anticipate the reduced energy use and operating
times that resulted during this period. The crisis also reduced the viability of some of EGAT's
planned initiatives, which had to be put on hold or cancelled, such as the New Buildings Program
due to the depressed real estate market, and several load management programs due to the post-
crisis power capacity surplus. The economic recession severely dampened equipment sales,
which was the basis for many of EGAT's programs. For example, sales of fluorescent tubes
showed steady increases from 1993 to 1996 (48 million in 1996) but then decreased significantly
after 1997 (30 million in 1998), less than half of EGAT's projected sales volume for that year.
Also during this period, large industrial and commercial end-users became increasingly focused
on their core businesses and the investment climate for energy efficiency was severely
diminished. The combination of the high non-performing loan portfolios in the local banking
sector and the lack of creditworthy customers during this time period significantly reduced the
potential for meaningful energy efficiency investments in the DSMO's programs in these sectors.
While maintaining its overall commitment to the DSM Program, circumstances required that
EGAT's management temporarily tailor the DSMO's efforts to suit the severe financial
constraints imposed by the Government and its dwindling revenues; all in an environment when
the country was anxiously awaiting growth in demand as a sign of economic recovery. The fact
that the DSMO management was able to maintain forward progress during this difficult period,
and accomplish the level of savings that has been documented, is remarkable.
The shift in EGAT's peak period from the evening hours (6pm-9pm) to the afternoon (2pm-5pm)
also affected the expected program impacts. During appraisal, many of the initial programs
selected were designed to target residential uses to affect a reduction in the evening peak demand.
Once this shift in peak period to the afternoon was realized, the estimated coincidence factors for
many of the programs were substantially reduced, effectively reducing the avoided cost of supply
benefits for these measures. The street lighting program, for example, was designed to contribute
to a peak load reduction, but did not result in any avoided capacity after the shift in peak period.
A third factor was the introduction of imported, low quality CFLs into the Thai market. These
lamps, which had a much lower average operating life, severely affected public perception with
CFL technology and became a major barrier to EGAT's CFL program. EGAT was eventually
able to overcome this problem by active testing and labeling of the lamps, but not before severe
damage to CFL public confidence and a substantial delay in program implementation was
experienced.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control
While the Government was generally supportive of the DSM Program and EGAT's efforts
throughout, specific directives by the DSM Sub-Committee to concerned agencies could have led
to a better coordinated program and enhanced program results, particularly with the programs
designed to mobilize ECF resources to promote energy efficiency investments in the commercial
and industrial sectors. The result is that all three energy efficiency agencies (NEPO, EGAT,
DEDP) have had some overlapping or even competing initiatives (i.e., equipment labeling,
audits), which has resulted in an inefficient use of government resources and created some
confusion among consumers. The limited coordination between EGAT and DEDP, in particular,
as well as structural problems with DEDP's audit program, caused unnecessary delays and
affected program  performance and results.  As long as all three agencies have some
responsibilities for energy efficiency programs, there is a substantial need for a clear delineation
of roles and responsibilities in the future.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
While EGAT generally managed the DSM Program well and assumed a very high level of
ownership throughout the Project, certain aspects could have been improved. The DSMO's
process for identifying program priorities and designing appropriate promotional strategies lacked
- 10-



a systematic and rigorous approach in the initial years, although it is noted that the DSMO has
improved its capability in the DSM planning process significantly as demonstrated in its IRP
report. Until 1999, there had been no formal program evaluation to identify areas within the
program design process that could be improved. EGAT has now completed a comprehensive
evaluation of its initial programs and has incorporated its findings into future program plans. The
late findings, however, did not allow sufficient feedback to improve program implementation
during the project period. EGAT was only partially successful in developing and testing new
program strategies, often relying on early approaches such as manufacturer negotiations and
labeling, which were insufficient for more complex end-use markets with higher incremental
costs, such as ballasts and motors. As a result, EGAT was unable to achieve significant progress
on these latter programs. EGAT's commercial and industrial programs had limited impacts due,
in part, to a lack of viable financing sources to follow-up EGAT's energy audits and
consultations. Such programs did not lend themselves well to the public campaigns and required
more customized support, which was more difficult for EGAT to provide.
While the DSMO management was generally very strong and proactive, there were five managers
over the seven year project period, which affected program implementation and continuity.
These management changes did contribute to the limited progress on many of the DSM programs
in the latter years, although much of this slow down resulted from EGAT's financial position
after the 1997 crisis. Also, had MEA and PEA showed greater interest and involvement in the
Project's early years, customer recruitment and participation may have been further improved.
Financial Operations and Reporting
The DSMO charged eligible expenditures against the project grant in accordance with the grant
conditions. Program expenditures which could not be reimbursed from the grants/JBIC loan were
covered by the Ft. Consequently, revenues and expenditures in the Statement of Revenues and
Expenditures have generally been on balance. However, in FY98, the DSMO was required by the
Auditor to report a deficit when it could not account for all inventoried equipment, much of
which was undergoing testing and demonstrations in customer premises. After an internal
investigation was conducted, over 96 percent of the equipment was accounted for and the FYOO
accounts were adjusted to reverse the deficit, with the outstanding funds covered by the Ft.
EGAT management has taken several actions to prevent such occurrences in the future and the
Bank is satisfied with the resolution of this issue.
The results of operations and the assets and liabilities of the DSMO are aggregated in the
Financial Statements of EGAT, however, a separate report and audited statements are prepared to
show its financial position and results of operation in accordance with the grant agreement. The
balance sheets and the Statement of Revenues and Expenditures for the accounting periods,
FY93-97 were audited by the Auditor General and submitted to the Bank. The financial
statements, which were audited in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
standards, were given unqualified opinion by the auditors. The financial statements for FY98-99
were received and the findings of the report were reviewed by the Bank and found to be in
accordance with the grant agreement requirements. However, the audited financial statements
including the auditor's opinion for the FY98 and FY99 audits have not yet been certified by the
Auditor General in view of the Auditor's requirement to consolidate the reporting of MEA's
DSM account with that of DSMO. The consolidation is now underway and the report will be
submitted to the Bank shortly.
5.4 Costs and Financing
As noted in Annex 2, the overall program costs were US$59.3 million, about one-third of the
US$189 million estimated at appraisal, with much of the reduction from the counterpart funds
that were to be raised through the Ft and other govemment sources (e.g., ECF). Much of this
reduction in investment can be attributed to the shift in implementation strategy, from direct
-I I -



customer incentives to manufacturer negotiations, labeling and promotions, which have
inherently lower costs. As a result, direct program costs were generally much lower than planned
and promotion costs much higher. EGAT was also driven to reduce DSM expenses during the
recovery period after the financial crisis. Overall results were very positive, with EGAT
requiring one-third the expected resources to achieve twice the impacts.
It should be noted that the total Program investment would have been much higher had EGAT
been able to mobilize additional ECF and/or commercial resources for its commercial and
industrial programs. The total reported investment also does not include the estimated $8-10
million currently being negotiated for EGAT's pilot ESCO projects as these negotiations were not
concluded within the project period, although completion is expected within the coming months.
These additional investments would have generated additional energy savings and other Project
benefits. It is also expected that these investments could have improved the overall cost-
effectiveness ratios, since the total Project costs include some development costs for these
programs but few benefits since many of these investments were never made. Thus while EGAT
still implemented a cost-effective DSM program, there was scope for EGAT to implement a
larger investment program with higher energy savings and a potentially higher overall TRC ratio.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating
Sustainability of the DSMO and its activities has been a matter of great debate over the latter
years, due largely to impending power sector and EGAT restructuring plans, EGAT's eventual
privatization as well as the recent decision to eliminate DSM funding through the tariff
adjustment?. EGAT commissioned a study to review options for sustaining the DSM activities
through the restructuring period and has made recommendations to EGAT management, the DSM
Sub-Committee and NEPO in this regard. EGAT has also prepared a Five-Year (2001-2005)
DSM Plan based on recommendations of its IRP study, with targets of 612 MW in peak load
reduction and annual energy savings of 3,949 GWh at a cost of about 1.5 billion Baht, with
program funding to be made available through EGAT's base tariff and the ECF. NEPO has
agreed in principle to support EGAT's DSM efforts through the ECF during this period.
Institutionally, NEPO and EGAT have reached agreement, which has also been supported by a
Cabinet Resolution, for the DSMO to remain under EGAT until the successful commissioning of
the power pool (about 2004) . Under this plan, the DSM divisions would remain intact and be
combined with EGAT's Research and Development Office around 2002. These developments
bode well for the medium-term sustainability of EGAT's DSM Program. MEA's DSM business
units (testing laboratory and ESCO unit) are likely to remain functional until such time as they
can be reasonably spun-off as non-core business groups, in accordance with current restructuring
plans. However, neither has yet proven its marketability nor commercial viability at present and
sustainability of MEA's program will heavily depend on their operations over the next 1-2 years.
Sustained operation of the DSMO, at least under the current arrangements, after the next few
years is less certain. Once the power pool is operational, government energy policy officials and
2 The New Base Tariff structure approved by the Government with effect from October 1, 2000 consisted of an Ft-
inclusive average base tariff and a revised Ft calculation. The Ft was re-based to zero from October 1, 2000 and
allowed for the automatic pass through for variations in energy charge, foreign exchange, and inflation. DSM expenses
were removed from the Ft formula.
3 EGAT's proposed privatization plan calls for three-stages: (i) transitional phase, to commercialize EGAT and
privatize selected thermal generation (completed); (ii) corporatization of thermal Genco, where EGAT would establish
a subsidiary thermal Genco and separate grid and power purchase functions (2001-3); and (iii) commencement of
power pool, where EGAT would assume a minority shareholder of the thermal Genco, establish power pool rules and
operate the transmission, hydropower and power pool systems (2004 onwards).
- 12 -



the national regulatory commission, yet to be created, will have to determine appropriate longer-
term arrangements for the DSMO. At present, it is proposed that the DSMO may be spun-off into
an independent service provider and implement programs to support public and private measures
on a fee-for-service basis. Other options are likely to arise and receive consideration during this
period.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations
Despite the end of the GEF Project and depletion of grant funds, the DSMO continues to operate
and the 176 staff positions remain. With the expected availability of the ECF to support future
operation and clearer institutional arrangements over the near term, it is expected that the DSM
programs initiated under the Project will be sustained and new programs launched in the coming
years. However, given the longer-term changes proposed to the electric power sector and
eventual privatization of EGAT, it is recommended that the World Bank continue to monitor
DSM program activities in its dialogue with the government in order to help ensure the
sustainability of the DSMO programs and capabilities strengthened under the Project. This can
be accomplished under the next proposed GEF operation, but will be increasingly difficult as the
Bank phases out its energy sector lending in Thailand.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Preparation
The Project was proposed based on the findings of the UNDP GEF study, conducted by IIEC, to
assess the feasibility of launching a national DSM program in Thailand. Given the Bank's active
involvement in the sector and its strong established relationship with EGAT, it was proposed that
the Bank manage this operation. The Bank's participation, along with the GEF grant resources
provided, were critical elements to gather Government support for this Project. Thereafter, the
Bank provided appropriate inputs to adequately prepare the Project.
7.2 Supervision
Since this was among the first GEF DSM projects to be implemented, and it had a unique
demonstration objective for neighboring countries, the Bank provided intensive supervision to
this Project, with 1-2 missions per year over the seven-year project period, with appropriately
staffed teams. During the early years of implementation, the Bank provided substantial support to
the DSMO by offering extensive technical support and guidance and allowing the DSMO
considerable flexibility to move forward with its programs, which was critical to the Project's
success. The supervision resources were more than expected at project appraisal, which can be
attributed to the one-and-a-half year extension of the Closing Date. The supervision team also
helped mobilize support through ASTAE for the Thai/U.S. utility DSM twinning program,
translation of a Thai DSM CD-ROM into English, and implementation of an ESCO Business
Practices Workshop in Bangkok in 1999.
While the intensity and the extent of the supervision efforts may be deemed highly satisfactory,
there were some areas where the Bank could have done more.  A  number of key
recommendations were stressed by the Bank missions to improve overall project performance,
such as expediting implementation of the low-loss ballast and high-efficiency motor programs
and more systematic and timely program and evaluation plans, but the Bank team could have
better ensured that these recommendations were adequately addressed. Another issue noted
during supervision was the limited coordination among relevant Thai agencies on energy
efficiency programs and the Bank team could have been more proactive in this regard, although it
was recognized that the Bank had limited influence with these other agencies, particularly DEDP.
- 13 -



7.3 Overall Bank Performance
With the exception of a few key areas that could have been more forcefully addressed, the Bank
performance would have been considered highly satisfactory, with its strong guidance, support
and flexibility, and was well appreciated by EGAT.  Taking into consideration the
aforementioned shortcomings, overall Bank performance for the Project is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation
Since the DSMO was only getting started during project preparation and was generally unfamiliar
with DSM planning techniques, substantial inputs into the project design may not have been
possible by EGAT. Had EGAT been able to provide more inputs at the project design stage,
some early implementation delays may have been avoided. Given the lack of interest and support
offered by MEA and PEA, EGAT showed and provided considerable support to preparation
activities and shouldered the added burden.
7.5 Government Implementation Performance
Generally, the Government performance was satisfactory and it offered considerable support to
the Project, setting up the DSM Sub-Committee to coordinate project activities, providing for
funding through the Ft, and through parallel activities such as the development of energy
efficiency commercial and industrial building codes and equipment standards. NEPO offered
considerable support to the DSMO in order to approve DSM program plans in the Sub-
Committee and improve govemment support for the Project, although coordination among other
members of the government's DSM Sub-Committee could have been strengthened further. The
ENCON Act agencies inability to provide ECF funds to support several of the DSMO's activities
requiring substantial capital investments limited program impacts in these areas and, as a result,
some energy savings opportunities were missed.
Given the substantial tasks and issues relating to the ongoing sector restructuring efforts,
sustainability of the DSMO was not given as much attention as it should have been by the
government/EGAT, which contributed in some measure to greater uncertainty in the latter years.
However, it was difficult for the Government to propose a viable long-term institutional plan for
future DSM operations, given the very limited range of successful models from other countries to
sustain DSM efforts in a post-restructured power sector. Nevertheless, NEPO has been very
supportive of the DSMO's efforts and pledged to ensure that DSM operations continue after the
Project.
7.6 Implementing Agency
With the exception of a few programs that achieved limited results, of which some were outside
the DSMO's control, EGAT's performance has been highly satisfactory. The DSMO was
successful in adapting the Western DSM concept to local conditions and cultural realities.
Specifically, EGAT's public campaigns and voluntary agreements with manufacturers were
customized to match Thai culture and values, and the delivery channels for energy-efficient
products and information were well-suited to Thai preferences. The DSMO showed considerable
proactivity during the Project and has implemented several very successful and innovative
initiatives. EGAT's ability and resolve to sustain DSM programs during and after the financial
crisis was also exceptional. And, EGAT significantly exceeded the established savings targets
and did so at a much lower cost than expected.
The Project would have benefited further from more systematic planing of programs by the
DSMO. Earlier program evaluation would have allowed the DSMO to refine its program
strategies and could have resulted in higher impacts than achieved. The DSMO could have been
more successful in improving implementation results for a few of its programs, such as motors
- 14 -



and ballasts, though its future plans, supported by the IRP study, have sufficiently addressed
these initial deficiencies. EGAT could have done more to work with DEDP and NEPO to
mobilize ECF funds for its Pilot ESCO and Green Buildings Programs.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance
For much of the program, EGAT's performance was considered to be highly satisfactory,
showing strong commitment, innovation and a results-oriented approach. However, considering
some of the performance shortcomings noted previously, overall EGAT performance for the
Project is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The above analysis of project implementation suggests that the key lessons learned from the
Project are:
DSM programs should be designed with due consideration of local cultural realities to ensure
high consumer acceptance and participation and to achieve meaningful impacts (Sections 3.4,
4.1, 7.6).
Mechanisms for transfer of competency and skills should be carefully assessed to determine
appropriate use of consultants and consider short as well as longer term assignments to
maximize effectiveness (Sections 3.4, 4.5).
Project designs should carefully consider the need for independent evaluation and, if
necessary, develop suitable contractual and reporting arrangements from the start (Section
3.4).
DSM efforts should be linked with financing facilities to ensure that utility efforts, largely in
the industrial and commercial sectors, can be followed-up with meaningful investments
(Sections 3.4, 4.2, 5.2, 5.3, 7.5, 7.6).
Strong Bank support and flexibility are particularly critical elements for ensuring new types
of projects are successful (Sections 3.4, 7.2).
Where multiple government energy efficiency programs including DSM exist, appropriate
linkages should be developed to improve coordination and minimize potential overlaps
(Sections 3.4, 5.2, 7.5).
Supportive government policies and agencies and proactive DSM cells are critical to the
success of such activities (Sections 4.1, 6.1).
DSM programs should be established in the context of reforms to ensure sustainability, taking
into account proposed institutional structures, pricing reforms, appropriate regulation and
oversight, incentive and funding schemes, established customer relationships, etc. (Sections
4.1, 6.1, 6.2).
Well-designed and extensive DSM marketing can help programs achieve significant savings
impacts at relatively low costs (Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.5).
Where public purpose DSM programs have unquantifiable benefits, efforts should be made at
the project design stage to determine appropriate measures for monitoring and assessment
(Section 4.3).
Utility management should seek measures to better insulate DSM operations from ongoing
staffing and institutional changes to ensure that operations, funding and strategic directions
are maintained (Section 5.3).
- 15-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 10.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None received.
10. Additional Information
Table 1. Key Studies and Consulting Assignments
Name of Assignment (Contractor)                        Outputs/Results
1. IMEA                                Reviewed program evaluation methodology, conducted
(Barakat & Chamberlin, USA; Hagler    independent metering and evaluation surveys, verified
Bailly, USA)                          reported impact figures, provided general guidance on
_  program planning and evaluation efforts.
2. End-Use Load Research               Designed and delivered a turn-key end-use load research
(Electric Power Research Institute, USA)   program which involved conducting an end-use metering
benchmark study, developing in-house data storage and
analysis functions, determining end-use and customer load
profiles, providing substantial training on end-use metering
and data analysis.
3. Renewable Energy Potential and      Reviewed renewable resources and potential for commercial
Development Study                     development, conducted financial assessments for various
(AEA Technology, UK)                 applications, developed recommendations and a proposed
action plan for a national program, strategy and priority areas
(Bank to discuss appropriate follow-up with NEPO/ EGAT).
4. Appliance Testing Laboratory Feasibility  Reviewed potential demand for appliance testing,
Study and Market Assessment           determined feasibility for MEA facility, and specified testing
(KEMA, the Netherlands)               equipment needs for lab operation (Lab now operational).
5. DSM Under a Privatized Electricity  Benchmark study of restructured DSM programs in other
Supply Industry                      countries, analysis of Thai funding/ institutional
(Convector Consulting, N.A., USA)     arrangements and proposed restructuring plans, proposed
options for future DSM operations in Thailand.
6. Energy Conservation Program         Conducted extensive surveys, interviews, market research,
Evaluation                            end-use metering and DSMO data to determine DSM
(AGRA Monenco, Canada)               program impacts, assess DSM program strategies, estimate
program environmental impacts, and determine market
penetration and impacts for five end-use programs.
7. Load Management Program Evaluation    Estimated program impacts for three programs through
(EDF, France)                        interviews, surveys and metering to compare load shapes,
assessed program strategies, recommended program
enhancements.
8. DSM Attitude Creation Program       Provided qualitative and some quantitative evaluation of
Evaluation                            DSMO's marketing using extensive market surveys and
(Thammasat University-RAC, Thailand)   focus groups.
9. Design of Tracking MIS               Developed a database warehouse architecture to integrate
(TN. Information Systems Ltd., Thailand)  DSM program data (evaluation, load research, program data,
equipment information, budgets and costs, etc.)
- 16 -



Table 2. EGAT's DSM Program Portfolio
Program              Sector                       Program Description                        Incentive Mechanism                    Status/Results
Fluorescent Tube  Residential,          Direct negotiations with 5 local manufacturers and one  Public campaigns launched to educate  Program completed. Within one
Lamps              Commercial,         importer to completely switch production/distribution of T-  consumers about the benefits of these  year, all manufacturers had
Industrial          12 (40 W/20 W) tubes to T-8 (18 W/36 W) lamps. TISI  "thin tubes" in exchange for the   completely switched production to
tested the lamp life and lumen output for each      manufacturers' agreement to phase   T-8 lamps and the one importer
manufacturer to ensure consistent quality.          out production of T- 12 lamps.     complied shortly thereafter.
Refrigerators      Residential          Negotiation with 5 local manufacturers to initiate voluntary  Large public campaign implemented    Market share of single-door level 5
labeling scheme for single-door models. TISI tested  to raise consumer awareness about  models increased from 2% to 100%
models and provided labels to manufacturers directly.  the labels and to aggressively   during program and 84% of all
These labels have since been made mandatory and EGAT    promote the level 5 label.     refrigerators sold are now level 5.
has expanded the program to include two-door models.                                    Program has contributed to a 21%
reduction of overall refrigerator
energy consumption. Label
requirements will be updated in
2001.
Air Conditioners   Residential,         Voluntary labeling of split and unitary (window) AC  Public campaign initiated to promote   Market share of level 5 ACs
Commercial          models for 55 domestic manufacturers. TISI tested the  the labeled models. EGAT also    increased from 19% to 38% during
models and the DSMO provided the labels to the      offered interest-free loans to      program period. EGAT hopes to
manufacturers.                                      customers through local credit cards   reach agreement with manufacturers
for the incremental cost of level 5  to make the label mandatory within
ACs and rebates to shop owners who   the next few years.
sold level 5 models during
promotional periods.
Green Buildings   Commercial            Promotion of energy-efficient end-uses in existing   Free energy audits, partially      The DSMO has conducted 252
commercial buildings, through energy audits,        reimbursed by the ECF, and          commercial and industrial energy
consultations, demonstrations and promotional activities.   investment consultation for retrofit    audits, installed 120 ELCONTROL
This program was designed to support DEDP's         programs. EGAT also offered use of   systems in customer premises, and
Compulsory Program, which requires audits and adherence  demonstration ELCONTROL energy   implemented four commercial
to the building code in "designated buildings" (over 1000    management systems and provided  building demonstration projects.
kW demand).                                         interest-free loans for some
demonstration projects.
Compact            Residential,         Agreement with distribution outlets to sell CFLs from  Bulk distribution and partnership with  Over 900,000 CFLs sold to date
Fluorescent        Commercial           participating manufacturers. EGAT bore advertising costs  franchised retail outlets allowed  under program at 40% below
Lamps (CFLs)                            of program and tested/labeled lamps to ensure consistent    substantial reduction in transaction  prevailing market price.
quality.                                            costs.
Street Lighting    Municipal            Pilot program with PEA to procure and distribute high-  Grant funds used to pay for higher  275,000 lamps procured and
pressure sodium vapor (HPS) street lamps to         incremental cost of HPS lamps to   installed with subsidy of 200 Baht
municipalities throughout Thailand.                 demonstrate technology.             per lamp. Future promotion
contingent upon substantial
reduction in local HPS costs.
Green Leaf         Commercial           Audits and certification of energy-efficient hotels based on   Free workshops and audits/  Six seminars conducted, 86 audits
(hotels)            predefined measures; dissemination of information on  certification for hotels. Results  conducted, 59 hotels rated. Six
energy efficiency and comprehensive resource         disseminated through national      hotels received highest rating - 5
_  management in hotels.                              tourism publications.              green leaves.
- 17-



Table 2 (continued)
Program              Sector                       Program  Description                       Incentive Mechanism                    Status/Results
New Buildings      Commercial           Analysis of viability of all efficiency measures in buildings  Demonstration buildings, technical  Program placed on hold after
and support to construction companies for all viable  assistance and possible financial  financial crisis and resulting dip in
efficiency measures that exceed building code       incentives.                        new building construction market.
requirements,
Brown Rice         Residential,         Promotion of less energy-intensive and nutritional brown    Promotional campaign in partnership   59 brands of brown jasmine rice
Agricultural,        rice through advertising and labeling; distribution of brown  with Ministries of Health,  now receive labels. Evaluation of
Education            rice in public school lunch programs.               Agriculture, Interior and Education.    program is now underway.
High-Efficiency    Industrial           Catalyzation of HEM market through testing/ labeling,  EGAT-sponsored promotional      62 motors procured for
Motors (HEMs)                           demonstrations, information dissemination and       campaigns, interest-free loans and  demonstration/testing purposes, but
manufacturer negotiations. Future efforts may include  demonstrations.                 only about four customers have
brochures on motor sizing, HEM payback periods and                                     purchased HEMs to date; motor
technical assistance for rewinding and drive systems.                                  testing lab now operational.
Low-Loss           Commercial,          Promotion of low-loss magnetic ballasts through bulk  Labeling and informational        Since 1997, about 545,000 number 5
Ballasts           Residential,         distribution arrangement and through green          campaigns sponsored by EGAT.        labels were distributed to 11
Industrial           buildings/industrial cost reduction programs. The program                              manufacturers, although no
would promote new ballasts only and not retrofits of                                   promotion was done. The program
existing equipment.                                                                    is now on hold due to funding
constraints.
Pilot ESCO         Industrial           Demonstration of ESCO concept through development of   EGAT bore development and audit    Four investment grade audits
four pilot projects and dissemination of results.   cost for pilots and would seek an  completed. Negotiations with ECF,
interest subsidy from the ECF.     commercial banks and customers are
underway.
Industrial Cost    Industrial           Similar to the Green Buildings Program, this program  Audits and technical advice is    30 audits conducted to date. Future
Reduction                               promotes retrofits and investments in industrial end-user    provided to participants as well as  program will depend upon HEM and
premises.                                           assistance in accessing ECF funding.   ESCO programs as well as
availability of suitable financing
facilities.
Small and          Commercial,          Preparation of action plan and workshop to support  EGAT sponsored workshops,          Fourteen demonstration projects
Medium             Industrial           predefined efficiency measures in SME premises;     brochures and standardized         conducted; negotiations with ECF
Enterprises                             proposed plan to include concessional ECF financing.  applications for certain end-uses,  underway for large-scale
(SME)                                                                                       concessional financing.             implementation and financing.
Load               Commercial,          Voluntary programs to encourage load management     Participants are eligible for a     Although some 190 customers have
Management*       Industrial            through stand-by generation, interruptible load and time-    concessional tariff scheme.  expressed interest in participating,
of-use tariff schemes.                                                                 programs are on hold pending
current capacity surpluses.
Thernal Storage   Commercial            Demonstration 350 kW thermal storage system was     Construction of demonstration       Future promotion of technology is
constructed on EGAT premises for testing and assessment   facility.                    dependent upon financial viability,
of commercial viability.                                                               which is marginal at present.
Attitude Creation   Residential,        Comprehensive portfolio of publicity campaigns for  EGAT-sponsored public campaigns    Substantial increased awareness for
Commercial,          specific DSM measures as well as energy conservation in   and advertising; grants to schools to    energy conservation; 87% of survey
Industrial,          general through all media. Program also includes a Green   support Green Leaming Room  respondents are aware of energy
Educational          Learning Room in public schools to educate students on  equipment and training materials.  efficiency issues; over 200 Green
the importance of energy conservation and the link                                     Learning Rooms now operational.
between energy and the environment.
*     Since these load management initiatives all involve tariff incentives, they were launched and are managed by NEPO, not EGAT. However, EGAT and the other utilities have
provided some assistance in customer recruitment and the DSMO has evaluated some of these programs to determined the impacts and customer response.
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Original Performance Indicators
Indicator                                      Projected in MOD                           Actual*
Energy Savings (MWh)                                            1,427                         3,140
Peak Reduction (MW)                                               238                           566
CO2 emissions reduction (tons)                             1,160,000                     2,320,486
*     It should be noted that the projected savings were based on a five-year implementation period
whereas the actual savings are based on a six-and-a-half year project. Actual impact estimates are
conservative as these are based on evaluation results from five energy conservation programs only
(fluorescent tube lamps, CFLs, refrigerators, air conditioners and street lighting). Due to poor baseline
data, program monitoring and a lack of confidence by EGAT and the IMEA in the load management
evaluation consultant's conclusions, impact figures for the Green Buildings Program were not reported.
Impacts from other programs launched since 1997 have also not been reported since these programs have
not yet achieved full-scale implementation and have thus not been evaluated. (See EGAT's DSM Program
Evaluation Report, October 2000 in the Project file for further discussion.)
Retrofitted Performance Indicators (as of February 1997)
Outcome i Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Energy savings by program:                 Energy savings by program:          Energy savings by program:
(a) Lighting (139 MW; 759 GWhlyr)         (a) 273 MW; 1,446 GWh/yr             (a) 399 MW; 1,973 GWh/yr
(b) Refrigerators (27 MW; 185 GWh/yr)      (b) 18 MW; 340 GWh/yr               (b) 84 MW; 849 GWh/yr
(c) Air conditioners (22 MW; 117 GWh/yr)   (c) 26 MW; 251 GWh/yr               (c) 84 MW; 318 GWh/yr
(d) Green buildings (20 MW; 140 GWh/yr)   (d) 0 MW; 0 GWh/yr                   (d) 0 MW; 0 GWh/yr
(e) Motors (30 MW; 225 GWh/yr)            (e) 0 MW; 0 GWh/yr                   (e) 0 MW; 0 GWhlyr
(f) TOTAL (238 MW; 1,427 GWh/yr)          (f) 317 MW; 2,037 GWh/yr             (f) 566 MW; 3,140 GWh/yr
Carbon dioxide reductions by program:      CO2 reduction by program:           C02 reduction by program:
(a) Lighting                              (a) 895,099 tons                     (a) 1,457,807 tons
(b) Refrigerators                         (b) 210,365 tons                     (b) 627,365 tons
(c) Air conditioners                      (c) 155,174 tons                     (c) 235,314 tons
(d) Green buildings                       (d) 0 tons                           (d) 0 tons
(e) Motors                                 (e) 0 tons                          (e) 0 tons
(f) TOTAL (1,160,000 tons)                (D 1,260,638 tons                    (f) 2,320,486 tons
Program evaluation                         Programs evaluated.                 Programs evaluated.
Implementation of 4 pilot ESCO projects    4 projects prepared and financing   4 projects prepared and
secured.                            financing under negotiation.
Capacity building                          Training programs developed and     Training programs developed
implemented.                        and implemented.
Initiate load research                     170 meters installed and data collected  170 meters installed and data
and analyzed.                       collected and analyzed.
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
___________________________________              Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million*
DSM Program Implementation: Residential            74.00              5.21             7.04
DSM Program Implementation: Commercial             39.10             2.41              6.16
DSM Program Implementation: Industrial             18.80             2.58             13.72
Laboratory, Testing Equipment                       4.00              1.67            41.75
Consulting Services                                 4.00              5.09           127.25
Training                                            5.00              0.50**          10.00
Public Relations                                    9.00            24.39            271.00
DSM Administration                                 15.00             12.37            82.47
DSM Program Monitoring/Evaluation                    8.60             5.03            58.49
Total Baseline Cost                               177.50             59.26            33.38
Physical Contingencies                            11.50
Total Project Costs                   189.00            59.26             31.35
Total Financing Required                    189.00             59.26            31.35
*    Al] component costs include DSM program expenses from EGAT and MEA. Expenses before July 1, 1997
are based on an exchange rate of B 25=USD 1; after July 1,1997 an exchange rate of B 40=USD 1 was used.
* *   During project implementation, EGAT determined that it would be more appropriate to include training
tasks with all major consulting assignments rather than hire consultants only for training, thus the estimated
training expenses reported appear much lower than actual expenses.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category         ICB           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)                     (0.00)
2. Goods                        3.00           4.00         1.00        87.40          95.4
(2.00)       (2.50)        (0.50)                     (5.00)
3. Services                     0.00           7.00         1.00        29.30         37.30
Marketing, engineering,        (0.00)         (4.50)       (0.50)                     (5.00)
installation, testing,
monitoring and evaluation
4. Consulting                    0.00          0.00         6.00         6.50          12.50
Technical assistance and        (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.50)                     (5.50)
training
5. DSMO Administration          0.00           0.00         0.00         14.50         14.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)                     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00         0.00         29.3         29.30
(Incentives)                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)                     (0.00)
Total                         3.00          11.00        8.00        167.00        189.00
(2.00)       (7.00)        (6.50)                    (15.50)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method]
Expenditure Category          ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00           0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)                      (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.68          6.10         0.61          4.95          12.34
(0.48)       (4.27)        (0.42)                     (5.18)
3. Services                       0.00          0.63         2.30         24.14         27.07
Marketing, engineering,           (0.00)       (0.44)        (2.02)                     (2.46)
installation, testing,
monitoring and evaluation
4. Consulting                     0.00          0.70          6.78         0.00          7.48
Technical assistance and          (0.00)       (0.70)        (6.78)                     (7.48)
training
5. DSMO Administration            0.00          0.00         0.00         12.37          12.37
(0.00)       (0 .00)       (0.00)                     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous (Incentives)     0.00          0.00     T   0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)                     (0.00)
Total                          0.68          7.44          9.69        41.46          59.26
(0.48)       (5.42)    j  (9.22)                      (15.12)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
DSM Program Cost-Effectiveness (Appraisal Estimates)
PROGRAM                                          TRC
Residential Sector
Refrigerators                                                            6.85
Air Conditioners                                                         9.86
Lighting                                                                 2.00
Commercial and Government Sectors
Lighting                                                                 2.00
New Buildings                                                            2.60
Industrial Sector
Lighting                                                                 2.00
Motor Systems                                                            3.60
DSM Program Cost Effectiveness (Actual Estimates*)
Program              Participant Test        Utility Test            TRC
Fluorescent tube lamps              54.6                 28.5                 13.8
CFLs                                 2.3                  2.2                 0.7
Air Conditioners                     1.6                  14.5                 1.1
Refrigerators                        6.5                  17.5                 1.6
Street Lighting**                    0.8                 0.003               0.005
TOTAL***                      5.3                  7.0                  1.7
*       The following assumptions are used in calculating cost-effectiveness:
Marginal cost of electricity production  0.8198 Baht/kWh (US$0.0205)
Marginal cost of new capacity          6,999 Baht/peak kW (US$175)
Discount rate                          10%
4*      While the cost tests clearly indicate that this program was not cost-effective, and the DSMO accepted
the result, these tests may not be appropriate to properly assess the unique nature of this program.
* * *   These totals are based on the benefits of these five programs, but include the costs of all the DSM
programs implemented to date.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)
Count    Specialty                   Implementation     Development
Month/Year                                             Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/91                      2    Task Manager, DSM
Specialist
4/92                        1    Task Manager
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/92                      4    Task Manager, Lawyer, 2
DSM Specialists
3/93                        3    Task Manager, Lawyer, DSM
Specialist
Supervision
5/95                        2   Operations Officer, DSM             S                 S
Specialist
8/95                        2   Operations Officer, DSM             S                 S
Specialist
3/96                        4   Task Manager, Operations            S                 S
Officer, DSM Specialist,
Operations Analyst
2/97                        2   Operations Officer, Technical        S                S
Specialist
12/97                       2   Operations Officer, Technical       S                 S
Specialist
6/98                        2   Operations Officer, Technical       S                 U
Specialist
12/99                       2   Task Manager, DSM Specialist        S                 S
4/00                        3   Task Manager, DSM                    S                S
Specialist, DSM Evaluation
Specialist
ICR
10/00                      2    DSM Specialist, DSM                 S                 S
Evaluation Specialist
- 23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle            Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks         US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation      15.00                  37.50
Appraisal/Negotiation           18.95                  47.37
Supervision                     87.97                 367.63
ICR                             10.00                  47.30
Total                          131.92                 499.79
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Ai Macropolicies                                 H  I SU*M    )N          NA
-it Sector Policies                              H  *`SU  )M  'N          NA
- Physical                                      H    'SU   M  ON          NA
] Financial                                  'H       SUOM     N         NA
i I'Institutional Development                 * H      SU( 'M    )N       NA
[ Environmental                              I H      SU    M  !N  *NA
Social
! Poverty Reduction                      H    'SU'  M    'N  *NA
Gender                              '  H  I SU   M  I IN  *NA
3 Other (Please specify)                'H     SU   AM      N  *NA
LI Private sector development                   'H       SU( M      N  I )NA
K] Public sector management                      H   I SU 0 M  ' N    )NA
-7 Other (Please specify)                       H  *SU, M    'N          NA
Local/National Market Conditions
-25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
[I Lending                                           HS * S       U     HU
-I Supervision                                      )HS OS  'U    'HU
Li' Overall                                         ) HS * S      U     HU
6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating
F] Preparation                                      HS * S       U     HU
I Government implementation performance             HS * S   WU        HU
Implementation agency performance                  HS * S      U  ( HU
E Overall                                            HS * S  'U    'HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
See Project file for:
1. Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement, July 30, 1993.
2. Global Environment Facility Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director,
East Asia and Pacific Country Department I, to the Regional Vice President, April 7,
1993.
3. Pre-Investment Appraisal Report, IIEC, October 1992.
4 Supervision Aide Memoires, February 10, 1994 through April 3, 2000.
5. World Bank/GEF Mid-Term Review Report, September 1996.
6. EGAT DSM Program Evaluation Report, October 2000.
7. EGAT DSM Five-Year Plan (2001-2005), October 2000.
- 27 -



Annex 8
October 10, 2000
AIDE-MEMOIRE
World Bank ICR Mission
GEF - Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project (TH-GE-28637)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.   A World Bank mission composed of Jas Singh (Energy Efficiency Specialist) and
Adam Hinge (Consultant) visited the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT) from September 27 - October 10, 2000, to conduct an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) mission of the above-mentioned GEF Project. The mission
met with staff from EGAT's Demand-Side Management Office (DSMO), the
Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA), the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO),
the Department of Energy Development and Promotion (DEDP), and the Australian
Embassy. The mission also attended the opening ceremony of a Green Learning Room at
Satree Nonthaburi Secondary School and a Green Leaf Certification Ceremony.
2.   The mission objectives were to: (i) assess the status of achievement of the Project
objectives and completion of the various components; (ii) discuss finalization of the
Project Completion Report prepared by the grant beneficiary (EGAT); and (iii) identify
and obtain outstanding data requirements for the Bank's ICR. The mission wishes to
thank EGAT's DSMO for its excellent preparation and cooperation during its stay.
B.     BACKGROUND
3.   The Project was approved by the Bank's Executive Board on April 27, 1993 and
made effective on November 29, 1993. Based on the original five-year project period,
the Closing Date was initially scheduled for December 31, 1998. However, due to initial
start-up delays and later than expected completion of DSM program evaluation, the
Project's Closing Date was extended twice and closed on June 30, 2000.
C.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
4.   Objectives: The GEF Project objectives were to: (a) build sufficient institutional
capability in the Thai electric power sector and the energy-related private sector to
deliver cost-effective energy services throughout the economy; and (b) pursue policies
and actions that would lead to the development, manufacture and adoption of energy-
efficient equipment and processes within the country. The main GEF objective in
funding the Project was to demonstrate on a large scale, and within a reasonable time
frame: (i) the potential for electricity savings to replace substantial fossil fuel power
generation, thereby avoiding additional CO2 (NO, and SO2) emissions; and (ii) the
capacity of the electric power sector and other relevant agencies, public and private, to
achieve those savings. The broader, global objective was to generate among utilities in
other developing countries a similar commitment to undertake large-scale DSM
programs.
- 28 -



5.   The Project was expected to have a significant value for other developing
countries in selected energy sub-sectors and end-uses. It was anticipated that the Project
would demonstrate: (a) how power utilities and the economy can benefit from
investments made in electricity conservation on a sufficiently large scale; (b) how
institutional problems can be resolved and the utilities can gear up to manage the program
and sustain it in the future; and (c) how major demand-management options can be
optimally integrated with supply-side options.
6.   Project Components: The original project design had the following components:
(a) creation of an organizational unit within EGAT to plan, develop and implement a
broad menu of DSM programs across all sectors, along with providing for the required
staff training and capability building; (b) development and implementation of
technological and market intervention strategies in the residential, commercial and
industrial sectors; (c) development of funding and financial mechanisms to assure market
adoption of the various energy efficiency programs; (d) development and promulgation
of necessary codes and standards to support higher levels of equipment efficiency in all
sectors; (e) establishment of testing laboratories and the associated processes of
equipment testing and rating; (f) development of project evaluation and monitoring
systems including sector-specific evaluation and monitoring protocol; (g) development
and training of energy service companies and DSM program contractors in the public and
private sectors; (h) integration of supply-side and demand-side planning and
incorporation of environmental externalities in the electricity planning process; (i)
development of a direct utility load control program; and (.) undertaking special studies
as needed to maintain cognizance of emerging technologies with relevance to the
Thailand environment.
D.     MISSION FINDINGS
7.   Status of Components: With respect to the components defined at appraisal, a
review of progress was conducted. The extent of completion of these individual
components is summarized below in Table 1.
Table 1. Status of Project Components
Component                                   Status
a) Create DSMO within       EGAT established a DSMO in 1993 with 40 staff and now has 176
EGAT                    trained DSM staff as well as 166 temporary contractors working on
DSM activities in two divisions.
b) Develop and implement    The DSMO has initiated or participated in 19 DSM programs in all
DSM programs            three sectors.
c) Develop financing       NEPO allowed EGAT to recover DSM expenses through an
mechanisms for DSM      automatic tariff adjustment (Ft) from 1993 and throughout the
Project term.
d) Develop codes and        Although outside EGAT's jurisdiction, a commercial building code
standards               was established in 1995 and an industrial code in 1997. Stimulated,
in part, by EGAT's labeling programs, NEPO has now developed
minimum equipment standards for 5 end-uses, which have been
approved in principal and will be mandatory in about 3-4 years.
- 29 -



Component                                     Status
e) Establish testing capability   EGAT has worked closely with the Thai Industrial Standards
Institute (TISI) to develop testing capability and protocol, tested a
wide range of appliances and lighting equipment and provided
some funds to expand their AC testing capabilities. EGAT also
allocated GEF funds to MEA to establish a motor testing lab to
support its motor programs.
f) Develop monitoring and    The DSMO has: (i) created a program evaluation department with
evaluation functions      appropriate staff numbers and skills to monitor and evaluate DSM
measures. This group has developed an overall assessment of
initial conservation and load management programs; (ii) initiated
system-wide load research end-use profiles and supported MEA's
end-user load research, which have helped better determine
electricity consumption patterns and identify ongoing program
impacts and future program priorities; and (iii) established the
architecture for a comprehensive tracking database system to assist
in future monitoring efforts.
g) Develop private sector    The DSMO launched an industrial pilot ESCO program and
capability to deliver DSM    supported the development of four investment packages, which will
lead to the first performance contracts in Thailand. The DSMO has
also made extensive use of local contractors to conduct market
surveys, initiate public campaigns, perform evaluation functions,
conduct end-use metering and support other DSMO functions.
h) Initiate IRP functions    Due to restructuring, the DSMO did not develop a full IRP
program, but did develop a comprehensive demand-side inventory
of programs, savings potential, cost and benefit profiles, and
technical assessments for future interventions.
i) Develop load control      NEPO established voluntary load control programs, with associated
programs                 tariff schedules, in conjunction with EGAT, MEA and PEA.
However, due to the resulting capacity surplus from the financial
crisis, these programs have not yet been implemented. The DSMO
also demonstrated the use of load management systems in
commercial buildings and constructed a pilot thermal storage
facility.
j) Undertake special studies    EGAT has explored a number of potential technologies that could
support further DSM efforts, including a new buildings end-use
and envelope measures, heat pipe technologies, stand-by energy
consumption, and renewable energy study.
8.    The DSMO  has engaged a number of international advisors, consultants and
contractors to support its operations.  These assignments are now  completed and all
deliverables, reports, and services have been submitted and certified by DSMO staff. Since
the last supervision mission conducted by the Bank, a number of outstanding assignments,
including the load research program, impact/process evaluations, IRP program development,
tracking database and renewable energy study, have now  been completed.  The only
outstanding program is EGAT's pilot ESCO program, which is discussed further in para 10.
- 30 -



9.    Overall Project Results: While implementation varied somewhat from the original
plans, due to necessary adjustments to improve local acceptance of DSM program strategies
and address other implementation issues, the mission observed that the DSMO has largely
fulfilled the Project requirements and completed the individual components. The programs
launched have achieved substantial and sustained energy savings and transformed domestic
markets for energy-efficiency products and services. And, it was noted that overall impact
estimates indicate that EGAT has substantially exceeded the original peak demand reduction,
energy savings, and CO2 emission reduction targets at a cost far less than originally expected.
10.   Outstanding Issues: The remaining program, for which the agreed results have not yet
been achieved, is EGAT's pilot industrial ESCO program. While all four preliminary and
investment-grade audits are completed, financing has still not been secured. The main reason
is the substantial delays in EGAT, DEDP and NEPO reaching agreement on a suitable
framework to support these pilots with partial funding from the Thai Energy Conservation
Promotion Fund (ECF). During the mission, the ECF Compulsory Program Sub-Committee
reviewed the first investment project, which involved the ECF providing an interest subsidy
and a commercial bank providing the financing, but requested that the ESCO and EGAT
guarantee the project performance. This would require the ESCO to pay back the ECF
interest subsidy and EGAT to repay its project management fee to the ECF in the event of
project savings less than 80% of the expected value. The mission noted that such a request
imposed unreasonable conditions on EGAT and the ESCOs and stressed that this program was
only designed to demonstrate the concept of performance contracts and should not be held to
such unfair standards. EGAT and DEDP will appeal this decision and EGAT agreed to keep
the Bank informed on any new developments over the coming weeks. Two additional
investment proposals are also being finalized and will be submitted to the Sub-Committee
within the next two months, so these negotiations on the first investment are critical. A fourth
project was cancelled, due to the customer's unwillingness to continue to wait for the
promised ECF interest subsidy and implemented a number of the measures on its own.
11.   Sustainability and Operation Plan: Sustainability of the DSMO and its activities has
been extremely uncertain over the past several months, due largely to impending restructuring
plans and EGAT's eventual privatization as well as the decision .to eliminate DSM funding
through the F. EGAT informed the mission that NEPO and EGAT have now reached
agreement, which has also been supported by a Cabinet Resolution, for the DSMO to remain
under EGAT until the successful commissioning of the power pool (about 2003), with
program funding to be made available through EGAT's base tariff. Under this plan, the
DSMO and EGAT's Research and Development Office would be combined (around 2002)
and would seek ECF funding once the base tariff was no longer able to support these
functions.' The DSMO is still required to submit a detailed proposal for funding for this
period, along with an implementation plan and proposed activities to be conducted. Sustained
operation after this period, however, is less certain. In the future, the DSMO may be required
to be spun-off into an independent service provider and implement programs to support public
and private measures on a fee-for-service basis. Given the substantial staffing implications of
The DSMO noted, however, that EGAT's corporate plan has not been revised to reflect this Resolution.
- 31 -



such an arrangement, the mission recommended that EGAT maintain continued dialogue
among the relevant agencies over the coming years. EGAT also agreed to submit its future
operation plan, which would summarize its detailed proposal to NEPO and outline the plans
to sustain activities initiated under the GEF Project, no later than October 31, 2000.
12.   The mission noted that, due to EGAT's promotion policies and procedures, the DSMO
Director has changed four times in the past few years. While EGAT management expressed
its commitment to sustain DSM activities, the mission cautioned EGAT that future operations
and successful performance would be critical over the next few years, as are the status of
negotiations with NEPO and other agencies over this period. The mission requested that
EGAT management seek measures to better insulate DSM operations from future staffing and
institutional changes to ensure that operations, funding and strategic direction are maintained
during this critical period.
13.   Disbursements: Overall Project disbursements now stand at 99.3 percent. During the
previous supervision mission, EGAT and the Bank agreed on a four-month grace period for
withdrawal applications, which will end on October 31, 2000. The DSMO has recently
submitted its final two withdrawal applications for an estimated US$103,111, which are
expected to fully exhaust the grant funds. Once these applications have been processed,
EGAT agreed to inform the Bank that disbursements were complete and advise the Bank on
any cancellation of remaining grant funds.
14.   Program Evaluation: In early September, EGAT submitted a draft evaluation report of
its initial DSM programs to the Bank. During the mission, this report was reviewed and
discussed in detail. While the mission accepted the magnitude of savings, which have clearly
exceeded GEF Project targets, the mission requested, and EGAT agreed, to the following
changes before the report is finalized: (i) EGAT incorporate AMI's estimated free ridership
for non-residential participants in its CFL program; (ii) EGAT adjust the free ridership for the
air conditioner program to only account for those participants that utilized the interest-free
loans; (iii) EGAT report overall cost-effectiveness figures for the entire portfolio of programs
as well as those for the programs for which benefits have been accrued; and (iv) EGAT
reconsider the appropriateness of the baseline scenarios for the refrigerator program and make
necessary adjustments.
E.     AGREEMENTS/NEXT STEPS
15.  In order for the ICR to be completed, the mission team and EGAT agreed to the
following schedule:
a) EGAT will revise and submit its final DSM program evaluation report to the Bank
no later than October 31, 2000;
b) EGAT will finalize and submit its PCR to the Bank no later than October 31, 2000;
c) EGAT will prepare and submit its operation plan for the next five years, indicating
plans to sustain project activities, no later than October 31, 2000;
d) EGAT will finalize the project cost tables and submit them to the Bank no later
than October 31, 2000;
- 32 -



e) E.GAT will submit notitication onice the final w*ithdrawal applications have been
processed and request that the Bank cancel any remaining grant funds from the GEE and
GOA accounts before October 31. 2000;
t) T-he Bank will submit a draft copy of its ICR to EGAI' for reviewv no later than
November 30, 2000; and
c) EGAT will review and provide tormal comments on the draft ICR. if any. no later
than December 15. 2000.
c~~L 
Of. L. Chan      Kridakorn                  Jas Sing
Deputy Govemor, Policy and Planning         Energy Efficiency Specialist
EGAT                                        The World Bank
- 33 -



Annex 9
7J   Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
., .
Thailand
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency
(GEF Grant No. TH-28637)
Beneficiary's Project Completion Report
Prepared by
Planning and Evaluation Department
Demand Side Management and Planning Division
October, 2000
- 34 -



Beneficiary's Project Completion Report
Content                                                            Page
Executive Summary                                                     1
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                       I
B. Achievement of Objectives                                    2
C. Implementation Records and Major Factors Affecting the Project  3
D. Project Sustainability                                       4
E. Bank Performance                                             4
F. Beneficiary Performance                                      5
G. Assessment of Outcome                                        5
H. Future Operation                                             7
I.  Key Lesson Learned                                          7
Attachment 1                                                    8
-35 -



List of Abbreviations
BTU        British Thermal Unit
CFC        Chlorofluorocarbon
CFL        Compact Fluorescent Lamp
COP        Coefficient of Performance
DEDP       Department of Energy Development and Promotion
DSM       Demand Side Management
DSMO      Demand Side Management Office
ECF        Energy Conservation Fund
EER       Energy Efficiency Ratio
EGAT      Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ESCO      Energy Service Company
ESI       Electric Supply Industry
GEF        Global Environmental Facility
GHG       Greenhouse Gas
GWh        Gigawatt hour (=1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
IMEA       Independent Monitoring and Evaluation Agency
IPCC      Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IRP        Integrated Resource Planning
JBIC      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KW         Kilowatt (= 1,000 watts)
KWh        Kilowatt hour (= 1,000 watts)
MEA       Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MW         Megawatt (=1,000,000 Watts)
NEPO      National Energy Policy Office
PEA       Provincial Electricity Authority
TISI       Thai Industrial Standard Institute
- 36 -



Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency
(GEF Grant No. TH-28637)
Beneficiary's Project Completion Report
Executive Summary
This report was prepared as a part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of
the Thailand Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency under the GEF Grant No. TH-
28637.
The Project consisted of a five-year DSM Master Plan with a budget of US$ 189.0
million, of which US$ 9.5 million was financed by a GEF grant, US$ 6.0 million by a
Government of Australia (GOA) grant through the GEF, and US$ 28.0 million through a
concessional loan from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan. The
Project targeted the electricity savings of 238 MW and 1,427 GWh (per year) by the end
of 1997. Two official extensions of the Project period were made and the final closing
date was June 30, 2000.
Over a period of about 7 years, the Project was considered successful with electricity
savings of 3,140 GWh per year, peak load reduction by 566 MW and avoided 2.32
million tons of CO2 emission per year (as of June 2000). The total expenditure to date for
all programs is US$ 59.26 million. The other sustainable benefits from Thai DSM
initiatives are public awareness of energy savings and institutional capability
development.
Essentially, EGAT was pleased with the project outcome. The achievement of objectives
was substantial providing many benefits to the country with costs much lower than
anticipated level. This performance experience is not only be of great values to Thailand
but also will become the model for other developing economies to understand the
economic power of energy conservation.
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
The primary objectives of the Project were to: (a) build sufficient institutional capability
in the Thai electric power sector and the energy-related private sector to deliver cost-
effective energy services throughout the economy; and (b) pursue policies and actions
that would lead to the development, manufacture and adoption of energy-efficient
equipment and processes within the country. The main GEF objective in supporting the
Project was to demonstrate on a large scale the potential for electricity savings to replace
substantial fossil fuel power generation, thereby avoiding greenhouse gas emissions. The
GEF's broader, global objective was to generate among utilities in other developing
countries a similar commitment to undertake large scale DSM programs.
Based on these objectives, the Project had electricity saving target of 238 MW and 1,427
GWh which simultaneously resulted in reduction of 1.16 million tons of CO2 emission.
- 37 -



The Project substantially met these objectives as follows;
(a.l) Building institutional capability
The two DSM divisions currently exist in EGAT with about 170 permanent and trained
staff. The Project also created an energy efficiency testing facilities at the Thailand
Industrial Standard Institute (TISI) and at MEA, the distribution utility. In addition, the
Project supported the creation of private sector energy services companies (ESCOs) and
the implementation of four pilot ESCO projects. EGAT has also extensively utilized
number of local contractors to conduct market and customer surveys, initiate public
campaigns, perform evaluation functions, conduct end-use metering and support other
implementation functions.
(a.2) Pursuing policies and actions
The Project has implemented sixteen DSM programs initiatives with two programs
completed and yielded savings. Three of the programs underway have secured energy
efficiency improvements among local and imported products. Other ongoing programs
have assured significant participation from end-users in residential, commercial and
industrial sectors. (See Attachment 1. for program summary). Regarding EGAT's
eventual privatization, agreement has been reached that DSM activities and funding will
be remained under EGAT's support until the successful commissioning of the power pool
(about 2003). After that, the DSMO may be required to be spun-off into an independent
service provider and implement programs to support public and private measures on a
fee-for-service basis.
B. Achievement of Objectives
With respect to demonstrating large scale savings, the Project had achieved savings of
3,140 GWh of electricity per year, reduced peak load by 566 MW and avoided 2.32
million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission per year, as of June 30, 2000 (see Table
1). These savings considerably exceeded targeted value. The Project had created the
largest DSM program in Asia and attracted serious interest in DSM from other utilities in
the region.
- 38 -



TABLE 1: PROJECT IMPACTS - ACHIEVED AND TARGETED
Impact            Unit
1. ACHIEVED   2. ACHIEVED   3. ACHIEVED    4. TARGET
(as of 1998)    (as of 1999)  (as of Jun.    (1993- 1998)
_ _ _ _ ___                             _ _ ___                     2000>       ._   ._.
Energy Savings       GWh              2,401          2,836         3,140          1,427
...............~~~~~~~~~ .... .............  ......... ... ...  ......  ....... ...............................  ...............   . ............  ........... ............. ..... ........ . f   ............... .. .3 6 6   . ..... .1-1 -~ V ..... .......... ..
Demand Reduction   MW                  432           511      .     566     .     238
COEmission  M~ iio- Ton                       0 s         -1.77    ----2--.--- . .....I6
Reduction
C. Implementation Records and Major Factors Affecting the Project
There were many important modification and factors affecting the Project
implementation and results as follows:
(c.1) The DSMMaster Plan and Its Implementation
Instead of providing end-use customer incentives as envisioned by the DSM Master Plan,
EGAT's implementation strategy focused on the production-side of the energy efficient
technologies, which has led to the virtual elimination of low-efficiency products such as
complete transformation of the T12 fluorescent tube (40/20 Watt) market into T8 (36/18
Watt).
(c. 2) Project Extensions
The original five-year DSM Master Plan was from 1993-1997 and was automatically
expanded to 1998 since the first program was officially launched by the end of 1993.
Moreover, two official extensions of the Project implementation period were approved to
allow additional time to ensure that the project objectives were fully met and the Project
funds fully disbursed. The final closing date was June 30, 2000.
(c.3) Change in System Peak Time Period
The original DSM master plan and the estimated results were developed on the basis that
EGAT's system peak occurred during the hours of 6:00-9:00 PM. In 1997, EGAT
realized and officially accepted that the system peak period had shifted to the afternoon
- 39 -



hours of 2:00-5:00 PM. This changed affected the results of some DSM programs which
were originally designed for evening peak period caused by residential demand. To be
specific, four programs resulted in lower peak demand savings (three lighting program;
Thin tube, CFLs and Street lighting, and one residential refrigerator program) and one
program (Air Conditioner) showed higher result.
(c.4) Economic Recession in 1997
Thailand's economic downturn since 1997 was a major factor that decreased sales and
manufacturing of energy-efficient equipment. Some DSM initiatives such as low loss
ballast and interruptible rate programs were delayed due to less participation than
anticipated. ESCO program development was significantly delayed due to difficulties
identifying viable sources of project financing, reluctance of lenders to take on any credit
risk at the height of the crisis, and the difficulty of ESCOs to find creditworthy
customers.
D. Project Sustainability
Under the upcoming restructured electric supply industry (ESI), EGAT will be
transformed into transmission company with divestiture of all generation functions.
Moreover, the tariff surcharge which had been a major source of funding for EGAT's
DSM operation was recently eliminated. Due to the combination of these two factors, it
was concluded that the continued placement of the DSMO within EGAT will become
increasingly inappropriate. There were several studies and discussions on this issue until
recently NEPO and EGAT have reached agreement, which has also been supported by a
cabinet resolution, for the DSMO to remain under EGAT until the successful
commissioning of the Thailand power pool (about 2003), with program funding to be
made available through EGAT's base tariff. Under this plan, The DSMO and EGAT's
Renewable Energy Unit (currently under EGAT's Research and Development Office)
would be combined (around 2002) and would seek Thai's Energy Conservation Fund
once the base tariff was no longer able to support these functions. Accordingly, the
DSMO is required to be spun-off into an independent service provider (ISP) and
implement programs to support public and private sectors on a fee-for-service basis.
Although details of how EGAT's DSM will develop itself into ISP in the near or longer
term is not yet determined, it is apparent, at least, that emerging of the country's energy
saving effort initiated by EGAT's DSM will be sustained by support from NEPO and the
government.
- 40 -



E. Bank Performance
The Bank personnel provided appropriate and timely advice to the parties concerned with
project administration. The quality of the Bank supervisory staff was in general of a very
high standard and committed to the achievement of the goals of the Project as evident in
support given for the granting of the extensions to the Project's original closing date.
In addition, regarding grant disbursement, the Bank was very cooperative and helpful to
EGAT as well. The Bank's overall performance can be rated satisfactory.
F. Beneficiary Performance
During initial project period, there was a slow rate of disbursement due to: (a) the delay
in startup of DSM program (September 1993); (b) difficulties in following the Bank's
procurement procedures; and (c) an initial focus on building in-house capacity to design
and implement low-cost programs such as the High-Efficiency Fluorescent Tube and
Refrigerator Program. Regarding procurement difficulties, the situation was remedied by
close communication wvith the procurement specialist at the Resident Mission.
In addition, at the initial period, there was also lack of systematic program planning and
proper market research prior to program implementation to pave the way for effective
program monitoring and evaluation. However, EGAT has now accepted the need for
more systematic planning and the current DSM resource plans (IRP plans) have
incorporated more rigorous analyses and coherent strategic plans.
G. Assessment of Outcome
EGAT's DSM obviously met and exceeded the overall energy saving targets as stated in
Table 1. With respect to cost-effectiveness analysis, Table 2 shows that EGAT's
evaluated conservation programs were cost-effective based on benefit-cost ratio results.
TABLE 2: PROGRAM COST EFFECTIVENESS
DSMf Program            Thin   Compact         Air      Refrigerator   Street   Total
Tube  Fluorescent Conditioner               Lighting
Benefit/Cost Ratio               Lamp
Participant Test-u      54.57     2.33         1.64        6.45       0.7766 i5.27
Utility Testy           28'.53 .... 2.22      144.75                   02       59
Total1Resource Cost Tese~ 13.78   0.74         1.14         1.57      0.0005   1.92
- 41 -



Note  1. Participant Test determines benefits versus costs from DSM measure (s) from the
end-users perspective.
2. Utility Test measures the utility's cost of saving a unit of electricity compared with
generating a unit of electricity.
3. Total Resource Cost Test is the comparison of utility's benefit with the sum of
participant and utility costs.
Additionally, further analysis of the Project's overall benefits is summarized in Table 3.
TABLE 3: SUMMARY OF BENEFITS OF EGAT's DSM INITIATIVES
: ; X Item         7                \ 0000 00 07 ;Summary
1. 'Total DSM Program Expenditure as of June 2000  1,915.76  Million Baht
2. Energy Savings                             3,139.80     GWh
3. Cost of DSM per kWh saved                 0.6102        Baht/kWh
4. Long Run Marginal Cost of Energy          0.8198        Baht/kWh
5. DSM Savings                               0.2096        Baht/kWh
6. Total DSM Savings                         658.10        Million Baht
(3,139.80 Cumulative GWh x 0.2096 Baht/kWh)
7. Annual CO2 Emission Reduction             2.32          Million tons
8. Cost of Reducing CO2 Emission             283.66        Baht/ton CO2
3.139.80 Cumulative GWh x 0.2096 Baht/kWifl
L 139.80  2.32 million tons of CO2     2
One of the Project's major achievements that cannot be overlooked was public awareness
of energy saving benefits generated through its promotional campaigns and education
program. The Green Learning Room initiative with schools was particularly noted as
effective and sustainable in raising awareness among students and teachers in energy use
and its links to the environment. According to recent research, "Assessment of Public
Energy Conservation Attitude by DSM programs", awareness, understanding and attitude
of general consumers and business entrepreneurs towards energy conservation
participation have been highly raised due to DSM public promotion campaign with 87%
of survey respondents are aware of energy efficiency issues. For education program,
students and instructors in 200 participating schools are greatly satisfied with the
activities and understand energy conservation in a significantly improved level.
Another major achievement was the institutional development evidenced by creation of
the DSMO within EGAT with over 170 well-trained staff, expansion of TISI's testing
facilities, and establishment of motor testing laboratory at MEA. There are also current
development of ESCO concept through EGAT's four pilot projects which are direct
creation of ESCO business in Thailand. Although this four pilots are still underway, it has
- 42 -



indirectly encouraged at least three other private sector ESCOs who benefited from
EGAT's promotion of the ESCO concept to develop ESCO projects on their own.
H. Future Operation
The DSM resource plan for a five-year time horizon from 2001-2005 was developed to
determine DSM resource potential (which is one aspect of the integrated resource
planning (IRP) development) and provide a more concrete background for funding
proposal preparation.
According to the plan, achievable DSM potential for 2001-2005 will generate
cumulatively 612 MW peak demand reduction and 3,949 GWh/year energy savings from
2005 representing 2.6% and 4.1% of the forecast peak demand and energy consumption
of the country respectively. Though DSM portfolio in this plan contains mostly the
ongoing efforts such as labeling and attitude creation programs, EGAT is strongly
confident that future achievement is considerably possible due to experienced staff and
well-established connection with concerned agencies in both private and public sector.
1. Key Lessons Learned
EGAT gains valuable lessons from implementation of DSM programs including but not
limited to the following issues:
(I. 1) Strong proactive with result-oriented style of management was one of the key
factors to the Project success.
(1.2) Program design based on local or cultural context was also a critical factor to the
success but without systematic planning and adequate market research, the success would
be very difficult or even impossible to measure.
(1.3) Secured long-term source of fund is another important factor. Due to not-for-
profit nature of EGAT's DSM programs, the firm commitment for long-term funding
from authorized government agency is necessary to encourage implementor of all levels.
- 43 -



Annex 10
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTEiORITY OF THAILAND
.4,a,Ns^/                BANG KRUAI NON0rILUtI 1'130 THA:AND
CABLE, EGAT NONTKUU TLX  72348,82711 EGAT T-. PAt (So2) 433 17,483-5523,434.4064
N1OEGAT    B3800/56395                    DA. --  December 15 , 2000
To         Mr. Jas Singh                  FROM
Energy Efficiency Specialist
DDast Asia & Pacific Energy    TLX
Development Sector Unit        TE_ : (202) 458-0478
Washington, D.C.                       (202) 477-2743
U.S.A.
NUMBER OF SHEET (S)  :3
Dear Mr. Singh
TEXT       Subject: ThailUnd OEF Promotion of Electricity Energy
eficeney Project: Draft Project Imilementation
Completion Report (ICR) for EGAT Comments
With reference to your draft Project Implementation Completion
Report attached to the fax dated December 5, 2000.  After
reviewing and requesting comments from other concerning
agencies/persons, ECBAT found most of the main text in this
report acceptable. Nevertheless, representatives from PEA and
MEA (DSM Sub-Committee) have made a few notifications for
your consideration.
1. In general, there should be an Executive Summnary in order
to brief the understanding of the executive.
2. All abbreviations and acronyms in the report should be
presented in the list.
For detailed comment;
3. In the topic 3.3 Original Components: MEA proposed to change
"energy Manaement companies" to uenergy services companies'.
However, EGAT prefers the first one.
And; adding the topic W) initiating load research system
within supply side; then (k) undertaking special studies as
needed.
* U you do rot receive any o! the pages or U-ie pages ase lleg te pIease caa i62a'4265292 or 'ax t3 t.e above tax nfLLrers.
- 44 -



4. The report focused too little on PEA implementation.
5. Inthe topic 8LsscnsLwned: auld ciderthese      d
* To avoid the overlapping implementation in Energy Efficiency
Program from the involved agencies such as NEPO, ECAT,
DEDP, PEA and MEA, a clear delineation of rules and
responsibilities of all agencies in the future is a substantial
need.
- To create co-operation, the program planning for the next
phase should be participated and coordinated by all
involved agencies,
Attached please find finalized Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement
Arrangements.
Kindly accept our sincere apologies for a delay in data provision.
Should you require any further clarification, please don't hesitate to
let us know.
Sincerely youra,
(Mr. Paitoon Pityachawan)
Director, Demand Side Management and Planning Division
Acting on behalf of Governor
Demand Side Management and Planning Division
Tel  :(662)4368150
Fax :(662) 4333329
- 45 -






IBRD 23925R
15015                                 10505  rk                                                                      1OWAU  ~~~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND
SainoV                                                                                                      METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (MEA)
*   o  Sainoi               s ^,, >                   ti\             \                                       DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
/                                                                                                                      220, 115.66 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V TRANSMISSION LINES (OVERHEAD)~~~~~~~~~~22, 15 6 V RASMSSONLNE (VEHED
\ IfE 220-                                                                                                                                                          115.66, kV TRANSMISSION LINES UNDERGROUND CABLE)
s  10 Ban Bua       P;k           AN                                                                                 SUBSTATIONS
0  0 Thong   tiNGTHONGI/  t  2  O TERMANALSTATIONS
0  *         ~~~~CLSTOMEB SUBSTATIONS
SWITCHIN'G STATION
'.     N O N T H A B U R I  n                                            g
ABANGITRAKYAI                                         B-ngkhenMETROPOLITAN ELECTRC TYAJTHORITY BOUNDARY
- _  _/___CHANGWAT (DISTRICT) BOUNDRIES
\                    1 ~~~~~~~       ~~Bangyai                                                                                  0          I                      I          I1 /      IOMTR  21
\  I   \s    Minburi                KILOMETERS
KLNGMAHASAWAD  Bangruar 
I- --                                  
i } Zr/6J) hX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bangkapi  . 
0 3                                                                                              1s  .  5   /   /,)    tt   >t /  B  >  L O w  /  o  5 3 45 -
, | t . t ,sit<. ; ) ~~P H R A ~
/                                                                                                                                                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A,                                                                                        - - -    - -On9                   /
Phasi Charden            THNTK
15015'~~
;4,       -  CHINA- -SOUT                                        Pradaeng .                                                                                                                                  I
MYANMAR        LAO .I
PEOPLESKUA
. .DEMUOBCR4Tc(*  ,R CH 
I'REPUBLC'~L
- THAILAND                                   O                                                                                                  npli
I k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IND;ONErSI A\   CAMBODIA                                                                                                 m    I  TPrO                                     1              Bangbo
0
1    ,-                           . |                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S A MlW   T   P RlA /KA N                                                
.   t MAAYr  44 '   _1330,  |                     ./  Gulf        </                                                              hisrr p h o                        13o30- |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~133
INDONESIA +                                                                                      -hL|  c [<Xlnt;on                                                        100'- f 4L5- i=shoaymrrymntph



