GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Thailand
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Project Document
April 1993
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists-developing countries to protect
the global envirofment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters.
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
arid the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Dcmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USIE ONLY
Rput No. 11543-TH
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.9 MILLION (US$9.5 MILLION)
TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
APRIL 7, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of December 1992)
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$1 - B 25.0
B1 - US$0.4
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV          -         kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA         -         kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA         -         megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW          -         kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW          -         megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh         -         kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh         -         gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEDP                Department of Energy Development and Promotion
DEQP                Department of Environmental Quality Promotion
DPC                 Department of Pollution Control
DSM                 Demand-Side Management
DSMP                Five-Year (1993-1997) DSM Plan
DSMO                Demand-Side Management Organization
ECCT                Energy Conservation Center of Thailand
ECF                 Energy Conservation Promotion Fund
EGAT                Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERI                 Energy Research Institute (Chulalongkorn University)
FPO                 Fiscal Policy Office
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GET                 Global Environment Trust
GOA                 Government of Australia
IIEC                International Institute of Energy Conservation
MEA                 Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOSTE               Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment
NEPC                National Energy Policy Council
NEPO                National Energy Policy Office
NIDA                National Institute of Development Administration
OECF                Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OEPP                Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
PEA                 Provincial Electricity Authority
PRIF                Preinvestment Facility of GEF
STAP                Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of GEF
TISI                Thailand Industrial Standards Institute
UNDP                United Nations Development Program



FOR OmCIL US ONLY
THAILAND
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grantee:            The Kingdom of Thailand
Cofinanciers:       (a) The Government of Australia (GOA) - joint financing
(b) Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan (OECP) -
parallel financing
Benefici-ryx~       Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
SDR6.9 million equivalent (US$9.5 million)
Terms:              Grant
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign     Total
- -US$ million -------
GET         5.5         4.0        9.5
GOA         2.0         4.0         6.0
OECF/g      2.5        22.5       25.0
Thailand  148.5         0.0      148.5
T~otaLl    158 5.05              189 0
IAL OECF loan is expected to be negotiated in June 1993.
Economic Rate       Not applicable
Of Return:






THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
1.         Background.   Thailand has  one of  the world's  fastest  growing
industrial economies.  Over the last three years, GDP growth has averaged 10l
per annum and the outlook continues to be one of robust economic expansion. In
order to assure an adequate level of electricity supply to sustain growth,
about 1,200 MW of new generating capacity will be required annually, doubling
installed capacity from 10,000 to 20,000 MW over the next eight years. To meet
this challenge, the Government's strategy calls for: (a) substantially
increasing power sector investments; (b) accelerating the pace of privatization
of the power supply industry; (c) making a strong thrust towards energy
conservation; and (d) emphasizing environmentally sound and sustainable
development. The Bank is assisting the Government in all four strategic areas
by: (a) conducting a sector study on fuel options; (b) conducting a study on
the privatization of several large state enterprises (including power
companies); (c) assisting in studies on major environmental issues; and (d)
financing investments in the power sector to improve supply-side efficiency and
demand-side efficiency (under the proposed project).
2.         In 1992, the Government revised its National Environmental Act. This
reorganized the Office of the National Environment Board (NEB), the lead
Government environmental agency, which was largely without regulatory and
enforcement authority.   The new NEB has been established as a cabinet-level
committee  chaired by  the Prime Minister.    With Bank assistance,  NEB  is
developing a National Environmental Action Plan, which is expected to be ready
in late 1993.   The new Act established three department-level organizations
that report directly to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Science,
Technology and the Environment (MOSTE). These are the Office of Environmental
Policy and Planning (OEPP), the Department of Pollution Control (DPC) and the
Department of Environmental Quality Promotion (DEQP).
3.         In a significant departure from the past, environmental action plans
will be developed and implemented at the provincial level through four regional
offices. Further, environmental impact assessments will be required on a wider
variety of projects and specific pollution control areas will be identified for
priority  action.    In addition,  non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  are
explicitly encouraged to participate in the planning and implementation of
environmental projects and an NGO coordination unit has been established to
facilitate effective involvement. The new legislation also states that point-
source emission control standards with mandatory compliance must be established
and these will be enforced by the OEPP.
4.         The Government has established an Environmental and Quality of Life
Development Fund (called the Fund) to finance programs and projects to protect
the environment proposed by private industry, local authorities, NGOs and
communities. The Fund has received an initial allocation of US$120 million and
will receive an additional US$25 -million annually through a tax levied on
natural gas and petroleum refinery products.



- 2 -
5          In 1991, the Government established a Technical Committee on the
Global Environment which prepared Thailand's National Report to the 1992 United
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development.    The  National  Report
concluded that combustion of fossil fuels for energy production was the
fastest-growing source of Thailand's global greenhouse gas emissions (power
sector CO2 emissions are expected to increase from the current level of 33% of
the country's total to a level of 43% in 2001).  By deferring or eliminating
the need to build fossil fuel-fired power plants, an aggressive demand-side
management (DSM) effort could reduce annual CO2 emissions from the power sector
in the year 2001 by about 13 percent. DSM was identified in the report as the
most cost-effective way to reduce these emissions.
6.         In 1992, the Government approved legislation establishing the Energy
Conservation Promotion Act, which increased the commitment and resources
necessary to implement a comprehensive energy efficiency program. The Act (a)
formalized the responsibilities of the Department of Energy Development and
Promotion (DEDP) as the lead implementation agency for energy conservation; (b)
gave DEDP the authority to issue voluntary building energy codes and appliance
efficiency  standards;  (c)  identified  a  class  of  large  energy  users  as
"controlled facilities" and required that they hire energy managers, conduct
energy studies and develop energy conservation plans, or face large financial
penalties; and (d) established the Energy Conservation Promotion Fund (ECF),
financed through taxes on refinery products. The ECF will fund energy
conservation, renewable energy and cogeneration projects as well as support
training, technical assistance, promotion, monitoring and evaluation, research
and demonstration, technology transfer, and related activities that improve
environmental conditions.
7.         The Government has established an Industrial  Process Efficiency
Program to be managed by DEDP and implemented by ECCT, with a budget of US$30
million and a savings potential of 30 MW and 220 GWh (per annum) by 1997.
8.         To  foster  electricity  conservation  through  appropriate  pricing
policies, the Government has restructured and increased electricity tariffs in
1991 so that the average tariffs for all consumer classes, except residential,
are practically equal to long-run marginal cost. Demand charges are levied for
all medium and large general service consumers, while time-of-use tariffs are
mandatory for large general service consumers and optional for those that are
small.
9.         While  the  Government  has  taken  measures  to  strengthen  the
environmental and energy conservation frameworks  in the country,  it lacks
experienced personnel to implement its programs. There appears to be no short-
term solution to this problem; instead the only option is to actively develop
and rely on the private sector to render services that require continuity of
performance. The proposed project provides for a substantial contracting of
energy management services from the private sector.
10.        Proiect Objectives.   The project has two major objectives:  (a) to
build sufficient institutional capability in the Thai electric power sector and
the energy-related private sector to deliver cost-effective energy services
throughout the economy; and (b) to pursue policies and actions that would lead
to the development, manufacture and adoption of energy efficient equipment and



-3-
processes within the country. The main GEF objective in funding the project is
to demonstrate on a large scale, and within a reasonable time frame, first, the
potential for electricity savings to replace substantial fossil fuel power
generation, thereby avoiding additional C02 (NO. and SO2) emissions; and second'
the capacity of the electric power sector and other relevant agencies, public
and private, to achieve those savings.   The broader, global objective is to
generate among utilities in other developing countries a similar commitment to
undertake large scale demand-side management programs.
11.        Project Description.    The proposed project, formulated with the
assistance of an advance from UNDP's Pre-Investment Facility (PRIF) of
US$595,000, comprises a five-year (1993-1997) Demand-Side Management Plan
(DSMP), with a budget of US$189 million (Schedule A, page 1), and a savings
target of 238 MW and 1,427 GWh (per annum) of electricity by the end of 1997.
The project has a four-pronged approach: (a) to provide user and manufacturer
incentives and consumer education to influence practices and attitudes towards
energy-efficient technologies; (b) to develop efficiency standards and testing
capabilities to exercise control and monitor efficiency improvements; (c) to
develop and promulgate building and appliance codes so as to enforce minimum
efficiency standards; and (d) to continue pursuing technological improvements
and their adaptation to Thai conditions.
12.        Specifically, the project would consist of the following elements:
(a) creating a Demand-Side Management Organization (DSMO) unit within EGAT to
implement DSM programs; (b) developing and implementing technological and
market intervention strategies in the residential, commercial and industrial
sectors; (c) developing financial mechanisms to assure the market adopts the
various energy efficiency programs; (d) promulgating codes and standards to
support efficient equipment; (e) establishing testing laboratories; (f)
developing  project  evaluation  and  monitoring  systems  and  protocols;  (g)
developing and training energy management companies and DSM program
contractors; (h) integrating supply-side and demand-side planning in the
electricity planning process; (i) developing a direct utility load control
program; and (j) undertaking special studies as needed.
13.         The residential sector program will include manufacturer incentives
to stimulate the production of energy efficient equipment, and customer
incentives to encourage its purchase.   For example, customers will be given
incentives to install compact fluorescent lamps, efficient fluorescent tubes,
and low-loss magnetic and electronic ballasts.   Also, manufacturers will be
provided incentives to produce efficient ballasts and tubes, refrigerators and
air conditioners. In the latter phase of the five-year program, manufacturer
incentives will be supplanted by standards and codes that will establish and
enforce minimum levels of efficiencies for equipment.
14.         In   the   commercial   sector,   commercial   and   governmental
establishments will be urged to retrofit/replace inefficient existing lighting
systems by offering free lighting audits and rebates.  Also, a program will
provide incentives for the design of energy efficient buildings along with



training for architects and engineers. It will also pay some portion of the
incremental cost of more energy-efficient systems for pilot programs. Finally,
it will phase out these incentives over time by developing and enforcing
building codes to establish maximum levels of building energy usage.
15.        For the industrial sector, the motor systems program will focus on
improving the efficiency of existing and new motor systems. It will provide
rebates to purchasers of new, more efficient motors and to those which replace
burned-out motors with high efficiency ones (instead of rewinding). Over time,
the program will provide free audits and incentives to encourage replacement.
In addition, various administrative mechanisms will be implemented such as
codes of practice and certification of motor rewinders and the reduction of
tariffs on the import of high efficiency motors and inverters. Improvement of
energy efficiency of industrial processes will be outside the purview of the
proposed DSM plan and will be pursued separately by the Energy Conservation
Center of Thailand (ECCT) under contract from DEDP (para. 8).
16.        The total financing required for the DSM program is estimated at
about US$189 million with a foreign exchange component of US$30.5 million. The
proposed GET grant of SDR 6.9 million (US$9.5 million) would finance.about 5%
of the total project and 31% of foreign expenditures. Retroactive financing of
up to US$1.0 million equivalent would be permitted for project expenditures
related to technical assistance and training incurred after December 16, 1992.
A breakdown of costs and the financing plan is shown in Schedule A. Amounts
and methods of procurement and disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are
shown in Schedule B.   Statement of Expenditures  (SOE) procedures will be
followed for disbursements and F Special Account will be established (see
paras. 84 and 85 of the Technical Annex for details). Schedule C, page 1 gives
the timetable of key project processing events.
17.        Project Implementation.  The overall project will be implemented by
the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) which is responsible
for the generation and transmission of electricity in Thailand. EGAT operates
as a bulk supplier of electricity, relying on the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority  (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority  (PEA)  for retail
distribution, except to a few large consumers. EGAT has the legal mandate and
authority to pursue all facets of DSM. MEA and PEA will take an active part in
implementing the residential DSM programs.  ECCT will 7oordinate with EGAT in
relevant  aspects  of  the  industrial  motor  systems  program.    DSM  program
implementation will be overseen by the DSM sub-committee comprised of EGAT,
MEA, PEA, NEPO, FPO, DEDP, ECCT, NIDA, and ERI. The DSM sub-committee will
assure coordination of DSM activities among the various organizations.
18.        Within EGAT, the recently established DSM Organization (DSMO) will
be responsible for the DSM program.   It will consist of five departments --
Planning and Evaluation, Energy Conservation Attitude Creation, Technology,
Program Delivery, and Accounting and Administration -- and expects to have a
staff of 40 by the end of 1993.   As the DSMO develops over the five year
project period, it should have expanded to 120 personnel.
19.        Consulting  activities  have  been  identified  to  assist  the  DSMO
establish a viable and aggressive set of DSM programs. Beginning in 1993, it
will employ a full-time expatriate consultant to help implement the project,
for no less than two years.   The areas  in which consultants will become



- 5 -
involved will include program design; establishing monitoring and evaluation
procedures, creating an Integrated Resource Planning (IRP) process and
acquiring the associated planning models, developing a customer and equipment
database, and assisting with sector-specific program marketing strategies. In
addition, an ongoing training program will be initiated that will cover the
major aspects of DSM. Thai consultants will provide support in consumer market
research and program implementation.
20.        To guide the project and provide for effective implementation, a
plan with milestones and major events has been prepared (Fig.7, Technical
Annex).
21.        Project Funding and Equity.   The Government has  authorized an
automatic tariff adjustment mechanism to cover DSM program expenses.   The
impact of the proposed DSM program on the tariff has been evaluated and the
tariff increase needed is less than 0.5Z, an amount unlikely to impose a burden
on electricity consumers. In fact, the set of DSM programs provides for equity
across all customer classes:   each sector -- residential,  commercial and
industrial -- will be offered DSM programs.
22.        Program  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  (PME).    The  project  would
emphasize monitoring and evaluation, define strategy to achieve it and provide
for adequate funding and institutional development to support the activity. A
section (PMES) with staff skills in economics, market research, social science
and engineering, would be instituted within the DSMO.   PMES staff would be
provided with on-the-job and task-specific training. The PMES would establish
data bases for each program and institute research programs to generate market
data  for program evaluation.    Further,  it will  contract  surveys  on  (a)
appliance saturation, (b) commercial buildings, (c) retail audits/floor
inventories, (d) customer satisfaction, and (e) utility image.   In preparing
the evaluation plans, data would be collected to establish conditions prior to
and after implementation of the programs.
23.        In  the  residential  sector,  PME would  be  directed  to  do  the
following: (a) with regard to new construction, - analysis of electricity use
in program and non-program homes, and market impact analysis through interviews
with builders and developers; and (b) with regard to existing stock, it would
evaluate the market impact through end-use load metering on a range of new and
existing refrigerators and air conditioners, perform retail audits to assess
changes in the market for those appliances, produce engineering estimates and
survey data to estimate impacts of lighting measures, and conduct an analysis
for audited homes after a sufficient level of participation in the program.
24.        In the commercial sector PME would do the following: (a) with regard
to new commercial and institutional programs, it would produce engineering
estimates  and  simulations   for  estimating  load  impacts,   and  analyze
institutional buildings that follow standardized design so as to compare them
to similar buildings that did not participate in the program; and (b) for
commercial retrofit programs it would create engineering estimates for load
impacts, and perform an annual billing analysis after sufficient level of
participation. In the industrial sector, PME would estimate load impacts using
engineering estimates and survey data, sample replaced equipment to assess
previous patterns of use and consumption, and test replaced motors to determine
actual consumption.



-6-
25.        Independent Program Monitoring and Evaluation (PME).  An amount of
US$0.5 million has been provided exclusively to fund independent monitoring and
evaluation to strengthen the PME effort.   For this purpose, an independent
agency (comprising expatriate experts assisted by Thai professionals) would be
contracted by the Government according to terms of reference set out in the
Technical Annex,  Section VI).   In addition,  the Bank supervision missions
(Schedule C, page 2) would assess the efficacy of the PME activities.
26.        Project Sustainability.  Project sustainability would be ensured as
it would: (a) adopt a comprehensive and integrated approach in program design;
(b) target a significant number of consumers and appropriate energy saving
technologies in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors; and (c)
obtain the policy commitment from Government.  Also, sustainability would be
promoted  through  DSM  capacity  building  in  Thailand's  three  utilities,
Government organizations, and the private sector.
27.        Rationale for GEF Involvement.   The DSM project is a component of
the Bank's proposed Distribution System and Energy Efficiency Project which
provides for the expansion of MEA's distribution system.  The DSM project, by
introducing demand-side management and promoting electricity energy efficiency
in the Thai power sector, contributes to the MEA project goals of more
efficient use of Thailand's energy resources.
28.        Although DSM programs are economic per se, they involve costs and
risks. These include the reluctance of manufacturers to move to more efficient
technologies, inadequate consumer responses, institutional weaknesses that take
undue efforts to overcome and technological failures which are difficult to
quantify, at least in the initial stages of the program. Without GEF support,
it is unlikely that the Government and power sector utilities would be willing
to absorb the costs and take the inherent risks.
29.        The proposed GEF project is also expected to have a significant
value for other developing countries in selected energy sub-sectors and end-
uses.   It would demonstrate the following:  (a) how power utilities and the
economy can benefit from investments made in electricity conservation on a
sufficiently large scale; (b) how institutional problems can be resolved and
the utilities can gear up to manage the program and sustain it in the future;
and (c) how major demand-management options can be optimally integrated with
supply-side options. The replicability of the program would be ensured through
a comprehensive monitoring, evaluation and reporting program.
30.        Agreed Actions.  Agreements reached under the project (see Section V
of Technical Annex for details) include: (a) creating and staffing the utility-
managed DSM organization (DSMO); (b) providing consultancy assistance, both
full-time and task-specific; (c) providing technical assistance and training,
both to utility staff and external organizations; (d) institutionalizing DSM
activity by introducing Integrated Resource Planning and Environmental Resource
Accounting, including acquiring suitable software packages; (e) setting up
laboratory and testing facilities and establishing equipment specifications;
(f) adopting building codes and national performance standards for DSM
measures; and (g) providing monitoring, evaluation and reporting support. The
Government has assured program funding by recovering DSM expenses through
automatic increases in the electricity tariff and by allowing industrial energy
conservation programs to draw from the Energy Conservation Fund.



31.        Conditions of Effectiveness.   Effectiveness of the proposed grant
will depend on the following: (a) execution of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement
by Government and EGAT; (b) fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for the Distribution System and Energy
Efficiency Project; and (c) fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of
the GOA Grant Agreement.
32.        Environmental  Aspects.      The  project  would  make  a  positive
contribution to the global environment by reducing the emission of green-house
gases by deferring or eliminating the need to build fossil fuel-fired power
plants.   The project does not pose any significant adverse environmental
impacts.   Although  the retrofitting programs would result in substantial
quantities of replaced material such as lighting fittings, ballasts, lamps and
motors, arrangements would be made for proper disposal and storage (prior to
disposal).  A spin-off from the project could be the creation of a recycling
facility for salvaged fluorescent tubes. While this is not provided under the
project, possibilities would be discussed during supervision.
33.        Project Benefits.  The main benefits of the proposed project would
be: (a) building institutional capability in the Thai electric power sector and
the energy-related private sector to deliver cost-effective energy services
throughout the economy; (b) developing manufacturing and adopting energy
efficient equipment and processes within the country; (c) demonstrating the
potential gain to utilities of other developing countries; and (d) reducing
emissions of greenhouse gases in a cost-effective manner.
34.        The fuel saved due to DSM is oil, the marginal fuel and detailed
simulations indicate' an annual saving (due to DSM savings of 1,427 GWh/annum)
of 436 million liters of oil in 1997. Simultaneously, it would result in 1.16
million tons less of CO2 emissions per year. The DSM plan would allow Thailand
to avoid generating 1,427 GWh of electricity and save about US$57 million per
annum, about US$49 for every ton of CO2 emissions avoided.
35.        Proiect Risks.   The project faces three main categories of risk:
institutional,  technological,  and market.   If the DSM organization is not
adequately staffed, the savings targets are at risk. However, the commitment
of EGAT and the DSM subcommittee will mitigate much of this risk. There is a
degree of technological risk in the lighting area, because of the high ambient
air temperatures  in Thailand.   Testing will be conducted to identify any
potential problems related to the higher temperatures. In addition, although
the lack of effective ope-ation and maintenance practices could result in the
degradation of equipment performance and efficiency, the project provides for
training and assistance in this area., Finally, the project risks some lack of
interest in the DSM programs. If the market does not respond to the incentives
offered, the savings' targets may not be achieved. To mitigate this, program
incentives will be tailored to meet individual customers' needs.
36.        In addition to financial incentives to overcome market barriers, the
programs include design features that address other significant barriers: (a)
marketing to increase public awareness; (b) training to increase professional



expertise; (c) technical assistance to facilitate customer participation; and
(d)  steps to assure quality control.   By working with international  DSM
professionals, it would be possible to adapt international experience to the
Thai situation.   By monitoring and evaluation on an on-going basis, timely
adjustments could be made to improve program performance.
Attachments
Washington, D.C
April 7, 1993



-9-
Schedule 
Page 1 of 2
THAND
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financint Plan
(US$ million)
Estimated cost:
Local      Forein        Total
---------(US$ million)-------
Project Implementation
Residential Sector
Lighting /A                      61.1        4.4           65.5
Air conditioning                  2.3        0.5            2.8
Refrigerators                     5.2        0.5            5.7
Commercial Sector
LightinS,                         25.0        2.9           27.9
Buildiags                          9.3        1.9           11.2
Industrial Sector
Motor Systems                     15.0        2.8           17.8
Lighting                           1.0        0.0            1.0
Laboratory, Testing and
Monitoring Equipment                       0.5       3.5            4.0
Consulting Services                            1.0       3.0            4.0
Training                                       2.0       3.0            5.0
Public Relations                               8.0       1.0            9.0
DSM Administration
Salaries                                  10.5       0.0           10.5
Office                                     1.5       0.0            1.5
Computer Systems                           0.0       2.0            2.0
Vehicles                                   0.0       1.0            1.0
Program Monitoring and Evaluation
By DSHO                                    6.1       2.0            8.1
By Independent Consultants                 0.0       0.5            0.5
Contingencies (overall)                       10.0       1.5           11.5
Totl158.5  35189.0
/a Includes lighting for small commercial establishments



-10-
Pag 2 of 2
fumriing PlAn:
Local      Foreign      Total
--------  US$ *illion -------
GET                       5.5         4.0         9.5
GOA                       2.0         4.0         6.0
OECF/A                    2.5        22.5        25.0
Thailand                148.5         0.0       148.5
Total                   158 5        30 5       189f0
/a OICF loan is expected to be negotiated in June 1993.



- 11 -
Schedule X
Page 1 of 2
*                                 ~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Summary of ProDosed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Component               ICB      LCB       Others/A       N.G.F./h  Total           V
Goods                    3.0      4.0         1.0           87.4      95.4
(2.0)    (2.5)      (0.5)                     (5.0)
Incentives               0.0      0.0         0.0           29.3      29.3
Services including
Marketing, Eng'g/       0.0       7.0        1.0           29.3      37.3
Architectural Design             (4.5)      (0.5)                     (5.0)
Installation, Testing,
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Consultancies            0.0      0.0         6.0            6.5      12.5
including Technical                         (5.5)                    (5.5)
Assistance and
Training
DSMO Admin. Expenses    0.0       0.0         0.0           14.5      14.5
Total                   31.0      US s118                  167.0     189.0
(2.0)    (7.0)      (6.5)          (0.0)    (15.5)
Figures in parenthesis refer to joint financing from the GET and GOA funds.
/a Refers to procurement through local and international shopping, limited
international bidding and procurement of consultancies including technical
assistance and training.
/k Refers to items not financed by the GET and GOA funds.



- 12 -
ScheduleB
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENTS
Amount of the Grant Allocated                X of
Category             GEF         Australian Govt        Expenditures to be
(SDR Equiv.)     (A$ Equiv.)               Financed
Goods                 1,850,000          2,800,000          100l    of   foreign
expenditures, 1001
o f    1 o c a 1
expenditures   (ex-
factory  cost)  and
701    of    local
expenditures    for
other    items
procured locally.
Services including    1,950,000           2,300,000          70X
Marketing, Eng'g/
Architectural Design,
Installation, Testing,
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Consultancies          2,250,000          2,800,000          100l
including Technical
Assistance and
Training
Unallocated              850.000            600.000
TOTAL                              8.SOO.000
Estimated Disbursements (GET and GOA Grants):
Bank FY                       94      21        96        72         21
-------------- (in US$ million)----------
Annual                        3.5      4.0      4.0       3.0         1.0
Cumulative                    3.5      7.5     11.5      14.5       15.5



- 13 -
Schedule C
Page 1 of 2
TMAILAND
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:              16 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                    EGAT and IIEC (under a
UNDP funded PRIF study)
(c)   First Bank mission:                             October 1991
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                    December 1992
(e)   Negotiations:                                   March 1993
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                  August 1993
(g)   Relevant PCRs:                                  Nil
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in
December 1992, comprising Darayes Mehta (Task Manager), Kenneth Jensen
(Consultant), Mostafa El-Erian (LEGEA) and Leigh Peterson (Consultant). The
Peer Reviewers were John Irving and Jamil Sopher (EAIIE). The Project was
cleared by Callisto Madavo, Director (EAlDR) and Vineet Nayyar, Chief
(EAIIE).



- 14 -
ScheduleC
Page 2 of 2
THAILAND
PROMOTION OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Bank Staff Inputs for Project SuRervision to 1995
Approximate        Activity                        Anticipated          Input in
Date                                               Skill                Staff
Requirements           Weeks
10/93       Supervision Mission
Review staffing arrangements           Engineer                 2
and office set up                      DSM Expert               2
Review consulting TOR
Review training TOR
Review reporting arrangements
Review lab and testing proposals
Review procurement procedures
01/94        Supervision Mission
Review project implementation          Engineer                 2
Review commercial, industrial          DSM Expert               2
and residential programs
Review procurement progress
Review ECCT's programs
Review evaluation protocols
Review program for special studies
4/94-03/95  Three Supervision Missions              Engineer                 3
DSM Expert               6
6/95        Mission Mid-term Review
Review project implementation          Engineer                 2
in terms of project objectives         DSM Expert               4
Review program impacts
Review consulting and training
Review corrective measures
Review promulgation of codes and
standards
Review effectiveness of cataloging
Review progress on IRP
Conduct independent evaluation
Review performance of lab testing and
certification/labeling



TECHNICAL ANNEX
DSM PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS, IMPLEMENTATION
ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT BENEFITS






- i -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.   Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.   Scope of the DSM Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C.   Overview of Electricity Consumption Patterns  . . . . . . . .  3
D.   Sectoral DSM Programs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
II.  PROJECT COST ESTIMATES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.   The DSMO Organization (DSMO) and Staffing   . . . . . . . . . 11
B.   Equipment Testing and Building Codes  . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
C.   Project Financing Mechanism   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
D.   Other Supporting Activities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
E.   Technical Assistance and Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
F.   Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
H.   Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Program Cost Effectiveness ................ . 25
B.   Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
C.   Project Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
VI.  TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INDEPENDENT PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.   Background and Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
B.   IMEA Budget, Role and Work Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
C.   Scope   of  Work  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
VII. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT - BRIEF DESCRIPTION
A.   Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
B.   Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
C.   Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
D.   Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
E.   Environmental Aspects . .................. . 35



- il -
TABLES AND FIGURES
TABLE 1   Electricity Use and Major Characteristics of Sectors
TABLE 2   Distribution of Electricity Consumption by Sector and End Use
TABLE 3   Demand Side Management Savings Targets
TABLE 4   Estimated Aggregate Program for High-Efficiency Motors and
Variable Speed Drives
TABLE 5   Commercial and Government Buildings Program: Program Targets
and Energy and Demand Savings
TABLE 6   Typical Refrigerator Design Improvement Options: Residential
Sector
TABLE 7   Typical Air Conditioning Design Improvement Options:
Residential Sector
TABLE 8   Summary of Lighting Program
TABLE 9   Cost Effectiveness Screening Calculations
TABLE 10  Summary of Benefits of Five-Year DSM Program, 1993-97
TABLE 11 Categorization of Procurement Items
FIGURE 1 Energy and Peak Capacity Savings by Sector
FIGURE 2 Industrial Program Schematic
FIGURE 3 Commercial Sector Prototypical Building Analysis
FIGURE 4 Thailand Energy Institutions
FIGURE 5 Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT),
Organizational Structure and Location of DSM Organization
FIGURE 6 DSM Organization Structure
FIGURE 7 Implementation Schedule



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 1 of 53
DSM PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS, IMPLEMENTATION
ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT BENEFITS
I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Proiect Background.
1.    Historically, energy efficiency has been the focus of many studies and
policy initiatives in Thailand.   In 1990, the National Energy Administration
(NEA) completed an initial study of the potential for electricity savings in
Thailand.   The potential savings were categorized into a range of payback
periods, with longer payback periods corresponding to higher per kW costs of
realizing the savings.   About 600 MW of electricity efficiency savings were
identified at an average cost of about US$240/kW. This compared very favorably
with the investment requirement in Thailand of about US$1,250/kW for generation
and transmission and about US$550/kW for distribution.
2.    A 1990 analysis by the International Institute of Energy Conservation
(IIEC) indicated the potential for demand-side management (DSM) to reduce
EGAT's peak demand by 2,000 MW by the year 2000.   A subsequent analysis
performed by Monenco Consultants and BC Hydro for the National Energy Policy
Office in 1991 estimated a DSM potential of 2,000 to 3,000 peak MW over the
next decade. The Monenco/BC Hydro study recommended that a utility-funded and
utility-managed DSM program be initiated immediately.
3.    Based on these analyses,  IIEC assisted the Government  to prepare a
comprehensive DSM plan which the Government approved in November 1991. The DSM
plan outlined a strategy for acquiring 225 MW of capacity and 1,080 GWh (per
annum) of energy at an average cost one-third to one-half the cost of new
energy generation.   The cost of the five-year effort was estimated at US$183
million.
4.    In recognition of the unique potential of the Thai DSM effort to serve as
a model for such conservation efforts in other developing countries, and the
potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Bank proposed a project for
assistance by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in an amount of US$15
million in grant funds. The Australian Government (GOA) expressed interest to
provide a grant of US$6 million (thereby reducing the GET core funding to US$9
million) and the Japanese Government proposed concessional funding of US$25
million through OECF to support the GEF Project.
5.    At the Bank's  instance,  a detailed pre-investment  feasibility  study
funded by the UNDP through the PRIF, was carried out by IIEC from August
through October 1992, employing a multi-disciplinary team of consultants. The
draft report of the study was discussed among the Bank, the Thai Government,
the DSMO and associated organizations and IIEC during appraisal of the project
in December 1992 (in which OECF, GOA and UNDP representatives also
participated). Major changes were agreed to in terms of the relative sizes of
the DSM programs for the various sectors, although the overall savings target



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 2 of 53
and budget and the GEF focus were maintained.  The final report of the PRIF
study will be the reference document for the project.
B. Scope of the DSM Proiect.
6.    The proposed project comprises a five-year (1993 - 1997) Demand- Side
Management  Plan  (DSMP).    In  its  five-year  DSM  effort,  Thailand  will
"purchase", through paying incentives for the production and/or installation of
energy efficient technologies, energy savings of approximately 1,427 GWh hours
annually by the end of 1997. Capacity savings will total approximately 238 MW.
The total project cost is estimated at U.S.$189 million. This is exclusive of
the Industrial Process Efficiency Program (to be undertaken by DEDP through
ECCT) with a budget of US$22 million and having a savings potential of 30 MW
and 220 GWh (per annum).
7.    The project has a four-pronged approach:  (a) provision of user and
manufacturer incentives and consumer education to influence practices and
attitudes toward energy-efficient technologies; (b) development of efficiency
standards and testing capabilities to exercise control over and monitor
efficiency improvements; (c) development and promulgation of building and
appliance codes to allow enforcement of minimum efficiency standards; and (d)
continued pursuit of technological improvements and their adaptation to Thai
conditions.
8.    Specifically, the project would consist of the following elements:
(a)   Creation of an organizational unit within EGAT (DSMO) to plan, develop
and implement a broad menu of DSM programs across all sectors, along with
providing for the required staff training and capability building;
(b)   Development and implementation of technological and market intervention
strategies in the Residential, Commercial and Industrial sectors of the
economy;
(c)   Development of funding and financial mechanisms to assure market adoption
of the various energy efficiency programs;
(d)   Development and promulgation of necessary Codes and Standards to support
higher levels of equipment efficiency in all sectors;
(e)   Establishment of Testing Laboratories and the associated processes of
equipment testing and rating;
(f)   Development  of  Project  Evaluation  and Monitoring  Systems  including
sector-specific Evaluation and Monitoring protocols;
(g)   Development and training of Energy Service Companies and DSM Program
Contractors in the public and private sectors;
(h)   Integration of Supply-side and Demand-side planning and incorporation of
environmental externalities in the electricity planning process;
(i)   Development of a Direct Utility Load Control Program; and
(j)   Undertaking Special Studies as needed to maintain cognizance of emerging
technologies with relevance to the Thailand environment.
9.    The  DSM program will be  supported by  the  following  activities:(a)
development of an enhanced power system planning model, including an integrated
resource planning process; (b) development of an environmental accounting
system; (c) improving existing electricity forecasting models; (d) structuring



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 3 of 53
a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation process that would include design
of: (i) a customer and equipment database; (ii) a monitoring system to report
on progress towards meeting programmatic goals; and (iii) evaluation procedures
to enable periodic review of program implementation and the energy and peak
impacts of specific programs; (e) creation of a multi sector public relations
and marketing effort to move energy markets towards more efficient equipment;
and (f) establishment of testing facilities for energy equipment to enable DSMO
and industry participants to determine equipment performance and formulate
standards.
C. Overview of Electricity Consumption Patterns.
10.   The economy of Thailand is one of the most rapidly growing economies in
Southeast Asia. Thailand must meet its development needs with an electric power
system that provides an adequate supply of affordable energy that minimizes
damage to the local and global environment. This project provides for a
comprehensive set of energy conservation programs to be implemented in Thailand
over the next five years. These programs, if successfully implemented, can
delay the need for, or take the place of, new power plants.
11.   To place the goals of the five-year DSMP in perspective, Tables 1 and 2
provide characterizations of electricity use patterns in Thailand, both in
terms of important sector components and important electricity end uses. The
disaggregation of electricity usage within the various sectors, displayed in
these tables, provides the starting point for determining the technical
potential for DSM efforts and, in turn, for defining the targets of opportunity
that provide the basis for the energy efficiency programs scheduled for
implementation.   These two tables build upon the information developed in a
major energy assessment project in 1987, the latest time period for which
detailed information is available. The Industrial sector accounts for 46X of
total electricity use,  with the textile  industry and the food processing
sectors each accounting for around 20% of industrial consumption. On an end use
basis, 80% of the electricity sale in this sector is consumed by motor and
motor drives used in various industrial applications.
12.   In the Commercial sector, the 7,200 buildings categorized as Large (the
building category with individual buildings having a 30 kW or greater demand)
account for 62% of total electrical consumption; the 199,000 structures,
considered Small for the purposes of classifying electricity usage, in total
only consume 38%.  On an end use basis, electrical use for air conditioning
systems  represent  46%,  followed  by  31%  for  lighting  systems.    In  the
Residential sector, which accounts for 21% of total electricity use, 66% of
usage is accounted for in urban area housing. On a residential end use basis,
21% of electrical energy is consumed by both lights and refrigerators and 24X
for heating and cooking. While only 6% of residential energy use is accounted
for by air conditioning, it represents the fastest growing category of
residential use.
D. Sectoral DSM Programs.
13.   The examination of areas of large potential electricity savings and an
analysis of the portion of these savings that could be achieved cost-



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 4 of 53
effectively yielded eight DSM programs (seven administered by the DSMO and one
administered and separately funded by DEDP) to serve as the core energy -
saving activities over the next five - year period. These programs will work
to improve the efficiency of electricity use in all customer sectors and in
major electricity end-uses. Table 3 and Fig. 1 display the savings expressed in
GWh p.a. and MW, anticipated to be forthcoming from these energy efficiency
programs by the end of 1997.
Industrial Sector Programs
14.   The industrial sector has the largest potential for electricity savings
in the long term.  Although there is significant energy savings potential in
Thai industry, there has been little investment in energy efficiency on the
part of factory owners.   For example, while approximately 80% of industrial
electricity is consumed by motors, energy-efficient motors account for only 5%
of all new motors sold in Thailand. Motors larger than 20 horse power (about
88,000 in all) account for 86 percent of motor energy use. The largest size
motor manufactured in Thailand is 75 horsepower.
15.   Two industrial sector programs are planned for implementation: (a) Motor
Systems Program; and (b) Process Efficiency Program. The latter is outside the
purview of the proposed project.  The DSMO of EGAT will assume responsibility
for the Motor Systems program, while DEDP, with a broader governmental mandate
for all energy sources will administer the Process Efficiency component. It is
estimated that the Motor Systems component would save 225 annual Gwh and 30
peak MW, while the Process Efficiency component would save 220 annual Gwh and
30 peak MW by 1997. Fig. 2 illustrates the overall Industrial sector program
design.
16.   The Motor Systems Program will focus on increasing the market penetration
of efficient motor systems (motors and variable speed drives).   It will be
offered to existing and new customers.   The marketing efforts will focus on
influencing the purchase of new motors. This strategy has been chosen because
Thai industrial production is expected to double in the next ten years and
because of the low cost of designing high-efficiency motor systems before the
equipment is installed in a new facility.
17.   The Motor Systems Program will target two groups of industrial customers:
(a) those that have burned-out motors that would normally be rewound; and (b)
those who are about to purchase new motors. As motors fail, they are rewound
and reconditioned.   The rewinding process usually results  in lower motor
efficiencies. The current motor rewind practices can be made more efficient by
offering  training to rewind companies.   More  significant  improvements  in
efficiency can be obtained if customers are encouraged to purchase high-
efficiency motors instead of rewinding older motors. Additional savings can be
achieved through the use of motor invertor drives (variable speed drives).
18.   The program will specifically target businesses using large motors.  The
use of high-efficiency motors will be promoted among this group through
education campaigns as well as financial incentives. The incentives will be up
to the full incremental cost when purchasing a new motor, and up to about 50
percent of the incremental cost when a customer decides to purchase a high-
efficiency motor  to replace a motor  that would have been rewound.    The



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 5 of 53
in)centives will be offered for both invertors and motors. The incentives will
be calculated based on the energy savings of each individual installation. In
addition, motor distributors and vendors will receive a nominal cash incentive
for each high-efficiency motor sale to encourage their active participation in
the program marketing effort.
19.   The DSMO will decide on minimum efficiency levels and testing procedures
for motors to qualify for financial incentives.   All motor manufacturers or
suppliers whose motors qualify for the incentives will be required to submit a
sample of each motor for testing in a laboratory approved by DSMO. For motors
that are rewound the DSMO will work with the motor rewinders to educate them on
efficient motor rewind techniques.   A certification of quality rewind shops
will be made to encourage better rewind practices.
20.   As high efficiency motors begin to gain market share DSMO will work with
various government agencies to help adopt minimum motor efficiency standards
and efficiency labeling requirements.   The ultimate goal is to achieve the
adoption of specific high efficiency standards by the end of the five year
period.
21.   The DSMO will work closely with various outside organizations to insure
that the best knowledge and experience is available  in the project.   In
particular, DSMO will establish a close relationship with DEDP and its likely
audit contractor, the Energy Conservation Center of Thailand (ECCT), to ensure
coordination between the Motor Systems program and the Process Efficiency
Program.   The DSMO will also establish an industrial DSM advisory group and
will develop a list of technical consultants for major industries in Thailand.
22.   The industrial programs will be most effectively promoted through contact
with both high-level managers and technical staff of industrial facilities.
This approach will insure that the DSMO is working with both sides of the
decision process.   The program will also strive to complete a few pilot
projects as soon as possible. These projects will then be used as case studies
and examples of successful DSM projects. The Motor Systems Program staff will
need to work directly with motor suppliers in order to successfully promote
this program. Table 4 summarizes the major features of the Industrial Motors
Systems Program.
23.   Impact and process evaluations are critical to the long-term success of
the program and are thus an integral part of the program effort.   These
evaluations will verify the initial savings estimates and permit improvements
in the methods of marketing the program.   The evaluation research and data
collection activities will be continuous, with annual reporting requirements.
This report will compare program achievements to the targets and results will
be verified by an evaluation specialist independent of the program.
Commercial and Government Sector Programs
24.   Two programs are slated for implementation in the Commercial sector.  The
first, a Commercial Lighting Retrofit Program, will target existing commercial
structures to capture savings from lighting enhancements, the most cost-
effective end use for improvements in the existing commercial buildings.  The
second program will focus on new buildings to begin the process of building



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 6 of 53
into new design,  energy efficiencies  prior  to construction.    Initially,
improved design will be achieved through incentives to architects and engineers
for energy-efficient design and later through building code strengthening.
Commercial Lighting Retrofit Programs
25.   Commercial customers (including Government buildings) account for about
28X of total electricity sales.   Lighting energy use  in commercial  and
government buildings accounts for an average of 40X of building electricity
use. Thus, over lOX of EGAT's generated electricity is dedicated to commercial
lighting.   New high efficiency lamps and ballasts developed in the last 15
years make it possible potentially to save 40X of the lighting electricity
costs or 4X of EGAT's total generation capacity.
26.   Lighting practices in the commercial and Government sectors in Thailand
are dominated by the use of 40 watt fluorescent tubes and standard magnetic
ballasts. Most of this equipment is manufactured in Thailand. Although most
of the manufacturers are aware of high efficiency equipment, few are prepared
to make the required investment due to lack of demand for the product.
Customers buy lighting based wholly on first cost. The only efficient lighting
equipment that has made a significant impact on the lighting market (36 Watt
lamp) is priced at the same level as standard equipment.
27.   The Commercial Lighting Retrofit Program will focus on improving the
efficiency of fluorescent straight-tube equipment. The program is built around
a lighting retrofit program that encourages customers to change out old lamps
and ballasts and replace them with higher efficiency lighting equipment.
During the initial phases, the lighting program will concentrate on encouraging
the use of low-loss magnetic ballasts, and 36 Watt high efficiency lamps.
28.   The program will have two components - a ballast manufacturer incentive
and a customer lighting retrofit program. The ballast manufacturer incentive
will be used to encourage high efficiency ballast to enter the market over
time. Currently high efficiency electronic ballasts are not widely available
in Thailand.   A manufacture incentive also has the advantage of reducing
program administration costs.   Incentive will be offered to importers or
manufacturers who produce low-loss magnetic or electronic ballasts.   These
incentives will be phased out after a significant portion of the manufacturing
capacity has shifted toward the production of high-efficiency ballasts.
29.   The Commercial Lighting Retrofit Program will also have  a customer
retrofit component. This program will encourage customers to retrofit existing
lighting systems by offering lighting audits and financial incentives that will
be a set amount for each lamp and ballast purchased.   In order to get the
maximum savings, the program will be marketed aggressively toward the largest
commercial and government customers. Initially, lighting systems used on peak
will be replaced. As the program matures in the later years and more efficient
technologies become more generally available, the program will offer
appropriate incentives for the 32 Watt lamp with an electronic ballast which
provides savings of the order of 40%.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 7 of 53
Nev Commercial and Government Buildings Program
30.   The addition of new office space in Bangkok has been running at rates
exceeding 50% annually for the past several years.  Construction permit data
show commercial floor space construction increased 47% from 1987 to 1988 (5.7
million square meters permitted in 1988) and increased again by 75% from 1988
to 1989 (9.99 million square meters permitted in 1989). While this rate of new
additions is expected to slow during the next three to four years, as many
current projects are completed, the market demand for commercial office space
will continue at a strong pace.
31.   In the near term and without the benefit of DSH programs, electricity use
in large buildings is expected to grow about 12 percent annually.  While the
growth rate is expected to decline to about 6 percent during 1996 to 2000, and
further decline to about 5 percent in the period 2000 to 2006, most of the
growth in energy consumption will come from the addition of new floor space in
office buildings, retail buildings, and hotels.  Thus, there is a compelling
need for an aggressive new buildings program.
32.   The New Commercial  and Government Buildings  Program  is designed to
acquire cost-effective energy and capacity savings through energy efficiency
improvements in new commercial and institutional buildings. The program will
provide the architectural and engineering community with "hands on" experience
in the design, evaluation and construction of energy-efficient buildings,
upgrading current practice to reflect increasingly energy-efficient building
design.
33.   The primary goal of the program is to incorporate energy efficient
technologies and practices in the building cycle. The program will start with
building design and continue through construction and operation and maintenance
of the buildings. The first-year target is approximately 20 buildings, scaling
up to a total of approximately 200-300 buildings over the five-year program
period. The goal of the program will be to achieve cumulative energy savings
of 140 annual Gwh and cumulative demand savings of 20 peak MW.
34.   To  guide  program  development  and  focus,  prototype  buildings  were
developed using a building energy simulation model. Fig. 3 displays the energy
profiles for a large office building prototype and for a large retail building.
Data for characterizing the prototypes were based on previously existing and
newly  collected  data  from building  audits  in Bangkok.    For  the  office
prototype, lighting consumes 46%, cooling and air transport use 41%, and office
equipment and elevators use 13% of the total electricity.   In the retail
prototype building, energy use for lighting is an even larger share at 63%,
followed by cooling and air transport at 28%, and the remaining 9% shared
between escalators and miscellaneous uses.
35.   Thus, lighting measures offer the greatest potential savings in both of
these types of large buildings due to the large share of lighting in total end-
use electricity consumption.   Technical potential  for electricity savings
compared to a baseline level of consumption range from 22% to 34% in offices,
and 37% to 49% in retail buildings.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 8 of 53
36.   The  New  Commercial  Buildings  Program  will  provide  architects  and
engineers with design assistance services that will help to plan buildings and
systems intended to exceed DEDP's proposed energy code for new buildings.
Energy efficiency improvements include equipment specifications as well as
architectural features that improve the energy performance of buildings. The
New Commercial and Government Building Program outlines a set of energy
conservation  measures  (ECHs)  to  be  incorporated  into  the  design  and
construction of new buildings. These ECMs fall into three categories: envelope
measures, lighting measures and ventilation and air conditioning measures.
37.   For new buildings sized 10,000 square meters and smaller, and in any
phase of design or construction, a standard efficiency upgrade approach will be
used. The building owner or designer will select simple upgrades to components
included in the existing building design from the list of energy conservation
measures.  When design of food stores or buildings larger than 10,000 square
meters is at the preliminary phase, a comprehensive approach will be used.
38.   To  remove  initial cost barriers  from the builder energy investment
decision-making, the DSMO will pay design incentives to encourage architects
and engineers to improve building energy performance.   The design incentives
will be partly in the form of a design fee and partly in the form of an
incentive designed to reward architects and engineers for achieving higher
energy savings.   In addition to receiving financial incentives, designers of
the most energy-efficient buildings may be given special recognition through
awards at professional association meetings. In the final period of the five-
year DSMP, it is assumed that building codes will be in place to provide
maximum energy budgets (measured in terms of a certain energy level per square
meter) that cannot be exceeded in the design of major buildings.
39.   Table 5 summarizes the major features of the Commercial and Government
Buildings  Program.    As  with  the  other  programs  to  be  implemented,  a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation element will be put in place to assure
its long term success and provide for fine-tuning as conditions change. These
evaluations will verify initial savings estimates and permit improvements to
program design.
Residential Sector Programs
40.   Overall, two types of incentive programs are planned for the residential
sector: manufacturers' incentives and consumers' incentives. Manufacturers'
incentives have the benefits of less paper work and administrative costs. They
also have the potential, if properly executed, to shift a whole market toward
the manufacture of efficient products. However, consumers' incentive programs
remain a critical part of a residential DSM effort because of the multiple
benefits they provide the utility with: a direct contact with the customer and
a means of collecting information on the housing stock and appliance ownership;
a way to educate occupants about energy use and offer direct installation of
energy-efficient measures; and an opportunity for the utility to encourage
consumers to purchase the efficient products that are being produced as a
result of manufacturer incentives.
41.   Initially,  the DSMO will focus on getting the manufacturer incentive
programs up and running. The start-up of these programs will be complex, since



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 9 of 53
it will involve the coordination and start-up of an appliance testing program,
development of product specifications, and intensive negotiations with
manufacturers.   For  these  reasons,  the planning  of consumers'  incentive
programs will not begin until the third quarter of 1993, after the groundwork
for the manufacturers' incentive programs has been well established.
42.   The  manufacturers'  and  consumers'  incentives  programs  will  yield
important benefits - 27 MW and 22 MW respectively for the refrigerator and air
conditioner programs, after five years. These programs assume that mandatory
appliance standards will take effect in 1995 and that incentives will shift the
majority of production to efficient equipment before that time.  The savings
for the lighting program is on the order of 95MW by the end of the five-year
DSMP.
Manufacturer Incentives Programs
43.   The objective of these programs will be to transform the market so that
high-efficiency refrigerators  and air conditioners are the typical market
offering in five years.   To have a significant  impact on the generating
capacity needs in Thailand, a program  needs to have an impact on most of the
refrigerators and air conditioners sold in Thailand, not just a few. In order
to affect most appliance sales, the market must be transformed so that
manufacturers  exclusively,  or at least primarily,  produce high efficiency
models.
44.   Manufacturer's  incentives  will  be  provided  to  manufacturers  of
refrigerators and air conditioners if their products meet or exceed efficiency
requirements  set by  the  DSMO.    Although  the  incentive  is paid  to  the
manufacturer, the consumers benefit from the energy savings after they purchase
the efficient products.
45.    A testing and labelling effort would be in place before the DSMO begins
an incentives program for efficient refrigerators and air conditioners.
Testing is the foundation for labeling, incentives, and standards. Without an
objective basis upon which to compare models, the other program options would
not be feasible.
Refrigerators
46.   Refrigerators are one of the largest residential end uses of electricity:
they account for 20X of home electric bills in Bangkok and more than 302 of
electric bills in homes outside of the Bangkok region. Sales of refrigerators
are  growing by more  than  20% per  year.    The  efficiency  of most  Thai
refrigerators can be improved substantially by improving the compressor and
increasing the thickness of the cabinet insulation. One Thai manufacturer has
already developed a prototype that uses 25% less electricity and will retail
for about 10Z more than a standard model. A standard Thai refrigerator sold
today is about 6 cubic feet, sells for $200, and uses about 490 Kwh/p.a. By
increasing the insulation and downsizing the compressor, the energy use can be
reduced to just over 300 Kwh p.a. at an added manufacturing cost of less than
$10. Table 6 indicates the types of improvements in refrigerator components
that are proposed in this program.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 10 of 53
Air Conditioners
47.   Air conditioners are the largest and fastest-growing use of electricity
in the Bangkok region.  They also are a major contributor to the system-wide
peak demand. The potential for reducing energy use of Thai air conditioners is
quite large.   The average Thai split-system air conditioner has an energy
efficiency ratio  (EER) of about 7.4.   Most manufacturers  are capable of
producing units with an EER greater than 10 at a small incremental cost. The
DSMO will initiate a program to offer incentives to manufacturers to produce
air conditioners with an EER greater than 10.2. Although the incentives would
be offered directly to the manufacturer, consumers would benefit from large
reductions  in their electricity bills.   Table  7 indicates  the types of
improvements in air conditioners that are proposed in the Residential sector
program.
Residential Consumer Incentive Mechanisms
48.   The most ambitious program envisioned for the initial DSM effort will
focus on the residential sector; specifically, emphasis will be placed on a
comprehensive program to rapidly move the residential customer away from the
use of incandescent light bulbs and 40 Watt fluorescent tubes with inefficient
ballasts to efficient lighting systems.   The current plan is to develop a
national  consciousness  regarding  conservation  through  a  comprehensive
advertising and promotional campaign.   The campaign will focus on lighting
replacement on a significant scale - an estimated eleven million tubes and
incandescents will be replaced over an initial three year period.   It will
achieve  several benefits:    (a)  immediate  and significant  energy  savings
benefit; and (b) a general movement of both consumers and manufacturers toward
efficient lighting systems.
49.   Two types of consumer incentive programs will be offered.  One will
provide direct installation of efficient lighting equipment in -PEA and MEA
dwellings. The equipment to be installed includes both compact fluorescent
lamps and 36 Watt fluorescent tubes and efficient magnetic ballasts for
replacement of straight-tube fluorescents. The second program will be targeted
at builders and owners in new construction; it will provide incentives to
install efficient lighting, and, to a much lesser degree, appliances.
50.   The consumer incentive programs will have two features:
(a) Financial incentives for efficient lighting
(b) Energy education
51.   Initially, replacement of lamps in locations in residences where they are
used during peak periods (an estimated average of two per residence) will be
covered by the program.   Compact fluorescent lamps and 36 Watt tubes used
during EGAT's peak period will be provided to homeowners at subsidized cost.
Homeowners will also have the option of receiving low-loss magnetic ballasts to
replace existing high-loss ballasts. A separate manufacture incentive will be
targeted toward local production of low-loss ballasts, compared to standard
magnetic ballasts.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 11 of 53
52.   In addition, a broad-scale consumer marketing activity will be initiated.
Easy-to-understand energy education topics will be offered to all residents.
Education will be available in a variety of forms and will include information
about the energy-saving benefits of the refrigerator and air conditioner
programs. Consumers who are planning to purchase lights will be notified that
they can purchase high-efficiency units available in the marketplace at little
or no extra cost.  Provisions will be made in the preliminary program design
for assuring appropriate installation of tubes and efficient ballasts and the
safe disposal of the replaced lights. Table 8 summarizes the major features of
the Residential, Commercial and Industrial Lighting DSM programs.
53.   Process  and  impact  evaluation of  the residential  programs will  be
critical.   Parallel to the implementation of the program,  a comprehensive
evaluation element will be designed that will permit continuous monitoring and
assessment of the program success.
II. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
54.   The total  project cost is US$189 million (refer Schedule A of the MOD).
The categorization of procurement items is given in Table 11. Foreign versus
local cost components are difficult to categorize within a DSM project because
the exact mix of items will depend on program implementation.   The mix of
imported, locally assembled, or locally manufactured items is driven by
consumer acceptance of various levels of incentives, perceived product
attributes and program operation efficacy. A large percentage of the technical
items to be purchased for installation will be purchased locally, though items
like electronic ballasts, and high efficiency motors will, at least initially,
be imported. The laboratory test equipment and computer hardware and software
will be a foreign cost, as will nearly all of the consultant costs. Training
costs have a significant local component since computer, market research, and
engineering training are readily available. Training on evaluation and program
design techniques is primarily available from foreign sources.
55.   Since the exact proportions are highly dependent on the experience of
program operation, the estimates provide a reasonable, though not accurate,
expectation of these two cost components. Local costs are estimated to total
US$158.5 million. The balance of the project, US$30.5 million will be foreign
costs.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. The Demand-Side Management Organization (DSMO) and Staffing.
56.   Implementation of the project will primarily be the responsibility of the
Electricity Generation Authority of Thailand. EGAT has the legal mandate for
implementation, and the authority to pursue and implement all facets of
acquiring the DSM resource.  The implementation will be overseen by the DSM
Sub-committee of the Electricity Sub-Committee of the National Energy Policy



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 12 of 53
Committee. This oversight provides a direct linkage between the activities of
the DSMO and the policy organizations of the Government. The relationship among
major Thai energy organizations is shown in Fig. 4.
57.   The DSMO was established by the Board of Directors of EGAT in December
1992.    The EGAT Board and management have decided to place the DSMO within
Corporate Management, reporting directly to the Deputy General Manager of
Corporate Management. Fig. 5 shows the location of the DSMO within the overall
EGAT organization.
58.   The DSMO will consist of five organizational units:  (a) Planning &
Evaluation, (b) Energy Conservation Attitude Creation, (c) Technology, (d)
Program Delivery, and (e) Accounting & Administration.  Fig. 6 indicates the
internal structure of the DSMO. The Energy Conservation Attitude Creation Unit
will draw the majority of its staff from EGAT's Public Relations Department,
and place it under the direction and management of the DSMO.
59.   Current plans call for a total of 120 management staff and support
positions by the end of 1997, with an incremental buildup in staff during the
five year period 1993-1997. In addition, the core DSMO staff will be assisted
in carrying out it's responsibilities through a wide variety of professional,
technical, and delivery support contracts .
60.   Each department will have the following proposed management and staff
positions:
Program Planning & Evaluation Department                 18 positions
DSM Planning Division
DSM Evaluation Division
Program Design & Delivery Department                     35 positions
Residential Programs Division
Commercial Programs Division
Industrial Programs Division
Training & Support Services Division
Energy Conservation Attitude Creation Department         18 positions
Energy Conservation Marketing Division
Energy Conservation Public Relations Division
DSM Information Center
Technology Department                                    25 positions
Testing & Standards Division
Research & Development Division
Technology Demonstration Division
Accounting & Administration Department                   24 positions
Budget & Reporting Division
DSM Contracts Division
DSM Procurement & Storage Division
DSM Incentive Payments Division
61.        Portions  of  the  residential  and  commercial  programs  will  be
conducted  by  the  electric  distribution  authorities,  MEA  and  PEA  and
contractors.   The exact nature of MEA/PEA duties and remuneration would be
decided by the negotiation of specific contracts for services between the DSMO



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 13 of 53
and MEA/PEA. Negotiations will be entered into during the first half of 1993,
while more detailed program implementation plans are being developed.
62.        The DSM programs summarized above will be supported by a number of
activities: (a) development of an enhanced power system planning model,
including an integrated resource planning process; (b) development of an
environmental accounting system; (c) improvements in the existing electricity
forecasting models; (d) structuring a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
that would include design of: (i) a customer and equipment database; (ii) a
monitoring system to report on progress toward meeting programmatic goals; and
(iii) evaluation procedures to enable periodic review of program implementation
and the energy and peak impacts of specific programs; (e) creation of a multi-
sector public relations and marketing effort to move energy markets toward more
efficient equipment; and (f) establishment of testing facilities for energy
equipment to enable the DSMO and industry participants to determine equipment
performance and formulate standards.
B. EauiRment Testing and Building Codes.
63.        In  order  to  implement  the  proposed  programs,  standards  for
efficiency and testing of many of the technologies will be implemented. EGAT
will proceed to set material and performance specifications for the
technologies,  as well as independent testing arrangements.   EGAT has the
authority to set whatever material and performance specifications it deems
necessary to accomplish its objectives. Such specifications are within EGAT's
authority because they are not mandatory standards but rather commercial
transaction agreements.
Appliance and Motor Testing
64.        An essential element of DSM programs will be to ensure that energy-
consuming appliances are being properly tested and rated, so that thqir overall
energy performance can be predicted with some certainty.   Before the DSM
programs for air conditioners, refrigerators and motors begin, an effort to
test the energy performance of this equipment in Thailand will be initiated.
Testing is the foundation for labeling and establishment of DSM incentives for
efficient equipment.   The DSM program assumes that the Government will set
mandatory efficiency standards,  which will increase the efficiency of all
equipment available in the marketplace.
65.        Four major equipment types will be tested:
(a) residential refrigerators
(b) residential air conditioners
(c) fluorescent ballasts
(d) electric motors
66.        A three-step process will be required to establish an effective
certification program for appliances and motors.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 14 of 53
Step 1:    Establish Test Procedures
67.        Early in 1993, the DSMO will seek from the DSM Subcommittee formal
approval of test procedures for testing the efficiency of refrigerators, air
conditioners and electric motors. The initial test procedures may be available
from DEDP and Thailand Industrial Standards Institution (TISI).
Step 2:    Test Appliances and Motors
68.        The testing laboratories will meet international standards, and the
accuracy of the results will be verified in a cross-checking experiment against
other certified testing laboratories. The DSMO will decide upon a contractor
or contractors to perform the efficiency testing by the end of the third
quarter of 1993.  If at that time, the DSMO determines that adequate testing
facilities for a particular appliance do not exist in Thailand, the DSMO will:
(a)  fund  construction  of  a  testing  laboratory  that  meets  international
standards; and (b) prepare an interim strategy for testing the appliances at a
laboratory outside of Thailand until the new laboratory is constructed.
69.        The following are potential testing agencies/firms:
Product Type            Potential Testing
Facilities
Air Conditioners      TISI @ Bangpoo
Chulalongkorn University
Refrigerators         TISI @ Bangpoo
Refrigerator Manufacturers
Ballasts              TISTR @ Bangkok
Dept. of Science Services
Motors                Dept. of Science Services
Step 3:    Establish Minimum Efficiency Requirements for DSM Programs
70.        While  the  DSMO  is  negotiating  agreements  with  the  testing
laboratories, it will establish minimum efficiency requirements for its
appliance and motor efficiency programs. Incentives will be given by the DSMO
for the purchase of equipment that exceeds the efficiency requirements
specified by the DSMO. By the fourth quarter of 1994, when the manufacturers
have begun to produce more efficient products that meet the DSM program
criteria, it is planned that these levels will become mandatory efficiency
standards, within the responsibility of DEDP.
Energy Code For New Commercial Buildings
71.        Mandatory building energy codes can result in energy savings among
building owners who would not otherwise participate in the commercial DSM
programs. At the same time, the existence of the proposed building energy code
in a voluntary form may encourage more buildings to participate in the New



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 15 of 53
Commercial and Institutional Buildings Program. While energy codes act as a
stick to mandate energy-efficient buildings, utility-sponsored programs offer
the carrot of incentives to incorporate efficient design and equipment into new
construction.
72.        There currently exists a proposed energy code for new commercial
buildings, developed several years ago as part of a regional effort to develop
building energy codes to promote electricity conservation in ASEAN countries.
To date, the DEDP has not promoted the code as a voluntary guideline or in any
form.
73.        The DSM program development process will depend on the following
decisions and actions to ensure the establishment of an energy code for new
buildings:
(a) In order to be successfully implemented, the code should be
integrated  into  the existing building  code.    DEDP  should
solicit comments on the proposed ASEAN energy code from the
Department of Public Works (DPW) and the Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration (BMA).
(b) The DSMO will give DEDP, DPW, and BMA technical assistance in
the determination of the appropriate code provisions. However,
the DSMO will not be responsible for code compliance.
(c) The DSMO will offer financial incentives for measures that
exceed the efficiency requirements of the proposed building
code. Design assistance will be the only incentive offered to
owners proposing minimal compliance with the standard.
(d) DEDP will develop a working group as a first step toward
implementing the mandatory energy code. The working group will
be   comprised   of  representatives   from   the  DSMO,   the
architectural and engineering community, and manufacturing
firms.
(e) The code will be set at a practical level, even if, in the
beginning,  it means sacrificing some efficiency.   The draft
code will include an implementation timetable and a clear and
detailed description of the proposed enforcement mechanism.
C. Pr2lect Financing Mechanism.
74.        That portion of the overall DSMP funded by EGAT will be financed
through an electricity tariff adjustment mechanism. This mechanism is designed
to recover costs for demand side management program expenses, fuel price
escalation, value added tax payments, land and property taxes. It will be used
to collect revenue that will be spent to achieve the savings targets of the DSM
project.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 16 of 53
D. Other Supporting Activities.
75.        The   Energy   Conservation   Promotion   Act   formalizes   the
responsibilities of the DEDP as the lead implementation agency for energy
conservation on the broader non-utility, all fuels, national level. It gives
DEDP the authority to issue voluntary building energy codes and appliance
efficiency  standards.    It  identifies  a  class  of  large  energy  users  as
"controlled facilities" and requires that they hire energy managers, conduct
energy studies and develop energy conservation plans, or face large financial
penalties.   The Energy Conservation Center of Thailand (ECCT) is a special
project of DEDP and the Federation of Thai Industries and will serve as the
audit consultant for conducting the Industrial Process Efficiency Program.
76.        The Energy Conservation Promotion Act also establishes the Energy
Conservation Promotion Fund (ECF).  The ECF will provide financing to energy
conservation, renewable energy projects and cogeneration projects (for on-site
use only). It has been proposed that the ECF investment funds be provided on a
grant basis.   The funds will also support all related training, technical
assistance, promotion, monitoring and evaluation, research and demonstration,
technology transfer, and related activities that improve environmental
conditions.
E. Technical Assistance and Training.
77.        Extensive consulting services to increase the capability of staff
and institutions in Thailand are an integral part of the DSMP. Services will be
provided by both Thai and foreign firms as well as Thai technical schools and
universities.
78.        Demand-Side Management activities in the Thai context are new and a
program of the magnitude recommended in this assessment has never been
attempted in Thailand.   During the first five years of the DSM effort a
substantial amount of the program budget will need to be devoted to DSM staff
skill and knowledge development.   Training and skill development will be
targeted on practical instead of theoretical skills in order to ensure the
success of the program and capture the maximum savings.
79.        The  goal  of developing practical  skills  would be  achieved by
combining training with program implenentation assistance. While programs are
being implemented by the DSMO staff and outside experts (Thai and non-Thai) the
staff will be developing the needed skills. A second method of promoting skill
development would be the peer to peer contacts between DSMO staff and utility
staff in other countries where DSM programs are being implemented.
80.        Several specific skills areas that will need to be developed.  The
primary areas are:
(a) Energy Efficient Technologies
(b) Economic Analysis (customer, utility, societal perspectives)
(c) Program Marketing Techniques (the customer's perspective)
(d) Program Monitoring and Evaluation Techniques
(e) Program Management/Implementation Skills



TECHNICAL ANNM
Page 17 of 53
(f) DSM Program Design
81.        Two areas where technical assistance and training are important but
where the effort will be much smaller include:
(g)  Integrated  Resource  Planning  and  Load  Forecasting  and
Environmental Resource Accounting
(h) Efficiency Testing
82.        In addition,  private  sector  capability building activities  are
required to ensure cooperation and integration of the private sector in the DSM
programs.
(i) Private Sector Capability Building
83.        To assist in providing the capabilities needed to assure the success
of the DSM programs, training  within each skill area will be provided.  The
technical elements discussed below are more extensive than the current budget
will permit; prioritization of training activities would be necessary as
program development proceeds.
Energy Efficient Technologies
(a)        Building Simulation Modeling.
(b)        Course on Surveying and Auditing Complex Buildings.
(c)        Energy Modeling/Simulation
(d)        Baseline Lighting Program Surveys.
(e)        Develop Motor Rewind Guidelines.
(f)        Process Efficiency Training.
Economic Analysis
(a)        Economic Analysis of Energy Conservation Measures.
Marketing Techniques
(a)        Marketing and Advertising Training.
(b)        Survey Research and Analysis.
(c)        Market Research Training.
Monitoring and Evaluation Techniques
(a)        DSM Database.
(b)        Energy Impact Evaluation Training.
(c)        Process Evaluation Training.
Program Management/Implementation Skills
(a)        DSM Program Technical Support.
(b)        DSM Program Management Support.
(c)        Computers.
(d)        Energy Efficiency Library.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 18 of 53
(e)        Peer Match.   These item provides a two way utility exchange of
staff.
(f)        International Conferences on various DSM subject areas.
DSN Program Design
(a)        DSM Program Design Support.
(b)        Incentive Calculations.
Integrated Resource Planning, Load Forecasting, and Environmental Accounting
(a)        Integrated Resource Planning Model training
(b)        Load Forecasting Assistance.
(c)        Environmental Resource Accounting.
Efficiency Testing
(a)        Testing Facility Assessment at Chulalongkorn University and other
agencies.
(b)        Turn-key  Test  Facility  at  Chulalongkorn  University  and  other
agencies.
(c)        Training for Testing Personnel.
(d)        Train Motor Testing Staff.
Development of Private Sector Capabilities
(a)        Federation  of  Thai  Industries   (FTI)  Air  Conditioning  Club
Certification Assistance.
(b)        Energy Efficiency for Architects and Engineers.
(c)        Building Code Training.
(d)        Principles of Lighting Design - Training Course.
(e)        DSM Masters Program at AIT and other agencies.
(f)        Sponsor Courses in the Engineering and Architecture Departments at
Thai Universities.
(g)        Training in Efficient Rewind Techniques.
(h)        Engineering Community Seminars - Motor System Efficiency.
F. Procurement and Disbursement.
84.        The project would involve several categories of procurement (Table
11) including: (a) goods to be used for program implementation such as testing
equipment, computer hardware and software; (b) goods that would be purchased by
the DSMO and then installed at consumers' premises either free of charge or at
discount; (c) incentives provided in the form of cash rebates to consumers and
manufacturers to switch over to more efficient equipment and systems, free
services for audits and building designs and awards; (d) services procured for
implementation of the program including marketing, engineering/architectural
design, installation, testing, monitoring and evaluation; (e) consultancies
including technical assistance and training; and (f) DSHO administrative
expenses. All of the aforementioned categories except categories (c) and (f)
would be eligible for financing from the GET and GOA funds.   The Bank's
procurement guidelines would be followed in procuring goods and services for



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 19 of 53
the GET/GOA-financed portion of the project (MOD Schedule B, pages 1 and 2)
including: (a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) - about US$3 million
equivalent; (b) Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) up to an aggregate of US$11
million equivalent, in packages not exceeding the equivalent of US$200,000; (c)
Local and International Shopping and Limited International Bidding (LIB) up to
an aggregate of US$2 million equivalent, in packages not exceeding the
equivalent of US$200,000; (d) consultancies including technical assistance and
training - about US$6 million equivalent. In the evaluation of bids following
ICB procedures, domestic price preference would be applicable for specific
components as approved by the Bank. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the
CIF bid price of the imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufactures.   Prior
Bank review of the bid documents and approval of contract awards would be
mandatory for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of (a) US$1.0
million or more for goods, and (b) US$100,000 or more for consultancy services.
85.        The grants will be disbursed as follows:   (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported goods; (b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory)
for locally manufactured goods; (c) 70% of total expenditures for other goods
procured locally; (d) 70% of total expenditure for services; and (e) 100% of
total expenditure for technical assistance and training. Disbursements may be
made against Statement of Expenditures (SOE's) for the following expenditures:
(a) contracts for goods valued below US$150,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for
services valued below US$100,000 equivalent; and (c) contracts for technical
assistance and training valued below US$100,000 equivalent.   The supporting
documents for SOE's will be retained by EGAT and will be available for review
by supervision missions upon request.   All other requests for disbursements
would be  fully  documented.    Retroactive  financing up  to US$1.0  million
equivalent for technical assistance and training will be permissible for
expenditures incurred between December 7, 1992 and the date of grant agreement
signing. A Special Account will be established for the project with an initial
deposit of US$1.5 million (of which $1.0 million will be from the GET).
G. Monitoring and Evaluation of DSM Program Performance.
86.       The ability to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the various
DSM programs summarized above,  is critical to the ability of the DSMO   to
identify and initiate needed remedial actions and assure the cost-effectiveness
of the various DSM programs. In order to implement an effective DSM strategy
with adequate monitoring and evaluation, the DSMO evaluation staff will
identify research projects, develop specifications for the projects, develop
databases for use by contractors and internal organizations, contract with
firms to provide the research, manage the contracts to obtain the required
information, and facilitate the process for using the evaluation and monitoring
results within the DSMO.
87.       Evaluation team staffing, skills, and development needs have already
been determined. Specific recommendations that will be implemented during the
initial stages of capability development include:
The DSMO Evaluation staff will include staff with skills in
econometrics, engineering analysis, and social science research.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 20 of 53
A staffing goal of the DSMO is to retain an evaluation manager with
experience in evaluation research and either econometric, market
research, or social research experience.
Training of staff members will be accomplished through active
participation in the program planning and design process, immediate
implementation of a series of research projects discussed below,
participation by staff in evaluation training seminars, and
attendance at international DSM conferences.
88.       In preparing the initial evaluation plans for the DSM programs to be
implemented during the five-year period, the key objective of the evaluation,
the methodologies to be used to achieve the objective, and the key research
tasks to be conducted under each methodological approach have been identified.
However, specific approaches for conducting the research tasks will be
determined during the detailed design of the specific DSM programs, beginning
in 1993.
89.       In conducting evaluations, the critical parameter is information on
program performance. Data will be collected to represent conditions prior to
the implementation of the programs as well as after the programs have been
implemented.   Baseline information, estimates of savings and market effects
will be collected and/or estimated. Data collection techniques will include:
interviews, surveys, audits, engineering design studies, on-site metering, site
visits, utility billing and customer data, and program related data forms. A
variety of data analysis techniques will be applied to these data including:
simple to complex engineering analysis, descriptive and multi-variate
statistical analysis, and qualitative analysis.
90.       Staffing will begin with at least 50% of the full complement in the
first year and staff growth in following years will track the growth of the DSM
programs. The Monitoring and Evaluation staff will be integrated into the
program planning and design process.   An evaluation staff person will be
assigned to each program team.   The staff person will be responsible for
identifying and executing market research issues associated with program
development and for identifying evaluation issues that surface in the program
design process.   The evaluation team member will also be responsible for
identifying the data requirements for evaluating the program and for monitoring
the program during its implementation.
91.       It will be essential for the success of the DSM programs to utilize
the resources of the existing Thai industry to the greatest extent possible. As
a result of an assessment of private sector capabilities  to support DSM
activities initiated by the DSMO,  the firms were identified as having the
potential for working with the DSMO.
Manager Information Services Co. Ltd..   MIS' major focus is the
development of corporate and financial databases for Thailand.   In
addition to developing and maintaining databases,  the company has
subsidiaries and business centers that conduct direct marketing
activities, marketini research,  and news clipping services.   The
databases include inves. ient information, company profiles, factory
profiles,  and  macroeconomic  statistics.    These  databases  are



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 21 of 53
accessible for a fee, and additional data could be collected to
enhance the database.   For instance, the Company Profiles database
(in English and Thai) contains general company information on 30,000
companies, the Business Contact Profiles contains additional
background and financial information on 10,000 Thai firms, with more
detailed  financial profiles  on  5,000  companies.    The  Factories
database contains information on the more than 80,000 factories
registered with the Ministry of Industry since 1978. The databases
focus on medium and large firms; the factory database covers close to
100% of the factories in Thailand.
DEEMAR  ComDany.  Ltd..    This  is  the  oldest  marketing  research
organization in Thailand. It is part of a network of Asian Marketing
Research Firms called,  the Survey Research Group  (SRG).   DEEMAR
conducts standard marketing research. DEEMAR's analytic capabilities
are state of the art for market research, they are beginning to
conduct lifestyle and target market studies. DEEMAR has developed
extensive data sources on Bangkok, these include a demographic data
base and a media index.   They conduct a national survey of 8,000
households annually.   To extrapolate to the population as a whole
they use data from the Institute for Population Studies at
Chulalongkorn University. DEEMAR also has data on durable goods from
this demographic survey,  these data cover 15 years.   DEEMAR has
identified a small market segment already purchasing energy efficient
equipment, such as compact florescent and efficient appliances. This
segment constitutes about 10% of the market and are people who have
already made purchases of energy inefficient equipment and now as
they make replacement purchases they have begun to consider energy
efficiency as a value added component, especially if they have a
concern for the environment.
Development Services Ltd..   This is another market research firm in
Bangkok specializing in assisting companies to identify market
opportunities in Thailand. It is understood that telephone surveying
for the residential sector would be insufficient to reach a broad
based  sample.      Current  telephone  saturation  in  Bangkok  is
approximately 50% of the residential market and upcountry is much
lower.    In the  industrial  sector  and  in  the medium and large
commercial sector telephone surveys can work as telephone saturation
rates  are  much  higher.    However,  both  small  commercial  and
residential must be contacted through in-person interviews. DEEMAR
has mapped Thailand into section of 200 household units. Using these
sections, they conduct in-person surveys for all residential consumer
research. They also conduct retail audits on consumer products in
the market place, these are similar to floor inventory studies. The
cost of conducting in-person interviews, however, is approximately
equal to the cost of conducting telephone surveys in the United
States.
92.       There are a large number of research projects that must be undertaken
by the DSMO to obtain the market data required to determine the effectiveness
of the DSM program and to ensure that the program designs are responsive to



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 22 of 53
market conditions. A series of projects have been identified for implementation
in 1992 and 1993:
(a) Appliance saturation survey. The current survey used to collect end-
use data for the load forecasting group will be expanded in terms of
sample size and depth, to identify different characteristics for PEA
and MEA customers and to identify energy consumption patterns.
(b)  Commercial building survey.   A commercial building survey will be
implemented to obtain end-use characteristics data for the commercial
sector.   These data will be used for load forecasting as well as
planning  estimates   to  identify  critical  energy  and  demand
characteristics.
(c) Retail audits/floor inventory studies. A series of baseline studies
will be conducted prior to implementation of the DSM programs on the
targeted technologies (lighting, AC, Refrigerator, motors, etc.).
These baseline studies would be either retail audits or floor
inventory studies to determine the availability of these technologies
in the various market areas of Thailand.    Statistically robust
sampling strategies will be used to select outlets for these
technologies to be studied.
(d) Customer satisfaction survey. Customer satisfaction surveys will be
developed for MEA and PEA.  A country-wide study is planned.  The
survey would be used to monitor overall satisfaction with the
electricity authorities.
(e)  Utility  image  study.    The  DSMO will  investigate  the value  of
conducting an image study and developing an internal and external DSM
image strategy that can be responsive to the specific conditions of
Thailand.
93.       Specific training efforts for the DSMO Evaluation staff will focus on
evai. ation issues in general, computer literacy enhancement, and contract
management. Evaluation training will consist of attendance by Evaluation Staff
members at international conferences and through an evaluation training course.
Specific conferences that should be considered include: Evaluation Training
Seminars sponsored by the Electric Power Research Institute at various
locations and dates in the United States; The International Energy Program
Evaluation Conference in Chicago, Illinois; the Summer Study for Energy
Efficiency sponsored by the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy;
and the Summer Study for Energy Efficiency sponsored by the European Council
for an Energy Efficient Economy.
94.       The evaluation training course for Evaluation staff will typically be
conducted over a two week period.   Training will include a combination of
lecture and lab, using actual projects related to the DSM Office activities.
DSM Evaluation specialists will conduct the training, with the workbook
translated into the Thai language to enhance technology transfer opportunities.
After the initial training of staff, Thai speaking staff will continue to use
the workbook to train other DSM Office staff members and other interested
parties.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 23 of 53
95.       Database and spreadsheet computer training will be provided to all
DSM Office staff and particularly Evaluation staff. Familiarity with database
and spreadsheet programs is critical for ensuring that the databases will be
useful to both program staff and evaluation staff. In addition, some training
in statistical software will be required.   It is planned that at least one
Evaluation Team member will be proficient in either SAS or SPSS in order to
execute the statistical analyses required for the evaluations.
96.       In structuring the specific DSM program evaluation plans that will
become part of the overall detailed program designs to be initiated in 1993,
four basic questions will be addressed:
(a) What happened as a result of the program, was the goal achieved? This
will be investigated in terms of market effects, savings, costs,
number of participants, etc.  Program goals will be measurable and
stated clearly.
(b) Was the program implemented as planned? This will be investigated in
terms of the utility, customers, trade allies, contractors, and
stakeholder views of the program plan. It will include reviewing
administrative and delivery mechanisms, cost and quality control
procedures and the associated questions of whether the intentions of
the program planners and designers were implemented in the field.
(c) Why did these things happen as they did? Why were the goals achieved
or not achieved? Why was the program implemented as planned or
differently? These questions are important to understand how to
change and improve the program to make it more responsive to the
market.
(d) What can be done to improve, change, and or expand the program? These
may result in new goals and objectives for the program and for the
evaluation process to examine in the future.
97.       In the preparation of the evaluation plans, once the program designs
have been finalized during the first year of program development, several
elements will be developed, including the key objective of the evaluation, the
methodologies to be used to achieve the objective, and the key research tasks
to be conducted under each methodological approach.   Specific approaches for
conducting the research tasks will be determined during the development of the
specifications for the research plans.
98.       As an example of the typical elements of an evaluation plan, the
following is illustrative of the critical research questions that must be
addressed. In the following example, the set of proposed residential programs
have been used.
(a) Objective: Estimate load and market impacts, assess effectiveness of
program implementation process.
(b) Impact Methodology: The impacts will be estimated in several ways.
First, end-use load metering will be conducted on a sample of new and
existing refrigerators to estimate load impacts for a sample of



TECHNICALN
Page 24 of 53
refrigerators  representing  the  range  of  refrigerators  sold  in
Thailand. Second, a retail audit will be conducted each year of the
program to assess the change in the refrigerator market.   Third,
engineering estimates combined with survey data will be used to
estimate impacts for lighting measures. Fourth, after at least 1000
customers have participated in the audit and education portion of the
program, a billing analysis will be conducted for audited homes to
estimate total program impacts.
(c)  Process Methodology: Interviews will be conducted with manufacturers
and dealers to assess their response to the manufacturers incentives
aspect of the program, particular focus should be on identifying
additional opportunities for efficiency improvements in other
refrigerator models.   Customer surveys will be conducted to assess
awareness of the labeling campaign, lighting technologies, and energy
audits.   Interviews with program staff and EGAT management staff
associated with DSMO activities will be conducted along with a review
of program documents and records.
(d) Research Projects
(i) Calls to DSM Office will be recorded and tracked. These will be
summarized   monthly   and   combined   into   annual   reports.
Correlations of response to various communication and publicity
efforts will be examined.
(ii) Audit requests and data will be recorded and tracked. The data
will be summarized monthly and combined into annual reports.
(iii)  Interviews   will  be   conducted  with  utility   staff  and
subcontractors   to  assess   their  views   of   the  program
implementation process.   Interviews will include a sample of
field staff interviewed through group interviews or by telephone
to obtain their view of the program implementation process
focusing on administration and delivery.  Follow-up interviews
will be conducted every six months and annually thereafter,
until the program appears to be functioning effectively.
(iv) Interviews will be conducted with manufacturers and distributors
of refrigerators and lighting equipment to determine whether the
incentive process has had an effect on their approach to
manufacturing energy efficient equipment.
(v) A long term end-use metering project will be developed to track
the condition of new and existing refrigerators being purchased
in Thailand. Efforts will be made to identify opportunities for
further improvement and to fully assess the average consumption
for different sizes of existing and new refrigerators.
(vi) A survey of retailers and distributors for refrigerators and
lighting equipment will be conducted annually to assess the
availability of energy efficient equipment and to determine if
the market has been influenced by the program.



TECHNICAL AN
Page 25 of 53
(vii)  An annual survey of audited customers and nonparticipants will
be conducted to track changes in energy behavior and obtain data
for use in calculating engineering estimates of savings.
(viii)  After 1000 customers have had audits, a billing analysis will be
conducted   of   audited   participants   and   a   sample   of
nonparticipants. The annual survey data will be used to
calculate a conditional demand analysis as well.
99.       The monitoring and evaluation of DSH programs will be an ongoing
function of the DSHO to ensure achievement of program goals. Where problems
occur in either the program implementation process or in the operating
performance of a particular energy-efficient technology, the initial
characteristics of the program will be modified.
G. Implementation Schedule.
100.      Figure 7 provides a summary display of the proposed implementation
schedule, with major activities and milestones identified for the next five
years.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Program Cost Effectiveness.
101.      All  proposed  programs  for  the  project have  been  screened  for
cost-effectiveness. This screening was conducted based on the Total Resource
Cost Test (TRC), one of several tests commonly performed in examining the
cost-effectiveness of DSM programs in North America.   Under this test, the
benefits of undertaking a DSM program include the avoided costs associated with
the energy savings from the program. The costs include utility program costs
and the cost to the program participant.   This is a comprehensive test for
determining DSM program cost-effectiveness, and is used by many utilities and
regulatory bodies as the primary test for determining whether or not programs
should be implemented.
102.      For the analysis of the DSM programs, average long-run marginal cost
derived from a recent study by EGAT - US$ 0.025/kWh for energy ard US$1,400/kw
for capacity was used.  At 70% load factor the avoided energy cost is about
US$0.058/kWh.   Conservatively, measures in the various programs were judged
cost effective if they cost less than the pure generation avoided cost of
US$0.043/kWh (excluding transmission and distribution costs). A benefit cost
analysis for each of the proposed programs showed that all of the programs are
cost-effective and have costs lower than EGAT's long run marginal cost of
generation.   All benefit cost calculations were based upon a total resource
perspective.    Therefore,  costs  include  customer  measure  costs,  utility
incentives and utility program administration costs. A summary of the benefit
cost analysis is shown in Table 9.



TECHNICAL ANN
Page 26 of 53
103.      Another perspective on the cost effectiveness of the total five-year
DSM program is provided by performing the relatively simple comparison between
the long run energy and capacity costs for EGAT's supply options and the
equivalent costs of the saved electricity resulting from the implementation of
the DSM programs. It is estimated that the set of DSM programs will save 1,427
GWh and 238 MW over the five year period at an average cost of energy saved of
US$ 0.0172/Kwh (the cost of energy saved by DSM is equal to the annualized
value of the DSM expense divided by the annual energy saved).   The set of
programs, assuming all elements of the project are implemented as planned, will
achieve a lower cost energy resource than electricity supply options and thus
provides a cost effective resource for Thailand to invest in.   Table 10
summarizes the program benefits compared to electricity supply alternative.
B. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction.
104.      The power sector now accounts for nearly 33 percent of Thailand's
total carbon dioxide emissions. It will surpass transportation as the major
source of C02 emissions in Thailand. In 2001, if the present trends continue,
the power sector will account for approximately 43 percent of Thailand's C02
emissions by the year 2001.
105.      By deferring or eliminating the need to build fossil-fuel fired power
plants, an aggressive 10-year DSM effort has the potential to reduce annual C02
emissions from the power sector in the year 2001 by 13 percent.
106.      The fuel saved due to the successful implementation of the DSMP,
described above, is the marginal fuel which in the case of Thailand is oil.
Detailed simulations with and without DSM, performed by EGAT indicate an annual
saving due to DSM savings of 1,427 GWh/annum as 436 million liters of oil by
the end of 1997.   The estimated corresponding savings in C02 is about 1.16
million tons. The country would thus save US$50 for every ton of C02 emissions
avoided.
C. Prolect Risks.
107.      The success of the DSM program assumes an effective DSM organization,
products and technologies supported by the program will function and save
energy as predicted, and widespread interest and participation in the programs.
If the program does not achieve its energy savings and demand reduction
objectives, EGAT will have to construct some of the power plants that it
expected to defer or avoid through the DSM investment.
108.      The risk categories for potential failure of the program include,
institutional risk, technological risk, and market risk.
109.      The institutional risk is the most serious.  The level of staffing
recommended in the program must be met by the DSMO, substituted with competent
staff from other agencies, or through performance contracting.   Without the
full complement of staff, the savings targets cannot be met. The result could
put EGAT behind in its construction schedule for new generation to meet loads.
The personal commitment by the EGAT General Manager to ensure the development
and success of the DSM organization will mitigate much of the risk.  The DSM



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 27 of 53
Sub-Committee has been established to secure the cooperation and commitment of
other government agencies in support of the DSM program.
110.      There is some technological risk, although most of the products that
have been selected already function well in Thailand's climate.   Lighting
technologies present the most likelihood of risk. Electronic ballasts may be
susceptible to shorter operating lives because of higher ambient temperatures.
While the DSM program is recommending use of these ballasts in air conditioned
buildings, heat loads do build up during non-cooling hours. Some testing will
have to be conducted through the program to identify any potential problems
related to the higher temperatures.   The ballasts themselves operate at a
cooler temperature than the standard product and thereby contribute less heat
to the surrounding space.
111.      The lack of effective operation and maintenance practices can result
in the degradation of equipment performance and efficiency.   The DSMP  also
recommends steps to ensure training and assistance in this vital area.   For
example, building commissioning activities proposed for the new commercial
buildings program will ensure that building owners and operators are fully
knowledgeable about the energy systems in the buildings.
112.      Some market risk is possible due to a lack of interest in the DSM
programs by large portions of the potential market in each sector.   If the
market will not respond to the marketing, technical and financial incentives
offered by EGAT, the savings cannot be achieved. To mitigate potential risk,
in each program, all incentives are designed to benefit the customer and reduce
or eliminate the extra cost of efficient products. Program incentives can be
tailored to meet individual customer's needs, depending upon the program.
113.      The relationship between encouraging DSM through the adoption of
standards and codes at the macro-economic level and offering incentives at the
project level is complex. Often, these options are viewed as alternatives to
one another. It is more appropriate to view these options as complementing one
another. For example, part of the DSM plan addresses efficiency standards and
codes for energy consuming equipment and   buildings.   Adoption of these
standards as law would reduce the cost for financial incentives offered in
programs to promote the adoption of higher efficier.cy levels.
114.      At  the  macro-economic  level,  marginal  cost  pricing,  or  other
innovative rate options are often proposed. While these pricing options have
met with some success, they have not significantly encouraged adoption of DSM
due to two factors. First, options such as marginal cost pricing carry serious
political and economic consequences of their own that reach far beyond simply
encouraging DSM. As a result, they are often considered a non-viable option.
Second, utilities and customers respond differently to price signals, due to
differences in investment criteria, acceptable rates of return, availability
and cost of capital, and business focus.
115.      In determining appropriate financial  incentives to offer at the
project level, equipment standards, building codes, energy pricing, and the
markets targeted are considered. Financial incentives are structured to move
the market by offering customers an incentive attractive enough to stimulate
participation. For example, in new construction, this may be the incremental



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 28 of 53
difference in cost between meeting the current building code and meeting
increased efficiency levels.
116.      For large industrial facilities, this may mean offering an incentive
designed  to  return  the  customer's  investment  in  a  12  month  period.
Macro-economic incentives designed to encourage DSH work together with project
level incentives to obtain the desired results. Financial incentives (macro or
project level) address only one of the many barriers that need to be addressed
to successfully encourage energy efficiency.   The programs contained in the
proposed project include design features that address other significant
barriers to the adoption of DSM as well.
117.      Program elements include marketing to increase public awareness,
training    to  increase  professional  expertise,  technical  assistance  to
facilitate customer participation, and steps to assure quality control.   By
working with other DSM professionals from throughout the world, the Thais are
in a position to adapt this experience to the Thai situation.  By monitoring
and evaluating program efforts on an on-going basis, adjustments can be made to
improve program performance in a timely manner.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
118.      The following agreements have been reached by the Bank with the
Government and the DSMO:
(a)       Not later than October 31, 1993, the Government will establish and
thereafter maintain a DSMO organization within EGAT with functions
and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.   The staffing level of the
DSMO would be achieved according to the following schedule: (a) not
less than 40 persons by December 31, 1993; and (b) not less than 120
persons by December 31, 1995.
(b)       The Government shall ensure that DSMO will employ, not later than
October 31, 1993, at least one full-time expatriate consultant
(according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank) to assist it
in the implementation of the project, for an initial period of not
less than 2 years.
(c)       The DSMO shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.    Such  consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)       The Government shall cause the DSMO to develop and carry out a
program for training of its staff in various areas of demand-side
management. The DSMO will submit to the Bank for review a detailed
plan for training on an annual basis and finalize the plan taking



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 29 of 53
into consideration the Bank's comments.   The first plan shall be
submitted by October 31, 1993.
(e)       The Government shall cause the DSMO to develop and carry out a
program for integrating electricity supply-side and demand-side
planning and environmental externalities, direct utility demand
control and electricity pricing in the power development plans of the
electric utilities.
(f)       The Government shall cause the DSMO to develop and carry out a
program for the investigation of: (a) load management options; (b)
savings potential of new technologies in lighting, cooling and
building materials areas through demonstration projects; and (c)
improved efficiency in agricultural water pumping and irrigation.
(g)       The Government  shall,  not  later  than December  31,  1995,  adopt
building codes and national performance standards for DSM measures
(including motors,  refrigerators,  air  conditioners  and  lighting
apparatus).
(h)       The Government shall ensure that, not later than December 31, 1993,
the DSMO shall establish laboratories and testing facilities and
shall develop related materials and performance specifications for
equipment for the project.
I)        The Government shall cause the DSMO to submit to the Bank by December
31, 1993 and thereafter on an annual basis, for review and approval
the following detailed plans and programs: (i) savings targets for
the DSM program; (ii) detailed plan for Monitoring and Cataloging DSM
activities for the future benefit of other utilities; (iii)
Monitoring and Evaluation Protocols for each program.
(j)       The Government  shall take all measures necessary to assure the
availability of finance for the project, including the sanctioning of
increases in the electricity tariff.
(k)       Performance indicators to be used for monitoring and evaluation of
the Project, and Terms of Reference for the monitoring and evaluation
technical assistance shall be agreed with the Bank by June 30, 1994.
VI. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Background and Objectives.
119.      The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), is embarking
on a comprehensive demand-side-management (DSM) program which over the next
five years will have an outlay of US$189 million.   The Global Environmental
Facility (GEF) and the Australian Government (GOA) have agreed to provide grant
financing of about US$15.5 million for this program. Details of this program



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 30 of 53
are given in the attached Memorandum of the Director of the World Bank and the
Technical  Annex.    Reference  should  also  be  made  to  the  pre-investment
feasibility study carried out by the consultant International Institute of
Energy Conservation (IIEC) for further information. Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) have been considered as important activities of the DSM program and
provision has been made for undertaking this work by EGAT and external agencies
contracted by EGAT.   The Government has decided to appoint an Independent
Monitoring and Evaluation Agency (IMEA) with the main objectives of ensuring,
through an independent assessment, that the goals and expections of the GEF are
met.   In this regard,  the principal concern of GEF is to determine the
reduction in green-house gas emissions which the DSM program is achieving and
to monitor through select performance indicators the effectiveness of the
technologies and the programs being carried out by EGAT. The GEF would also
like to ensure that the program is cost-effective, sustainable and replicable.
B. IMEA Budget. Role and Work Plan.
120.      A budget of US$0.5 million has been earmarked exclusively for the
IMEA and it is expected that this will disburse in five equal annual
investments  of US$100,000.    The  IMEA will be  an  expatriate  institution
(consulting firm and/or utility) which will depute staff experienced in the
implementation of comprehensive DSM programs.   The appointment of IMEA is
expected to be effective by October 1993. While expatriate staff will provide
expert guidance and will be required to visit Thailand about twice a year, it
is expected that IMEA will need to employ independent local experts (firms or
individuals) to undertake more detailed M&E work in Thailand. The budget for
local expertise could be about 30 to 40% of the overall budget for the
services.  In general, the role of the IMEA will be one of independent review
and advice (with reference to the DSM program in general and its M&E function
in particular) and not detailed planning and formulation which will be
accomplished by EGAT with the assistance of consultants employed under the
project. While maintaining its independent role, the IMEA will work in close
cooperation  with  EGAT  and  other  agencies  employed  by  EGAT  for  the
implementation of the program. It will report directly to the Government. The
following documentation will be furnished by the IMEA:
(a)       The first report to be submitted in November 1993 giving a critical
review of the initial monitoring and evaluation plans and
recommendations on its strenghening, the setting of evaluation
criteria and performance norms for the program, and establishing
methodologies for the estimation of savings of MW, GWh and greenhouse
gas emissions (Section C, paras. (a), (b) and (c)).
(b)       Quarterly progress reports to be submitted one month after submission
of the quarterly progress reports by EGAT.
(c)       An annual report that would give a detailed analysis of the status of
the DSM program.
(d)       Non-scheduled reports when urgent action is necessary.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 31 of 53
(e)       A completion report after the fifth year of the DSM program.
C. Scoge of Work.
121.      The scope of activities of the IMEA will inter-alia include the
following:
(a)       A review of -- the initial monitoring and evaluation plans for the
DSM programs, the key objectives of the evaluation, the methodologies
to be used to achieve the objective, and the key research tasks to be
conducted under each methodological approach -- that have been laid
out  in the project  documents.    Identifying  gaps  and providing
suggestions on strengthening.
(b)       Setting criteria and performance indicators that will be used in the
evaluation  of  the program should be  agreed  at  the  outset  and
modified, as necessary, as the program proceeds.   These could be
based inter alia on parameters such as: (i) the number of households
participating in the lighting programs, including the type and
quantity of efficient lighting equipment installed; (ii) the number
of manufacturers participating in the efficient air conditioner and
refrigerator programs and the number and ratings of efficient
equipments produced and sold; (iii) the number and sizes of existing
commercial establishments retrofitting with more efficient lighting
systems; (iv) the number and sizes of new commercial buildings
adopting more energy-efficient designs; (v) the number and ratings of
more energy efficient motors used, both new and replacement; (vi) the
efficiency of the testing and standards laboratories set up, -the
volume of testing and certification work undertaken and the number of
manufacturers who have had their equipment certified; (vi) the
progress in the introduction of energy efficiency standards and
design codes; (vii) the progress in the dvelopment of the private
sector in delivering cost-effective energy management services such
as number of audits conducted and number of efficient motor repair
shops certified; and (ix) the effectiveness of the technologies being
employed.
(c)       The IMEA would be required to certify the methodology and analysis
for: (i) estimating aggregate MW and GWh savings, taking into
consideration diversity and load factor; (ii) corelating the GWh and
MW savings with the daily operation of the power system generators,
estimating the fuel savings from those plants tlat are not used as a
consequence of DSM and the equivalent savings in the emission of
greenhouse gases based on fuel and plant charact fristics; and (iii)
scenario analysis with and without the DSM pro'ect to be able to
assign realistic savings to the DSM program.
(d)       Detailed review of the specific objectives, goals .nd methodology for
M&E formulated for each DSM program during the detaiLled design phase.
This would include identification of target markets, MW and GWh
savings to be achieved, the technologies to be employed and the
timing and frequency of M&E. Some of the important aspects that each



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 32 of 53
program would need to focus on are: (i) baseline studies for
characterizing the initial status of the customer or equipment
market; (ii) the structure of the data base and tracking system;
(iii) the specific details on the types of procedures and protocols;
and (iv) methodologies, surveys, sampling and statistical techniques
(e)       Review of the form and content of the findings and recommendations of
an M&E assessment including: (i) comparison of actual versus planned
program goals; (ii) reasons (process and impact-related) for
deviations; (iii) types of documents needed to support the
conclusions; and (iv) recommendations for incorporating lessons
learned from the first cycle;
(f)       An ongoing review of the results of M&E conducted by EGAT including
independent checks in the field through sample measurements and
surveys.
(g)       A review of the quarterly progress reports furnished by EGAT with
particular emphasis on (i) achievement of inhouse staffing levels and
skills and adequacy and appropriateness of external assistance; (ii)
independent assessment of actual versus planned progress and actual
versus planned savings; (iii) review of data base development and
data compilation to ensure comprehensiveness of information for
future use; (iv) overview of compliance with conditionalities laid
down by the GEF; and (v) identification of opportunities to capture
cost effective savings based on recent international and national
technological developments.
(h)       Based on the review in (g) above: (i) recommending modifications, as
necessary, to the strategic direction of the overall DSM effort; (ii)
identifying remedial actions for programs not achieving performance
targets; and (iii) recommending possible new technologies, delivery
mechanisms and/or market focus for programs requiring complete
redirection or reconfiguration.
VII. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT -
BRIEF DESCRIPTION
A. Proiect Backeround.
122.      In spite of incentives provided by the Government  to encourage
development outside Metropolitan Bangkok, there continues an increasing demand
for the location of commercial establishments, small industries and residential
conglomerates within the area served by MEA.  The consequent rapid growth in
demand for electricity has made it imperative for MEA to improve and expand its
distribution system at a rapid pace. MEA's investment program is laid out in
five-year plans coinciding with the Government's Economic and Social
Development Plans.   MEA's Seventh Plan (1992-96) involves addition of:  (a)
2,200  MVA  of  transmission  substations;  (b)  3,280  MVA  of  distribution
substations; (c) 277 km of HV lines; (d) 1,950 km of MV lines; (e) 2,750 km of



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 33 of 53
LV lines; (f) 2,200 MVA of distribution transformers; and (g) installation of
316,000 new revenue meters. The proposed project covers the first two years of
MEA's Seventh Plan.
B. Proiect Obiectives.
123.      The main objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to improve and
expand the distribution system of MEA in order to meet the expected rapid
increase in demand; (b) to sustain the efficiency of MEA's operations in the
face of a rapid increase in the scope and complexity of its business; (c) to
strengthen the utility's financial and management information systems; (d) to
investigate opportunities for privatization of some of its activities; (e) to
incorporate increased levels of safety and environmental acceptability in the
utility's design and operation practices;  and (f) to introduce demand-side
management including the promotion of electricity energy efficiency in the Thai
power sector.
C. Proiect Comoonents.
124.      The Distribution System Improvement and Expansion component will have
the following sub-components:
125.      Commitments for the expansion of MEA's distribution system over the
1992-1993 period comprising the following:
(a)   construction of subtransmission and distribution facilities
including:   (i) HV transmission substations and transmission
lines; (ii) HV/MV transmission and distribution substations and
associated lines; (iii) conversion from overhead to underground
distribution in heavily congested areas; and (iv) miscellaneous
equipment  and materials.    The  specific  components  of  the
distribution expansion program that would be financed from the
proposed Bank loan are given in para.126.
(b)   consulting  studies  on:  (i)  design  and  implementation  of
subsystems  in  the  integrated  financial  and  management
information system; (ii) formulation of strategies for
privatization   of   some   activities   of  MEA;   and   (iii)
environmental and safety considerations in system design.
126.      The following items have been identified for financing from the
proposed Bank loan:
Transmission Substations and Associated Transmission Lines:
(a)   Thanontok Substation (Transformers - 230/69 kV, 2x250 MVA). (ii)
South Thonburi - Thanontok, 230 kV, 10 km, double-circuit overhead
line.
(b)   South Thonburi Substation  A 200 MVA, 230/69 kV transformer will be
added at this substation.
(c)   Ratchada Substation (Transformers   230/69 kV, 2x200 MVA).  (ii)
Ratchada:  - Lardprao  (4.2 km);    - Tiamruammitr  (2.5 km);   -



TECHNICAL AM=E
Page 34 of 53
Suthisarn (2.5 km), underground 69 kV double-circuit transmission
lines.
Distribution Substations:
(a)   Bangrakyai (Transformers - 115/24 kV, 2x40 MVA).
(b)   Suansom (Transformers   69/12 kV, 2x40 MVA).
(c)   Krunai (Transformers - 69/12 kV, 2x40 MVA).
(d)   Ka-set (Transformers - 69/24 kV, 2x60 MVA).
(e)   Kingkaew  (Transformers - 115/24 kV, 2x60 MVA).
Overhead to Underground Conversion:
(a)   RatchadaRisek Project.    Ratchadapisek road is fast growing into
one of the busiest business-cum-residential areas of Bangkok.
Expansion and improvement of distribution services in this area
using overhead feeder construction is neither feasible nor
desirable.   MEA has, therefore, decided to convert the existing
overhead system (5.8 km line length serving a 12 sq. 'km. area) into
an underground one.
(b)   Pathumwan Project.      Pathumwan district is one of the fastest
growing business areas of Bangkok.   Expansion and improvement of
distribution services in this area using overhead feeder
construction  is neither feasible nor desirable.    Further,  the
Government has directed MEA to improve the aesthetics of this area
to promote tourism.   MEA has, therefore, decided to convert the
existing overhead system (6.6 km line length serving a 3.8 sq. km.
area) into an underground one.
Consulting Services:
(a)   Accounting and Financial System ExDansion.   Technical assistance
would provide consulting services to assist MEA in implementing
subsystems including project costing, revenue billing, payroll,
data and system management, business performance monitoring, and
annual planning and budgeting.
(b)   Privatization Strategies for MEA.   The objective of the consulting
study is to assist the Government and MEA by evaluatingr
opportunities for privatization. Specifically, consultants would
examine various options for privatization of selected MEA
activities, and would also review the possibility of and strategy
for joint public/private operations.   Based on a study of the
financial and other data available and an examination of MEA's
operations, the consultants would prepare a list of opportunities
for privatization of segments of MEA.
(c)   Environmental and Safety Considerations in System Design.   KEA's
expansion plans are becoming increasingly constrained, particularly
in the densely populated commercial areas of Bangkok where space is
at a premium. There is increasing public concern in terms of the
unsightly clutter of overhead networks, and for human safety due to



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 35 of 53
the proximity of live lines and substations in highly populated
busy areas.   The objective of the study is to enable KEA to
anticipate and react to concerns of environment acceptability and
safety, and to assist MEA to develop a conceptual plan to improve
the safety and environmental aspects of its system.   The study
would also investigate ways and means to reduce cost of underground
distribution systems.
D. IMDlementation.
127.      HEA  has  demonstrated  capability  in  the  execution  of  major
transmission/distribution  projects  and will be  fully  responsible  for the
implementation of the proposed project.   The project will be managed by the
Director of the Electrical Engineering and Project Department,  under the
supervision of the Deputy Governor, Technical and Planning.   Engineering and
design support will be provided by the Electrical Designs and Civil Department;
procurement activities will be managed by the Purchase and Stores Department in
coordination  with   the   Electrical  Engineering/Project   Department;   and
construction and installation will be undertaken by the Civil and Electrical
Construction Departments.
128.      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in
terms of physical execution and financial reports have been agreed with MEA,
whicd: will furnish quarterly progress reports.
129.      Supervision of this project will be undertaken along with the Bank's
ongoing projects in Thailand. The key issues that would be focused upon are:
(a) periodic reviews of MEA's investment plan in keeping with changes in the
economic scenario; (b) monitoring of compliance with financial covenants t'
assure the financial health of MEA while undertaking a large investment
program; and (c) adequate technical supervision for the project and the
consulting studies. The Bank missions would also assist MEA in institutional
development activities and provide advice on safety and environmental issues
whenever needed.
E. Environmental Aspects.
130.      MEA is an environment and safety conscious utility.  In spite of the
cost of underground distribution being almost 10 times that of overhead
construction, MEA has been undertaking projects to convert from overhead to
underground distribution in some of the busiest and fastest developing areas of
Bangkok.   It has three such projects in its Seventh Five Year Plan, two of
which will be financed from the proposed Bank loan.  straightforward and are
handled by MEA  staff earmarked  for this  purpose.    With  rapidly growing
infrastructural pressure, MEA will be facing increasing public concern with
regard to the unsightly clutter of overhead networks, and for human safety due
to the proximity of live lines and substations in highly populated busy areas.
MEA has agreed to undertake a consulting study to address some of these
concerns.   Polychloril biphenyls (PCBs) are banned in Thailand for use in
electrical equipment.   MEA has large storage dumps of PCBs from its old
equipment and it has recently contracted for the export of this stock to France
for destruction by a French waste management .irm.



TECHNICAL AN
Page 36 of 53
131.      The proposed project is not expected to have any significant adverse
impacts on the environment.   There is no resettlement of people expected
pursuant to the activities to be carried out under the Bank-financed components
of the project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that MEA would comply
with  the  Bank's  environmental  and  involuntary  resettlement  of  people
requirements as needed for the project. Environmental Impact Analyses prepared
by MEA were reviewed at appraisal for all the substations and transmission
lines that would be financed by the Bank, and were found to be acceptable.



TABLES AND FIGURES






TECHNTCALANE
Page 37 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Sector          Electricity Consumption                    Sector
(GWh)                    Consumption Characteristics
Industrial             11,319           Major Sectors:
Textiles       -   20% of total
Food Processing -   19%
Non-Metal      -   12%
Others         -   49%
Commercial              7,050           7,200 Large Buildings:  62% of total
199,000 Small Buildings: 38% of total
Residential             6,262           Urban: 66%
Rural: 34%
TOTAL                  24,631
TABLE 1: Electricity Use and Major Characteristics of Sectors (1987)
_                                      _            End Use Distribution
Sector         Percent     Lighting    Air   Refrigerator   Heating/   Motors   Others   Total
Distribution           Cond.  s              Cooking
Industrial      46%         10%        -                     =        80%       10%      100
Commercial      29%         31%      46%         -            -         -       23%      100
Residential     25%         21%       6%        21%         24%                 28%      100
TOTAL           100%
TABLE 2: Distribution of Electricity Consumption by Sector and End Use



TECHNICAT-NN
Page 38 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency
Residential Sector Programs
Refrigerators                            0         2        is       so       186
Air Conditioners                         0        10        20       40       117
Ughting                                 50       100      250       400       522
Residential Sub-Total                   50       112      285       520       825
Commercial Sector Programs
Lighting Retrofit                       10        50       100      150       215
New Commercial & Govt. Bldgs.           10        30       60       105       140
Commercial Sub-Total                    20        8o      160       255       355
Industrial Sector Program
Motors and Inverters                     4        10       70       110       225
Lighting                                 1         2         5       10        22
Industial Sub-Total                      5        12       75       120       247
TOTALS                                      75       204       520       695     1427
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ = 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
D1emancfvin
Residential Sector Programs
Refrgerators                             0      0.25         2       12        27
Air Conditioners                         0         2         4        8        22
Lighting                                10        20       50        80        95
Residential Sub-Total                   10    22.25        56       100       144
Commercial Sector Programs
Ughting Retrofit                       2.0      10.0      20.0      30.0     40.0
New Commercial & Govt. Bldgs.          1.5       4.5       9.0      15.0     20.0
Commercial Sub-Total                   3.5      14.5      29.0      45.0     60.0
Industrial Sector Program
Motors and Inverters                   0.6       1.4       9.5      15.0     30.0
Lighting                               0.2       0.4       1.0       2.0      4.0
Industnal Sub-Total                    0.8       1.8      10.5      17.0     34.0
TOTALS                                    14.3      38.5      95.5    162.0    238.0
TABLE 3: Demand Side Management Savings Targets



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 39 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
[Program Element   1993        1994       1995        1996    | 1997
Minimum             0.0         0.0        30.0        50.0       100.0
Standards IGWh)      _
Hi-Eff vs.          1.2         3.2        12.0        17.0       34.0
Standard (GWh)
Hi-Eff vs.          2.2         5.5        18.0        27.0       58.0
Rewind (GWh)
Cumulative          4.0        10.0        70.0       110.0      225.0
Energy
Impact IGWh)
Cumulative Peak     0.6         1.4         9.5        15.0       30.0
Impact (MW)    I_I_I_I_I
TABLE 4: Estimated Aggregate Program for High-Efficiency Motors and Variable Speed Drives



TECHNICAL ANNEX
THAILAND                                Page 40 of 53
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
New Commercial & Govemment Building Design Program
Building Type                      1993      1994       1995        1996      1997
Hotel                            1         2          3           5         7
Office, Large Priv.              5         9          6           9         11
Office, Small                    10        23         38          54        71
Retail, Large                    3         13         17          25        31
Retail, Small                    12        28         47          68        88
Government                       3         7          10          13        17
Energy Savings (GWh/year)        10        30         60          105       140
Demand Savings (Peak MW)         1.5       4.5        9.0         15        20
Commercial & Govemment Building Lighting Retrofit Program
Targets:                           1993      1994       1995        1996      1997
Agreements with ballast          .         Yes        Yes         Yes       Yes
manufacturers and importers
# of high efficiency ballasts    0         1000       1400        1900      2200
produced under manufacturer
incentive program (OOs)
# of completed lighting audit    40        200        400         600       1000
studies
# of large buildings with completed   8    50         100         150       250
lighting retrofits
Total number of commercial and   10        100        200         600       2000
governmental customers using
incentives
Annual Energy Saved (GWh)        10        50         100         150       215
Demand Savings (Peak MW)         2         10         20          30        40
TABLE 5: Commercial and Govemment Buildings Program: Program Targets and Energy and Demand
Savings



TECHNICAL ANNEX
THAILAND                           Page 41 of 53
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Description               Cost    Use    Savings   Baht/kWh
0.    Base Urnit                          0      492       0
Justification: EER = 2.8                  kWh
1.   Improved efficiency compressor       0     445    47 kWh         0
Justification: Improves efficiency        kWh
Model: EER --> 3.1                                                    l
2.    Increase insulation to 60 mm w/    B250    319   126 kWh       0.3
larger cabinet                            kWh
Justification: Reduces conductive
heat gains
Modeled: Insulation thickness -->
60 mm
3.    Change to 75 W compressor         -B15    309    10 kWh        -0.2
Justification: improves operation         kWh
COP through reduced cycling
Modeled: EER 3.1 --> 3.2
4.    Higher efficiency compressor       B65    267    42 kWh        0.2
Justification: Increases efficiency       kWh
Modeled: EER 3.2 --> 3.7
5.    Improved for R/F door              B45    261      6 kWh       1.0
Justification: Reduces thermal            kWh
losses
Modeled: Gasket thermal losses
halved
6.    State-of-the-art small compressor    B200    214    47 kWh    0.56
Justification: Increases efficiency       kWh
Modeled: EER 3.7 --> EER 4.5
7.    Top mount unit compressor,         B50    208      6 kWh       1.1
locate condenser coils on exterior        kWh
Justification: Reduces
temperature around cabinet
Modeled: Ambient Temp 100 OF -
> 98 OF
8.    60 mm --> 75 mm of insulation     B200    183    25 kWh        1.05
Justification: Reduces conductive         kWh
heat gains
Modeled: Insulation thickness -->
75 mm
TABLE 6: Typical Refrigerator Desian ImDrovement Options for Residential Sector



TECHNICAL ANNEX
THAILAND                                       Page 42 of 53
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
i  i                                 Energy        Cumul
Incr. Cost Total Cost       EER       Use      payback
Design Option                          j    (bsht)      (baht)  (BtuhJW)  (kWh/yr)J       (years)
Baseline                                             4875.00         7.4      2175
Slit Fins and Grooved Tubes               135.00     5010.00          8.1     1987         0.49
increase Evap Frontal Area by 20%         50.00      5060.00         8.3      1939         0.54
10.0 EER compressor                      250.00      5310.00         9.3      1731         0.87
10.5 EER Compressor                       125.00     5435.00          9.8     1842         0.72
increase Evap Frontal Area by 1 1%        50.00      5485.00          9.9     1e2e         0.78
Increase Condenser Tube Rows by 1        200.00      5685.00        10.2      1578         0.93
11.0 EER Compressor                      400.00      8085.00        10.7      1504         1.24
Increase Cond Frontal Area by 33%        450.00      8535.00        11.0      1463         2.28
TABLE 7: Typical Air Conditionig Design Improvement Options for Residential Sector'
' Key Assumptions: Capacity remains constant; Operational use remains constant at 902 hours/year: Electricity cost = 2.0 Baht/kWh;
Menufactureres Markup - 1.375; Baseline Unit Consumption - 2175 kWh/year



TECHNICAL ANNEX
THAILAND                                         Page 43 of 53
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Replacement
Lamp                   Lamp          Lamp Ufe    Total lampa    Lamps                   lamps and
Replace-     Watts   sales/yr        x growth    in Systam      on at    Lampa on      ballasts        Peek MW
ment         Saved   I108)           factor       1997 (10')    Night    at Peak        (millional     Saved
2oW-18W      2         18.0          3.6          84.8          0.4      0.35          6.0             12.7
Fluor.                               _ _ _ _ _ _                          _ _ _ _ _ _
40W-36W      4         16.0          3.6          57.6          0.4      .30           5.5             19.0
Fluor.
18W low-     5         18.0          3.6          64.8          0.4      .30           9.0             38.9
ioss ballast
36W low-     5         16.0          3.6          57.6          0.4      .3            8.0             34.5
loss ballast
2x 11W       9         2.2           3.0          6.6           1.0      .35           2.5             20.0
CFL for
Circline_
11WCFL       14                      1.0          1.0           1.0      1.0           1.0             14.0
for25
incand.
TOTAL                                                                                                  139.0
TABLE 8: Summary of Lighting Program'
' Estimates of peak replacement lamps include residential, commercial and industrial sectors.



TECHNICAL ANE
Page 44 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion Of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Program                                           |   Total Resource Cost*
Benefit to Cost Ratio
RESIDENTIAL SECTOR PROGRAMS
Refrigerators                                                  6.85
Air Conditioners                                               9.89
Lighting Retrofit                                              2.00
COMMERCIAL AND GOVERNMEMT PROGRAMS
Lighting Retrofit                                              2.00
New Buildings                                                  2.60
Industrial Sector Programs
Lighting                                                       2.00
Motor Systems                                                  3.60
* Total Resource Costs include:
Utility DSM program administrative costs
DSM program financial incentives
Customer costs or measure costs not covered by financial incentives
TABLE 9: Cost Effectiveness Screening Calculations



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 45 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
1. Investment in DSM Programs              US$189 million
2. Long Run Marginal Cost of Energy         US$0.057/kWh
3. Cost of DSM Saved Energy                 USS0.017/kWh
4. DSM Savings                              US$0.040/kWh
5. Total DSM Savings                        US$57.1 mililion
(1,427 cumulative GWh x USS0.040/kWh)
6. Annual Fuel Oil Savings                 436 million liters
7. Annual C2 Savings                       1.16 million tons
8. Cost of Reducing Greenhouse Gas
Emissions                               -US$50/ton CO2
1.427 cumulative GWh x -US$0.040/kWh
1.16 x million tons of C02
TABLE 10: Summary of Benefits of Five-Year DSM Program, 1993-1997



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 46 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Categorization of Procurement Items
(US$ million)
Estimated cost:
Total    Goods        Goods         Incentives   Services    Tech. Anat.               AdAin.
(Concessionally                             Training
Given Out)                               & Consult.
Project Implementation
Residential Sector
Lighting                        65.5         2          55.5              3             5           -                    -
Aireon. & Ref.                    8.5        -            -               7.5           1           -                    -
Commercial Sector
Lightins                        27.9         1          22.9              1             3           -                    -
Buildings                        11.2        1           2                2             6.2         -                    -
Industrial Sector
Motor Systms                    17.8         1            1              13.8           2           -                    -
Lighting                          1          -           -                -             1           -
Laboratory and Testing end
Monitoring Equipment               4          4            -               -             -           -
Technical Assistance                   4           -           -                -            -            4                   -
Training                               5           -           -                -            -            5                   _
Public Relations                       9           -           -                -            8            -                   I
DSM Administration
Salaries & Office Set Up            12          -            -                -            -            -                  12
Computer System                      2          2            -                -            -           -                    -
Vehicles                             1           1           -                -            -            -
Program Monitoring & Evaluation    8.6             -           -                -            6.1          2.5                 -
Contingencies                         11.5         1           1                2            5            1                   1.5
Total                                189.0       13           82.4             29.           7.3                             14.5
Table 11: Categorization of Procurement Items



Page 47 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency
Energy Savings by Sector
Industrial Sector
17%
-    Residential Sector
Commercial Sector                                                 58%
25%
Cummulative Energy Savings by 1997 = 1,427 GWh per Year
Peak Capacity Savings by Sector
Industrial Sector
Commercial Sector
25%
Residential Sector
68%
Cummulative Peak Capacity Avoided by 1997=238MW
FIGURE 1: Energy and Peak Capacity Savings by Sector



TECHNICAL ANNEX
THAILAND                          Page 48 of 53
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Industrial DSM Program Design
Program Marketing
Industrial Processes
Motors Component                                        mponent
Old Motor          FNw Motor                               actory Audit IFree) ,
Rewind      8      High Efficiency Motor
(Rowind Shop            Financial Incentive
Certification)   JDsg   bIy10
Design Study (50
paid by Program)
Process Efficiency Project
Financial Incentive
I Motor Efficiency Testing              Monitoring and
FGUR  2:nsLab                             Evaluation P
FIGURE 2: Industrial DSM Program Schematic



TECHNICAL ANNEX
THAILAND                          Page 49 of 53
Promotion Of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
End-Use Breakdown for a Prototypical
Thai Office Building
Vert.
Transport
Misc.    7%
6 %            ,-Cooling
t:            2~~~9%
Air
46%ting                    v    Movement
46%                -~ 12%
End-Use Breakdown for a Prototypical Thai
Retail Building
Vert.
Transport
Misc.   5%
4%                     Cooling
v 5%       \    23%
Air Movement
5%
Lighting
63%
FIGURE 3: Commercial Sector Prototypical Building Analysis



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 50 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
Ofce of the
Prime Minister
Ministry             Ministry             Ministry Of
Industr                ST&E                Intrior
{UTSID           TISTR          DEDP       t     2
(Q(I   Universities
NEPC: National Energy Policy Council
FTI: Federation of Thai Industries
FIGURE 4: Thailand Energy Institutions



THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
General
Manage
Corporate            Ther-ml           and            Power Pnt         Trnml  on         Account and       Aditrtlon
Management           Power and      Tranendeslon       Operatdons           Sstem             Flnance
Mine           System                              Operatlon                        [r~
Developnment    Deeopnt
DSM
Organization
Oq
I D
0
FIGURE 5: Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand IEGAT), Organizational Structure
and Location of DSM  Organization



THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
(  Director       )
Panning          Program Design a          rgy Conservatio         echnology and       Administration and
Monitoring &            Delivery                                      Standards              Contracts
Evaluation
Planning             Training and             DSM              _     Testing and          Budget and
Support                Information             Standards            Reporting
Monitoring &     -    Residential          Marketing                  ee                  Contracts
Evaluation                                   MreigDevelopmentCotas
Commerclal              Public          -    Demonstration          Procurement
Relations
Industrial                                                          Incentive
Payments D                    d
oq 
FIGURtE 6: DSM Organization Structure                                                                                            ;
Lu>



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 53 of 53
THAILAND
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project
TASK NAME                 1993         1994         19             9619 
Training:
Conferences
.Marketing
Computers
. Evaluation:.
DSM Program Design
*Project Management
Technical
Program Design
Residential Sector.
Commercial Sector
Industrial Sector
Evzf. & Database Maintenence
Testing and Standards
Technical Standards
Laboratories
Building Codes
Integrated Resource Planning
Environ. Resource Account.ng
DSM Program Operation _
Residential Sector
Efficient Refrigerators          _
Efficient Air Conditioners
Lighting
Commercial Sector
Lighting Retrofit
New Buildings
Industrial Sector           I_
Motor Systems
F Lighting 7 I          Schedule
Process Evaluations                                                                              ._ _____.- _ i- ::1-
IDSM  Staffing                           1       ;;        ;;;;;;                       ;; 
FIGURE 7: Implementation Schedule












l



    Printed on recycled paper



