Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-Al- èZ~C-d/V
Report No, 11370-M
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SOUTHE    JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
PROJECT
FERARY 16, 1993
fT2CFLjFICHE LOJP',
feepo- t          7. :1 17--CH,   1ype:  St4)
Ti t l e:  SCJI1 HE?RN J I C1 4'  ENY I RENTNL
Aulthor: 51        L u 1  ,E  I  V!NM,T
E 't. :t H452 Rcom: A90 7-  Dfzt. IEcC1E
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document ha a restricted distibudon and may be used by recpiens only in the performance of
their officlid dutes. Its contents may nmt othese be dicosed witon Word Rank authrizaition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTIS
(as of October 1992)
Currency Name  -  Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  =  Yuan (Y)
I Yuan  =  100fen
Y 1.00  =  $0.18
$1.00  =  Y5.50
RSCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)  =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)  =  3.28 feet
i square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (mi)  =  35.3 cubic feet
i kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)  =  10,000 square meters  =   15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.204 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)  =  1,000,000 watts
1 gigajoule (GJ)  =  1 billion (109) joules



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIB      China Investment Bank
CMG    Changzhou Municipal Government
COD      Chemical Oxygen Demand
CUSC    Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPB      Environmental Protection Bureau
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GOC      Government of China
GVIO    Gross Value of Industdal Output
ICB      Intenaional Competitive Bidding
HMEC Hazardous Material Emergency Response Center
JEPB    Jiangsu Environmental Protection Bureau
JGF      Japanese Grant Facility
JMRC Jiangsu Solid and Hazardous Waste Management and Registration Cente
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LPG      Liquefied petroleum gas
MEAD   Municipal Engineering Admistration Division
MEI      Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program
MEPUB Municipal Engineering and Public Utilities Bureau
MOF    Ministry of Finance
NEPA    National Environmental Protection Agency
ODA      Overseas Development Administration
PMO      Project Management Office
SAA      State Audit Administration
SEPC    State Environmental Protection Commission
SMG      Suzhou Municipal Government
SOE      Statement of Expenritures
TBA      Taihu Basin Authority
TCC      Technical Cooperation Credit
TVIE    Township and viUlage industrial enterprise
WEPB Wuxi Environmental Protection Bureau
WMG    Wuxi Municipal Government
WMRC  Wuxi Hazardous Waste Management and Regitration Center
WMSC Wuxi Hazardous Materials Storage and Trading Company
WDC    Wuxi Drainage Company
ZMG    Zhenjiang Municipal Government
ZWSDC Zhenjiang Water Supply and Drainage General Company
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by mtpients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherws be disecosed without World Bank authoriation.



CHINA
SOU TX ERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
11:mwm         Peoples Republic of China
ialagsu Province and the Municipalities of Suzhou, Wuxi, Changhou and
Zhejianlg
Aamua_t        $250 million
_:M           120 years, inlUuding five years of grace, at the Bank's standad variable
ineest rate
Teuss         Preeds of the loan for the municipal componns ($246.5 miion) would
be relt to the four project cities by Jiangu Province. Ihe municipalities
would in tum rend the proeeds: (a) to the industi subproject entities:
at the Bans sandard variable interest rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per
aum, with the iustrial enterprises bearing the commitment charges and
tw foreign exchange risks; the grace period would be up to 3 years, and the
marity up to 10 years and 7 years, respectvely, for large-scale subprojects
and for small-scale subprojects and township and village indust  eneprise
(IVE subprojects; and (b) to the municipal sewerage companies and the
Wuui Hazardous Material Storage and Trading Company: for fifteen years,
Iluding five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable intest rate,
with the entitles bearing the commitment charges and foreign exchange risks.
D     0:lh    TDe proposed project would assist the local authorities in Southern Jiangsu
to srentheir envirvnimental plaming and management capabilities, and
to cry out priority initiatives in the regional environmenal strategy and
actio plans in an efficient and effective manner. Ihe main project
componet would comprise: (a) a line of credit for larg-sce idustial
polutin contol subprojects in the urban areas of Suzhou, Wuxi, Changsz
and Zhenjlang; smal-scale ixdusi   pollution control subprojects and pilot
TVIE e    on       management subprojects in Greater Suzhou and Wui
O) construction of municipal facilities for urban wastewate management in
Wuxi, Changzou and Zhenjiang; (c) establisme  of solid and hazardous
waste management and registation centers i Jiangsu and Wuxi) and a
hawdous material emergency response center in Wuxi, and constuction of
a bhardo    materW  storage and   ipment fcilities In Wud; and
(4)tecnl assistance and traig for the provincial and municipal



- ii -
environmental protection bureaus, municipal sewerage companies, hazardous
material storage company and the industrial subproject finalcial agent (China
Investment Bank, Jiangsu Branch).
BIenebts:       The proposed project would significantly mitigate environmental degradation
and result in both economic and social benefits for Southern Jiangsu, an atea
of particularly serious and concentrated water pollution, largely of industrial
origin. Specifically, the industrial subprojects have been designed to achieve
both pollution reduction and improvements in operational efficiency through
technological upgrading, waste minimizatlon/reuse and, as appropriate,
product upgrading. These subprojects would effectively integrate both
enviromnental and economic objectives. Further, water pollution control at
industrial sources would translate into reduced costs for water treatment and
urban water supply. In addition, health benefits would accrue from the
reduction of water-borne diseases and control of toxic/lhazardous wastes.
Moreover, Improved water quality under the project would benefit irrigation,
navigation, land value and tourism in the region. Finally, the project would
contribute to the sustainability of environmental management in the region
through the demonstration of cost-effective pollution control measures,
strengthening of local capabilities in the monitoring and enforcement of
environmenta regulations, corporatization of the sewerage utilities and the
establishment of a sound cost recovery policy for these pollution abatement
services.
Ricsk:          To reduce risks of delay in implementation of the project, which covers
multiple cities, sectors and agencies, agreement has been obtained from
Jian8su to ensure an ade'juate and timely flow of local ca * trpart funding,
as well as satisfactory arrangements for project managei ., including the
maintenance of project management offices at both the provincial and
municipal levels. Further, the requisite technical assistance and training in
project implementation would be provided under the project. Much work,
beyond that of the present proposed project, would still be required before
the long-term goals of environmental improvement can be reached.
However, in view of the commitment by the provincial and municipal
governments to implement a comprehensive environmental strategy and action
plans, including measures to improve the enabling environment for pollution
abatement, efforts to continue environmental protection work are expected to
be sustained.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                                 Lma       EwPgn
~~ ($ million)
Industrial pollution control components
Largescale subprojects                       154.2       159.8    314.0
Small-scale subprojects                        5.0         5.0     10.0
TVYE subprojects                              14.0        14.0     28.0
Wastwater management                           34.4        25.1     59.5
Hazardous waste management                      4.3         3.7      7.9
Technical assistance and traiming               5.8         3.7      8.8
EPB monitoring and traing equipment             0.3         0.7       1.0
Land acquisition and relocation                 2.7         0.0      2.7
Totl Base Cost                            207_        211.2    430
Physical cortingencies                         22.3        21.1     43.4
Price contingencies                            39.8        35.4     75.2
Totl  niect  La                            282         267.7    SSO 
Inteest dUring Constuctionlk                    4.6        32.8     37.4
Total Financing    red                     27.4        305    58 0
n    Plan:
Goverrments                                    46.6         9.4     56."
Enterprises                                   218 9        63.1    282.0
IBRD                                           22.u       228.0    250.0
otal                                       287.4       300 5    a58.
Etmated Disbursents:
Bank FY          1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
($ million)
Annul            10.4  48.3  105.3   47.7   26.3    9.9    1.7    0.4
Cumulative       10.4  58.7  164.0  211.7  238.0  247.9  249.6  250.0
Eonomic Rate
of Return:    Sewerage components-16 percent on average (14 percent for Zhenjiang,
16 percent for Wuxi and 17 percent for Changzhou)
La Project is exempt from import duties and taxes.
/b Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements
of loan proceeds. The foreign currency portion of IDC is based on the Bank loan
variable rate.
& Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- iv -
CONTENTS
1  lbeEirlronmentalSector ........... ...............                              1
A.  Enviromental Conditions in China      ..........................           1
B.  Institudonal Framework  1................................. 
C.  Cina's Approaches to Pollution Problems . ......................           2
D.  Key Sectoral Issues and Constraints  .........................             3
E.  Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy .........     ...............        4
2  Evironmental Manaement In Southern Jiangsu .         ..................        6
A.  Background .....................................                           6
B.  Environmentd Conditions in Southemn Jiangsu  .. .................    7
C.  Envirornental Strategy and Action Plans .........     ..............    7
3     e  roject .....................................                             12
A.  Rationale for Bank Participation ...      ........................    12
B.  Project Objectives ...................................                    12
C.  Project Description ...................................                   13
D.  P.oject Organization and Management       ........................    19
E.  Project mplemenaionSchedule    ............................    19
F.  Project Cost Esimates .................................                   21
G.  Project Financing .................................                       22
H.  Procurement ...................................                           22
I.  Disbursement .................................                            25
J.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement    ..........................    25
IL  Environental Impact Assesment ...........................    26
L.  Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision ...................    26
M. Project Sustainability .................................    27
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to China in February 1992, an
appraisal mission In June 1992, and a postappraisal mission in September 1992. The report was
prepared by S. Shum (Senior Financial Analyst, Task Manager), D. Brown (Principal Industrial
Speciist), R. Chalk (Senior Paper Engineer Specialist), H. Chau (Operations Officer), A.
Somaoi (Environmental Specialist), R. Heath (Principal Chemical Engineer), S. Wang
(Operations Officer), C. Zhang (Environmental Engineer), J. Kirke (Sanitary Engineer,
Consultant), Y. Wang (Environmental Specialist, Consultant) and C. Wu (Environmeni
Engineer, Consultant). Assistance in procurement and disbu nt aspects was provided by
M. Ashraf (Senior Operations Officar) and H. Zhang ( ions Officer). Tbh. peer reviewers
were N. Anderson (Senior Project Officer), R. Batstone (Principal Environmental Specialist),
A. Nassau (Senior Financial Analyst), G. Plant (Senior Sanitary Engine) and 0. Read (Senior
Municipal Engineer). The Acting Division Chief is Z. Khan (EA2. The Department Director
is S. 1. Burki (EA2DR).



4     me Beneciaries  ........................................                                 28
A.  Project Municipalities  ............................                        ..         28
B.  Institutional Framework for Environmental Management ......                .......    28
C.  Wastewater ManagementOrganzation  ...........                  .......                 29
D.  Hazardous Material StorageOrganization  ......................    30
5   FlnancialAspects ........................................                                  31
A.  Financial Management of Enterr2ries   .........................    31
B. Accunting                                      ..                                       31
C. Audits    ..............                              ..............   32
D.  FinancesofMunicipal Governments  ..........              ..        .............    32
E. Financing of Enviromental Protection Investments                    .        .          33
F.   Financial Covenants ........ ..........                  ..................           34
G.  Finances of Sewerage Companies  ...........             ..       ..............    34
H.  Finances of Hazardous Material Storage and Trading Company .... .....    37
1.   Finances of Industri  Pollution Control Subprojects  ......             .........    37
6   Economic, Sodal and Environmental Consideration  .................    38
A.  Project Justification        .................           .................             38
B.  Project Benefits         ..................            ....................            38
C.  Industrial Pollution Control Components .........           ..      ............    39
D.  Urban Wastewatera Manement Components .......                 ..      ...........    39
E.  Project Riskcs        ...................            .....................             40
7   Agreements Reahed and Recommendation  .......................    41
ANNMxS
1    Water and Air Quality Standards in China  ........................    45
2    Environmental Improvement Monitors ...........................    47
3    Southern Jiangsu Environmental Strategy and Action Plans ..............    51
4    Operating Procedures of Environmental Revolving Funds ...............    85
5    Proposed Industi  Pollution Control Subprojects ....................    88
6  Urban Wastewater Management Components ...... 102
7    Urban Wastewater Management Component -  Terms of Reference -
Project mplementadon Consultants .............................   110
8    LandAcquisitionandRelocation  ..............................   114
9    Hazardous Waste and Material Management in Southern Jiangsu  ....               ......   119
10 Hazardous Waste Maagement and Registration Center - Terms of
Reference for Technical Assistance   ...........         ..        ...............   126
11   Monitoig Equipment            ..................           ...................    133
12   Training Program         ...................            .....................    135
11   Dtaled Project Cost Estimts  ...............                     ................   152
14   DlsbusementSchedule  ....................................    160
15   Indicative Supervision Plan  ............................                               161
16  Municipal Finances  .................................   165



- vi -
ANNEN3 (cont'd)
17  Sources %J Funds for Environmental Protection .....................   170
18  FinancW Projections-Municipal Sewerage Companies          ...............  177
19  Sewerage Tariff Study-Terms of Reference ..       ....................   193
20  Financial Projections - Hazardous Material Storage and Trading Company ....    196
21  Economic Analysis of Proposed Sewerae Components .......        .........  200
22  Selected Do.uments and Data Available in Project File ....... ........    211
1   Organization for Environmental Protection in China  .     ...........  213
2   COD Discharge With and Without the Project .......... ............  214
3   Organization Chart of Suzhou Municipality .......  .................   215
4   Orgmization Structe of Changzhou EPB        ........... ...  216
5   ProjectOffice Organization ..................................   217
6   CrganizatIon Cba of Wuxi Drainage Company ......... ............  218
7   Organization Chart of Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company ........ ... .     219
8   Organization Chart of Zhenjiang Water Supply and Drainage Corporadon .....  220
9   Organization Chart of Wuxi Hazardous Material Storage and
Trading Company      .................. .....................   223
10  Implement$ton Schedule of Urban Wastewater Management Component .....  224
11 Implementation Schedule of Hazardous Material Storage and
Tranpshiment Component ................           ..................   227
TABLEs IN TExT
3.1   Project Costs Summary  .............................    20
3.2   Project Financing Plan ..............................    22
3.3   Procureient Arrangements .         . .........................    24
5.1   Municipal Sewerage Companies: Key Finacial and Opeating
Indicator  ..............................................   35
MAPs
IBRD No. 24512, 24513, 24514, 24515 - Water Quality Indicators In Suzhou, Wuxi,
Changzhou and Zhenjian.-



1
TIlE ENVIRONMNTAL SECTOR V
A. ENVIRONMETAL CONDmONS IN CHIA
1.1          Growing urban population and industralization are causing widespread pollution
in China, and enviromnental problems have become a ceral issue in Chinese cities. Water
pollution poses the most severe problem and direcy affects human health. Many important
water resources, which are already scarce in most regions, have been seriously threatened.
Further, few countries are as dependent on coal as China, with anmual consumption of about
i billion tons. The combustion of bituminous coal is causing serious atmospheric pollution from
airborne particulate and sulfur dioide emissions in many industrial areas. Moreover, growing
toxicJhzadous wastes are not effectively controlled and are emerging as a serious evtironmental
problem. In the absence of adequate enviromv'ntal management programs, increasinly severe
environmental degradation has serious raunifictat is, including health hazards and undermining
of sustainable development in the longer run.
1.2          The Chinese authorities are increasingly aware of the need to address
environmental problems and recent officW policy calls for economic development to proceed in
tandem with environmental protection. The government's good intention notwithstanding, there
temains considerable scope for improvements in integrating environmental management
effectively into macroeconomic policies and economic development plans. In this connection,
there are ample opportunities for economic and enterprise reforms as well as sound investments
which meet both environmental and economic objectives, as exemplified by the proposed project.
However, there are also important instances in which economic and environmental objectives
conflict to some extent. In particular, increased energy and raw materi4 production is both a
corollary of economic growth and a major source of pollution. Further, some of the priority
cleanup programs are, by nature, not economically productive. As a result, environmeal
protetion objectives are often compromised by the scarcity of natural and financial resources.
Thus, the Chinese authorities are faced with the challenge to formulate a coherent development
strategy which would strike an appropriate balance between the two often conflicting objectives
of economic development and enironmental protection.
B. INSTnTTONAL FUAMEWORK
1.3          China has an insfitutional framework in place that can be used as a foundation
in designing approaches for dealing with environmental and ecological problems. The State
Envionmental Protection Commission (SEPC), which includes the heads of all relevant
1/    FOr detaled disusion pleas 8e 'Ch0  Environmental Statey PPe? (Report No. 9669-
CHA. April 1992).



- 2-
ministlies and agencies, and ultimately the State Council are at the apex of decision-making on
envronmental policy in Cnina.  SEPC provides policy diection at times and resolves
inte.agency disputes, but it meets only quarterly and hence canmot regularly set overall policy.
Thu commission relies heavily on its secretariat, the National Environmental Protection Agency
(NEPA) which was established in 1979. Ihis agency is resposible for all aspects of
envionmental policy, although It shares authority with other agencies for certain specific natural
resources. NEPA lialses with the environmentl protection units within most of the ministries
and state enterprises, and sets the overall policies and regulations governing the provincial and
municipal environmentel protection bureaus (EPBs). Chart I presents the institutionc' framework
for environmental protection in China.
1.4          Most environmental protection policy is implemented at the subnational level.
Provinces are responsible for implementing national policy and are authorized to act in the
absence of preemptive national standards; where waranted by local conditions, they may also
impose more stingent standards than those required by the national govermnent. In all
provinces and municipalites and in most counties around the country, environmental protection
bureaus have been established under local environmental commissions headed by a deputy
govror or deputy mayor. The municipal, urban district and county EPBs are the basic units
responsible for ensuring compliance with environmental regulations and standards within their
respective jurisdictions. They also collect pollution charges from enterprises, except those
owned by the provincial or central governments, in which case the pollution charges are
and used by the provincial EPBs.
1.5          Several central government ministries are concerned with water quality and water
polution control, and they support NEPA in carrying out its environmental protection work.
As an example. the Ministry of Water Conservancy is responsible for determining policies on
the allocation and management of surface water resources in the country. Its policies are
mp@lemented through river basin commissions, provincial water conservancy departments and
war conservancy bureaus at various local government levels. The Mvlinistry of Geology and
Minerals and the corresponding local government departments and bureaus are responsible for
allocation and management of groundwater. The Ministry of Construction is responsible for
urban and regional planning, and infrastructure development planning at the national level. It
provides guidance to the provinces on land use planning and ifiastructure development,
including urban water supply and sewerage. The Ministry of Public Hea'th is responsible for
providing guidance to local public health bureaus on drinking water quality regulations.
C. C     *J APPROACHE  TO POLLUTION PROBLEMS
1.6         In recent years, the Central Government and local authorities have taken greater
initiadves to improve the environment. Since 1979, China has enacted a comprehensive set of
enviroental laws, regulations and standards. Water and air pollution control regulations were
introduced in China in '979 and 1988, respectively. Ihe Chinese standards for water and air
quality ate summarized in Mm 1. Solid waste legislation, including toxic and hazardous
wastes, is still in the draft stage.
1.7          The Chinese Environmental Protection Law and ancillary regulations erphasize
'prevenontfirst' (including requirements for environmental impact assessments (EIAs) on new
projects) and "polluter pays principle* (including fees, fines and compensation payments). With
a view to achieving its environmental goals, the country has adopted an eclectic assortment of



- 3 -
cormmand-and-control and incentive methods. Command-and-control approaches include EIAs;
Integrationof environmentl protection measures at project design, construcdor and opeational
stages (the "three simultaneous actions" system); relocation of industry away from densely
populated urban areas; requirements for low-polluting technologies In selected Industries;
centralized treatnentt of wastes; vehicle inspection programs; and a system of responsibility
contracts (with both voluntary and binding agreements with industrial enterprises and
municipalities to achieve environmental targets). Economic incentive approaches include a
pollution levy system (the principal method); taxes on polluting inputs; and tax incentives. In
addition, a system of standards and permits is the basis for the pollution monitoring and control
program.
D. KEY SECwORAL ISSUES AND CoNSnrAINS
1.8          While China has taken a major step in the right direction for the control of
pollution from new projects, much improvement is still needed in enforcing these requirements.
In particular, ElAs are often performed too late to influence project approval, location and
design, and aie too narrow in scope (project-speeific rather than region-specific). For existing
polluters, financing constraints and access to low waste technologies are major hindrances to
acelerating the pace of pollution abatement.
1.9          Current industrial cleanup measures include mostly end-of-pipe treatment.
Insuff:cient consideration is given to more efficient and economical methods for reducing
pollution through recycling, process modification, and the use of less polluting inputs. Often
whe.n it is realized that technological upgrading is the preferred solution, lack of financial
resources, especiallv foreign exchange, is an impediment. In many cases when highly polluting
factories are relocated (a process which is tantmou  to closing an existing factory and
constructing a new one), the same industrial process is used in order to take advantage of old,
existing equipment, and technological changes are deferred until funds become wvailable.
1.10         A pollution levy system that imposes penalties for exceeding nadonal (or local)
standards has been introduced in China to deter pollution. However, the present fee is set
considerably below the marginal cost of treatment to meet the effluent standards, and most
enterprises pay the fee rather than investing in treatment facilities. While the level of the levies
was increased by about 40 percent in 1991, it remains inadequate. Further, there are
shortcomings in the present structure of the pollution levy system. Ihus, the EPBs have to
resort to administrave measures to compel the enterprises to bring their pollution discharge
level into compliance with the standards. In the wake of deepening enterprise reforms and
increased decision-making at the enteprise level (para. S.1), both the levels and structure of the
pollution levies need to be adjusted to provide greater financial incentves to the enterprises to
protect the evironment.
1.11         Pollution levies are the major source of funds for environmental protectior.
Approximately 20 percent of the levy is retained by the local EPBs to cover their operaing costs
and the balance (80 percent) is reflowed to indusria enterprises for financing pollution
abatement measurss. However, the demand for pollution control funding far exceeds the
amous available from the levies at the current level of charging and collection. While the
efficiency of levy collection in the municipalities generally is high, collection efficiencies in rural
county areas are often less ta 50 percent.



-4-
1.12         The Chinese authorities are aware of the above problems. The environmental
agenda of the 1990s calls for enhancement in the formulation, monitoring and enforcement of
the pollution levies. In this connection, a complete review of the levy charging, collection, and
allocation system is being undertaken by NEPA with the assistance of international consultants
under a Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) financed study. The objective of the study Is to design
a system which would be more consistent with the polluter-pays principle and reduce the
administaive burden on the EPBs through Improvements in economic and financial mechanisms
for environmental management. Recommendations emerging from this study would be
implemented first on a pilot basis in selected cities, including Changzhou in Southern Jiangsu.
Effective implementation of the pollution levy system would enhance the financial incentives for
pollution control and increase mobilization of resources for environmental protection.
1.13         Much needs to be done to improve the environment, but financing constrains
will probably impede pollution control for at least a decade. Therefore, the real issues are: (a)
how to increase mobilization of resources for the sector; (b) how to utilize the scarce resources
efficiently and effectively to address priority problems; and (c) how to improve environmental
policy, the economic system and government bureaucracy to maximize pollution prevention and
control efforts.
E. BANK ROLE AND SEcrOR LENDING STRATEGY
1.14         Most environmental problems, especially pollution problems, are best tackled at
the municipal and regional level because individual sources of environmental degradation and,
therefore, appropriate solutions, will vary. These correspond to the principal centers of
economic investment decisions. It is also around these levels of government that China's
nWviro_nntal policies and institutions are centered. Thus, it is at the municipal and regional
levels that the Bank's comparative advantage can be used most effectively. As industry is by
far the main source of pollution in the country, the Chinese authorities have accorded the highest
priority to environmental protection in targeted industriized cities and regions, including the
Southern Jiangsu region where the proposed project is located.
1.15         Environmental-related sector work carried out by the Bank has inOluded: (a) an
urban sector survey in Liaoning Province in 1985 in cooperation with the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Australian Iternational Development Assistance
Bureau (AIDAB); (0) an urban sector study in Zhejiang Province (Report No. 6612-CHA),
August 3, 1987; (c) a study of the efficiency and environmental impact of coal use in China
(Report No. 8915-CHA); March 20, 1991; and (d) an environmental strategy paper for China
(Report No. 9669-CHA), April 1992. This paper identifies major environmental issues and their
underlying causes, assesses China's policies and institutional capabilities for addressing td em,
recommends areas for improvement, and proposes a multi-year program of environmental
assistance. Ihis would incmde a series of environmental operations, including the proposed
project.
1.16         In addition, various environmental studies are in progress: (a) four studies under
the Global Environmntal Facility (GEF) related to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions,
loss of biodiversity in China and ozone-depleting susbtances (ODS); and (b) under the JGF-
financed technical ass stance program to NEPA, there are five national studies covering the
environmentl impact assessment process, waste minimizaton/pollution control in rural
industries, hazardous/toxic waste management, economic/financial mechanisms for environmental



-5-
management (ps. 1.12) and nvironmental Information mnagement system  Finally, under
the Metropolita Envlromental Improvement Progm (MEIP) financed by UNDP and the
Bank, Beijing Municpality regularly exchanges lnfbrmadon on environmental manangement and
technology with fior other Asian member cities.
1.17         Ite Beijing Environmental Project (Credit 2312/Loan 3415) and the Ship Waste
Disposal Project (Credit 2391 and GEF Grant TF28613) were the first two freestanding
enviromenal operations in China which were recendy approved by the Bank. In addition, the
Bank has been involved in five projects in the urban and water supply/sanitation sctors in China
which are also related to pollution control. These projects, which are now being Implemented
satsfctorily, are: (a) Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1779), project Wompletion is epected
in end-1994; (b) Medium-sized Cities Development Project (Credit 2201/Loan 3286);
(c) Lanng Urban Infastructure Project (Credit 2219); (d) Tlajin Urban Development and
Envionment Project (Credit 2387); and (e) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit
2336). Despite the complexity of these ongoing projects, and the init  unfamiliaty of project
officials with Bank requirements, work progres   saisfatory. The conmm  dements of good
practices learned under these projects include: (a) commiment of the municipal auithorities
concerned to implement the projects; (b) strong project management offices (PMOs) with
adequate staff to provide the requisite coordination among multiple agencies; and (c) thorough
project preparation based an detailed feasibility studies prepared by competent agencies and
coultants, well-repared bidding documents and technical specifications.
1.18         Bank participation in the environeal sector in China would contine to focus
on the following aspects:  (a) development of  pwpriate staegies for impwving and
maintaining the quality of the environment (these would seek to optimize total benefis, including
those from opporties to improve the efficiency of industri production and the use of natural
resources); (b) prioridzation of the measures for environmental improvement, identification and
preparation of plans for the most cost-ective investments; (c) financing high priority
ivestmens that will produce envioen  benefits in the short term; (d) strengthening the
i_tnstitut   responsble for enforcing envionmental protection regulations, as well as those that
operate community systems for environmen  pollution abatement; and (e) promotn sound
financidal and cost recovery policies to mtain healtiy qperation of pollution abatement services.



-6-
2
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN SOUTHERN
JIANGSU
A. BACKGROUM 1/
2.1          Jiangsu is a coastal province in eastern China; it covers an area of 102,600 km2,
which is about 1 percent of the country's land area. The province is densely populated,
especially in the south, with a total population of 68 million in 1990. Jiangsu has an extensive
system of water courses, including two of China's largest lakes, Taihu (Lake Tai) and Hongze
Hu, major sections of the Grand Cand and the downstream section of the Yang River (Chang
Jiang). The water bodies cover about 17 percent of the total area of Jiangsu Province.
2.2          Jiangsu is one of the most industrialized provinces in the country. Its Gross
Value of Industrial Output (GVIO) reached Y 316 biUlion in 1991, accounting for 12 percent of
the national GVIO and 83 percent of the provincial Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural
Oput (GVIAO). Industry is primarily concentrated in Southern Jiangsu (the portion of the
province which lies south of the Yangze River), where the proposed project is located (see Map
IBRD No. 24512). The fbur municipalities in Southern Jiangsu which will participate in the
project are Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang. The industrial output value in these four
cities accounted for about 53 percent of the provincial GVIO in 1991.
2.3          Since the commencement of economic reform in 1978, the rapid growth of rural
nonstate (collective and private) industry is the most remarkable aspect of Jiangsu's recent
economic development. By 1990, the total number of township and village industrial entrprises
MMEs) in the province has reached 95,000, accounting for some 45 percent (or close to twice
the national average) of the provincial GVIO. The importance of TVIEs in Jiangsu signifies the
relatively large role of market-oriented enterprises in this province. Under the open door policy,
thsands of the TVIEs in Jliangsu operate as joint ventures with foreign partners. Over the last
decade, Jiangsu's GVIO increased by an average of 16 percent per anmnm, which is even higher
than the national average of 13 percent. This is largely attributable to the dynamic growth of
TVIEs, particlarly in Suzhou and Wuxi municipalities. However, in contrast to this impressive
record of economic achievement are the serious environmental problems in the Southern Jiangsu
region.
,LI    For detiled discussion plee see 'Chinal Economic Developmat in iungsu Province (Report
No. 9354-CA, June 25, 1991) and -Rund Enteprise Development in China, 1986-90' (Wodd
Bank Dicssion Paper, No. 162).



- 7 -
B. ENVIRONmENTAL CoNDmoNs iN SounN JANGSU
2.4          Rapid industrialization, urbanization and population growth in Southern Jiangsu
have overwhelmed the natural assimilative capacity of the environment (Anne 3). Industry is
by far the main source of pollution, accounting for 70 to 80 percent of the total pollutant loading
in the region. Ihis is largely due to the use of outmoded and highly polluting technologies, lack
of pollution control facilities, poor operational management, as well as inadequacy in the design,
monitoring and enforcement of environmental policies and regulations. In addition to inadequate
industrial pollution control, water pollution problems are exacerbated by the lack of
Infrastructure for wastewater collection, treatment and disposal. Indeed, investment for
environmental protection in Jiangsu has for years remained at 0.3 percent of its Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), which is well below the national average of 0.6 percent. This is parldy due to
the relatively low revenue retention rates (para. 5.9) and the resultant fiscal constraints faced by
the municipalities in the financing of public works for pollution-control. There is already an
enormous bacldog of investment required to redress the more serious environmental problems
in Southern Jiangsu. In the absence of adequate environmental mnagement programs,
increasingly severe environmental degradation has serious ramifications, posing health hazrds
and undermining sustle development. It is in this context that the Chinese authorities have
accorded high priority to enmironmental protection in the Southern Jiangsu region.
2.5          The most pressing environmenal problems in the region pertain to contaminatd
water resources and related public health concerns. A large portion of industrial wastewater and
municipal sewage is directly discharged to watercourses without any treatment. Consequently,
the water quality in many parts of the region is at the lowest water quality standard in China
(Anne l). Indeed, such water bodies as the Grand Canal are characterized by anoxic, black
malodorous waters which will not support fish life. Water pollution is especialy problematic
in Southern Jiangsu because of its heavy dependence on the surface water resources for potable
supply, agriulture, aquaculture and transportation.
2.6          Severe environmental degradation is not confined to the urban areas, but is also
evident in the countyside. During the last decade, the TVIEs have played an increasingly
important role in the economic development of Jiangsu. However, TVIEs as a group also
contribute to serious environmental problems. Most of the TVIEs are smaU or medium in scale
and Di-equipped, using lcw-level technology which is oftn highly polluting.
2.7          Some 10 percent of the industrial wastes in Southern Jiangsu is hazardous; the
generation and disposal of these wastes are not controlled. With many industries located in or
close to heavily populated areas, immediate action is required to regulate and manage the
toxic/hazardous wastes to minimize environmental impacts and to protect public health.
C. ENVIRONM TAL SThATEGY AN  ACTON PLANS
2.8          The Jiangsu authorities are increasingly aware of the need to reconcile the
conflicts between economic development and environmental protection. Their objective for the
nineties is to increase the share of environmental protection investment to 0.6 to 1 percent of
GDP. This is in line with the national target of 0.85 percent during the Eighth Five-Year Plan
period (1991-95).



2.9          Over the course of extensive preparation for this project, the Bank assisted the
provincW  and micipal authorities in the formulation and articulation of a cohere
environmenl strategy and action plans for Southern Jiangsu (see Project File. Annx  ). A
summary of the targets for envronmental improvements In the four project cities is set out in
Annx 2. Within the stregic framework for the region, multi-faceted action plans were
developed in detail at the municipal level and consolidated at the provincial lea.el. In addition,
the provincial authorities have incorporated the regional perspeceive of enviomental
management in the action plans, which extend beyond the jurisdiction of individual cities. This
would include measures to address (a) intercity water pollution problems of the Grand Canal;
and (b) basin-wide environmental management of Taihu. In this connection, a Taihu Basin
Water Resources Protection Committee would be established under the Bank-financed Talhu
Basin Flood Control Poject to facilitate interagency coordinaion among the neighboring
provinces of liangsu and Zhejiang and Shanghai Municipality.
2.10         Given the inherent complexity of environmental problems which cut across
sectors, a building block approach has been adopted by the provincial and municipal authorities.
In their environmental action plans, a broad spectrum of pollution control measures have been
prioritized; the most pressing problems would be addressed in a cost-effective manner in the
short term, and subsequent pollution abatement programs would take into account the experience
and impacts of earlier measures. Thus, the development of an environmental strategy and action
plans is a dynamic processs; the environmental agenda would be revised, from time to time, as
the environmental situation changes and more extensive data bases and analyses become
available. During negoaons, assurances have been obtaed frm Jilangsu ha  It woudd
iqeme  and iwuld cause the mnidcipal goverments to Imp         the strategy and acdon
pans agreed with the Bankfor evironmental management In Southern Jiangsu and each of the
ur mucpalies. Progress reports on implementation of the environmental agenda would be
reviewed  ally with the Bank. The agreed environmental strategy and action plans are
highlighted below, and discussed in further detail it Annex 3.
Water Polludon Control
2.11         improvements of water quality in critical water supply catchments (e.g., Taihu)
and such watercourses as the Grand Cand have been accorded the highest priority in Southern
Jiangsu. The regional environmental strategy has, appropriately, adopted an int   approach
to improving water quality. The key elements of this approach include pollution abatement in
targeted industries, expansion of municipal sewerage systems, integration of industrial and
municipal wastertreatment systems where appropriate, corporatization of sewerage utilities
and establishment of a sound cost recovery policy to sustain efficient operations of these urban
services, control of toxic/hazardous wastes, and improvement in monitoring and enforcement of
envionmental regulations.
2.12         The proposed project has been designed to support the above multi-ponged
approach; the comprehensive measures included under this project constitte an important part
of the action plans to control water pollution in the region. The impact of the proposed project
on the reduction of chemical oxygen demand (COD) discharges is shown in   a  3. and
improvements in the water quality of project cities are shown in the attached maps (IBRD No.
24512, 24513, 24514 and 34515). This project would be complemented by the recenty
approv   Taihu Basin Flood Control Project which would also e  ribute to improvements in
the water quality of the region in general and of Taihu in particular.



-9 -
2.13         Industal Poludon Source Control. Industrial effluent accounts for some 80
percet of the tot  wate-borne pollutant loadn  in the region. Ihe strategy for Indust
pollution abatement focuses on cost-effecive measures which would also improve the operaiona
afficiency of the enteprises, thus achieving both economic and environmental objectives on a
sustainable basis. As exemplified by the proposed project, this approach would comprise a
combination of _msure, including structural transformation to efficient modern technology, the
use of less polluting raw materials and manufing processes, product upgrading, waste
minimiztion, rycling and rese. In some cases, industrial facilities are being relocated away
from inner city areas, particularly where water flow in the secondary canal network is low and
cleanup would be prohibitively expensive. As 4ar as practicable, relocation and future industrial
development wil involve the setting up of industial parks where common facilities for utilites
and waste treatment will ramit economies of scale and minimzed environmental impact.
Air Pollution Control
2.14         Air pollution Is not curreny at a critcal level in the region. However, In the
absence of adequate polluton abatement measures, air pollution shows signs of emerging as a
serious problem in the fture. lhe major elements of the air pollution control stategy are to
reduce emissions from pollution sources, Including improvements m the efficiency of coal
burning boilers, kilna and power generating facilities, and installing dust collection systems In
the larger faciities. In additon, pilot programs are being implemented for the installation of
desfurizaton facilities in thermal power plants. Further, control of hydrogen fluoride
emissions will include a new levy on fluoride discharge, and the utilization of solid waste
produced in power plan, namely use of fly-ash to make bricks. Separately, to mitigate the
serious health problems relating to low-level Indoor air pollution, a key strategy is to shift the
curent domestic fuel usage from coal to cleaner buming fuels, mainly town gas and, to a lesser
extent, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). All of the four cities in Southern Jiangsu have plans to
expand the town gas utlities.
Tic and Hamadou Waste Manage_mt
2.15         Toxic/hazardous waste management started only recently in China. Although
the present Chinese system promotes the reuse and recycling of wastes, there is no systematic
clasificatio  of hazardous materials; many haardous materials and wastes are used
iniscriminate. 1lans urgently needs to develop an eniromentaly sound, itegated and
functonal hanrdous waste and materi management and control systum. This would include
management from the dme of manuaue  or import of hazardous materials, transportion,
handling and use of those materials, and treatment and disposal of any toxicihadous wastes
generated following the use of the materials. The basic framework within which such an
integrated system can be deeloped already exists, with a network of provincial, municipal and
county level EPBs. A recently completed JGF-financed study has helped develop an overaU
fram ork for toxic)hazardous waste management in Jiangsu Province. The proposed project
would support the implemntaio of the first phase of a toxic/hazardous waste management
system at both the provial level and the municipal level in Wuxi (para. 3.18-3.21). In later
phases, the system wM be extded to other cities. Building on the results of the study noted
above, an ongoing JGF-financed study is being carried out with the assistance of international
consultants on the development of toxic/hazardous waste management policies/reglations and
on the feasibility of a pilot hazardous waste treatment and disposal system in Wuxi.



- 10-
Recommendations emerging from this study would be incorporated in the rolling environmental
stategy and acdon plans of Wuxi and Southern Jiangsu region.
TVIE Environmental Management
2.16         Since 1980, the real output of TVIEs has increased an average of 15 to 20
percent each year. Most of these industrial facilities are constructed near rivers and discharge
largely untreated effluent to the watercourses. TVEs generate an increasing portion of pollution
loads in the region, primarily because of sharp increases in the numbers and output of TVIEs,
and inadequate enforcement of pollution control regulations. Developing satisfactory solutions
is difficult mainly due to the small scale and scattered nature of most TVIEs. The broad strategy
being developed by the Jiangsu authorities is to: (a) limit the future growth of TVIEs in heavily
polluting industries; (b) relocate into industrial parks; (c) develop cost-effective ommon waste
treatment systems; (d) adopt cleaner technology and waste minimization; and (e) improve
monitoring and enforcement of enviromnental regulations. Recent initiatives by the local
govermnents to translate these policies into actions represent the first step in implementing the
agreed strategy. As an example. under the Bank-financed Rural Industrial Technology (Spark)
Project (Loan/Credit 3274/2186, the subprojects are required to integrate environmental
mnanagement in project design, construction and operational phases to meet all prevailing
environmental regions.
2.17         Under an ongoing JGF-flnanced study carried out with the assistance of
interaional consultants, the Jiangsu authorities would formulate a comprehensive TVIE
environmental management strategy and action plans for Greater Suzhou and Wuxi. This would
include policy and regulatory reforms and priority investments to demonstrate and promote sound
vironmental management of TVIEs. Selected priority pilot subprojects identified by this study
would be financed under the proposed project. Separately, under the JGF-flnanced technical
assistnce program to NEPA, one of the ongoing studies is on waste minimization of TVIEs,
including pilot projects in selected counties of Southern Jiangsu.
Environmental Regulations
2.18         Jiangsu is one of the leading provinces in monitoring and enforcement of
environmental regulations in China. Nevertheless, there remains considerable room for
improvements in he effective implementation of environmental regulations. The areas which
require special attention are summarized below:
(a)    Wastewater Disbharge Penmit System. Since 1988, Jiangsu has been selected
by NEPA to be one of the provinces to implement a pilot wastewater discharge
permit system. This system is an improvement over the former system in that
it monitors the enterprises' total pollution load rather than concetration alone.
Thus far, thte wastewater discharge permit system has only been applied to
industrial enteprises; the local EPBs have not enforced similar permit
requirements for municipal wastewater treatment plants. During negotitons,
assurances have been obtalnedfrom Jlangsu that, as a conditon of disbursemen
for the urban wasewater management coponents, all the munipal sewage
team  plnts under the project would obtain waewater discharge pentts
for thersexing operations and temporary discharge pents for the operadon
of the proposed project comWonents.



- 11 -
(b)   Operating Rules for Muniipal Sewerage Systems. The responsibilities for
pollution monitoring and control between the municipal EPBs and the sewerage
companies would be claified by the promulgation of operating rules for
municipal sewerage systems. Specifically, the sewerage companies would be
responsible for monitoring, policing, charging and imposing corrective measures
on their customers. This would include monitoring and enforcement of waer
quality standards relating to industrial effluent discharge to the municipal sewer
systems. The sewerage companies would, in tum, be held accountable for their
discharge into the water bodies and subjected to pollution levies by the local
EPBs, who would continue to be responsible for monitoring the environmental
protection measures required for the entities that discharge directly into the
water bodies. An assurance has been obtalnedfrom Jiangsu ha It would cause
the municpaltes concerned to prepare and fish to the Bank for comment
draft operating rldes for mwdcpal sewerage systems and promulgate dtem no
later than October 1, 1993 and thereafter Implement them, taldng Into account
the Bank's comments.
(c)    Toxic and Hazardous Wastes Management. NEPA has promulgated a draft
regulation on the prevention and control of solid wastes, including toxic and
hazdous wastes. During negotiatons, assurances have been obtahed from
Jiangsu that It would, and would cause the Wwd mnmcicpalty to prepare and
fiuish to the Bank for comment drt hazardous waste and mateial
management regulons, satry and operadng rldes and promulgate then no
later than October 1, 1993 and thereafter implement them, taking into account
the Bank's comments.
InsituIonal Steghng
2.19         A major impediment to improved environmenta compliance in the region is the
lack of high level skills in general enviormea management, speciflc technologies and policy
approaches common to the industrized countries.  To enhance the sustainabiity of
environmental management in the region, the action plans call for strengthening the local EPBs
through staff recruitment and training, improved access to modern technology and environmental
management know-how, and increased facilities for monitoring and enforcement. The proposed
project would include a comprehensive training program for strengthening the provincial and
municipal EPBs' institutional capability along with provisions for specialized monitoring and
training equipment (para. 3.26).



- 12-
3
THE PROJECT
A. RAnONAL FOR BmK PACIATION
3.1          Southern Jiangsu is one of the highest priority regions for envinm
protection in China. Jiangsu Province and the four project cities have the requisite instional
framework and commitment to carry out a successful environ l operation. During the
course of project preparation, the Bank assisted the provincial and municipal authorities in the
development of a coherent environmental strategy and action plans for Southern Jiangsu and each
of the four cities in the region. The proposed project, which is an importat part of the
nvironental action plans, would demonstrate sound approaches toward sustnable
environmental protection. Bank participation also contributed to improvements in the project
design through the initiation and monitoring of various preinvestment studies. Further, the Bank
was instrumental in effecting up-front actions for the  gna n and corporatization of the
sewerage utilities, and the establishment of a sound cost recovery policy to sustain efficient and
effctive operations of these pollution abatement services. Fmally, the proposed operation would
initi  support for toxic/hazardous materW  and waste management as well as TVIE
environmental management in China. The good practices learned under this project would have
a significant demonstration effect for other regions in the country.
B. PRtojEr OBIECrV
3.2          The objective of the project is to reduce the widening gap between economic
development and environmental protection in Southern Jiangsu in an efficient and effective
manner. In particular, the project would focus or water pollution control which is accorded the
highest priority in the environmental management strategy for the regin. lhe specific
objectives of the project include:
(a)   improvements in the formulation, monitoring and enforcement of environmental
policies and regulations;
(b)    ehancement of industrial point source pollution control in both urban and rural
areas through the introduction of cost-effective, low-polluting technology and
processes, waste minimization practices and improved economy of waste
tr;eatmen
(c)   improvements of municipal w swater management dutough the provision of
sewerage facilnies and the establishment of an aropria nstitutional
framework and a sound cost recovery policy;
(d)   initiation of toxic/haardous materia and waste management; and



- 13 -
(e)   strengthening the eiomental planing and magement capabilities of the
entities responsible for environmental protection in the region.
C. PROJECr DESCaUMON
3.3          The project would assist Jiangsu Province and the project cities to implement
their environmental strategy through selected priority Initiatives which would contribute
significantly toward pollution abatement in the region. The provincial and municipal authorities
have, in addition, committed to mobilizing their own resources for the implemetation of the
other measures included in the environmental action plans agreed with the Bank.
3.4          The project has been developed through the logical progresion of water quality
master planning in individual project cities, the development of enviromental strategy and action
plans for the Southern Jiangsu region, and the undertakdng of feasibility studies to opdmize the
design of individual components. The project has been prepared with the assistance of a large
number of Chinese design Institutes along wit intermational consults financed with funds from
various sources, including Techimcal Cooperation Credit (TCC) II (Credit 1664-CHA),
$413,000; Japanese Grant Facility (JGF), $1.5 million; and resources from the Overseas
Development  Administtion (ODA) of the United Kingdom, $1 million.
3.5          The project would comprise the following four main components:
(a)   Industrial Pollution Control Subprojects (81 perent). A line of credit would
be provided under the Bank loan to help finance investments as well as technical
assistance TA) and training for the following:
(i)  large-scale industrial pollution control subprojects in the urban areas of
Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang (72 percent);
!ii) small-scale industrial pollution conrol subprojects in the urban areas of
Suzhou and Wuxi (2 percent); and
(iii) pilot TVIE enironmental management subprojects in Greater Suzhou
and Wuxi (7 percent).
(b)   Urban Wastewater Management Components (14 percent). Construction of
municipal filities for urban wastewater management in Wuxi, Changzhou and
Zhenjiang.
(c)    ToxicHaardous Waste Management Components (2 percent):
(i) establishment of solid and hazardous waste management and registration
centers in Jiangsu and Wuxi;
QI) establishment of a hazardous materia emergency response center in
Wuxi; and
(iii)  constuction of hazardous material storage and transshipment facilities.



- 14-
(d)   Institution Building Components (3 percent).
(i) TA in detailed design and project management;
(i)  training for provincial and municipal EPBs, municipal sewerage
companies, hazardous material storage company and financia agent for
industrial pollution control subprojects; and
(iii) provision of specialized monitoring and tcaining equipment for local
EPBs.
IndustrW PollutIon Control Subprojects
3.6          Subproject Pipeline. The industrial pollution control subprojects have been
designed to achieve both pollution reduction and improvements in operational efficiency through
structural transformatic- to efficient and low polluting technologies, waste minimization/reuse
and, as appropriate, product upgrading. Ihe proposed project components would assist targeted
industrial enterprises to bring their effluent discharge to at least comply with the national (or
local) standards in a cost-effective manner.
3.7          A pipeline of large-scale subprojects, amounting to about $220 million of
subloans, has been screened by the Bank and certified by the local EPBs as requiring immediate
cleanup measures. A line of credit, totalling $198 million, would be provided under the
proposed Bank loan to help finance the following: (a) subloans ($179 miliiou) for large-scale
industr  pollution control subprojects in the urban areas of Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou and
Zhenjiang; (b) subloans totalling $3 million and $2 million for small-scale industrial pollution
abatement subprojects in the urban areas of Suzhou and Wuxi, respectively; and (c) subloans
totalling $6 million and $8 million for TVIE pilot subprojects in Greater Suzhou and Wuxi,
respectively. The proposed Bank loan for each subproject would be limited to 100 percent of
fbreign exchange costs, or 50 percent of total subproject costs, whichever is higher. Individual
subloans for the small-scale subprojects and TVIE subprojects would be below $0.5 million and
$1-2 million, respectively, while those for large-scale subprojects will generaly be well above
$2 million. In view of the different profiles of projected cash flow and related debt servicing
capability of small and larger subprojects, the proposed repayment period for the former would
be shorter (para 3.35). With a view to sustaining the flow of funds for small-scale subprojects
and TVIE subprojects, Suzhou and Wuxi municipal governments would establish environmental
revolving funds to recycle repaid loan funds from these types of suoprojects and to channel their
own funds. The operating nrocedures of the environmental revolving fund are set out in Annex
i. Assurances have been obtained from Jiangsu dt  It wuld cause the Wad and Suzhou
municiliies to establish and operate the enronmental revolving funds for small-scale
subprojects and 71E subprojects under procedures saisfactory to the Bank.
3.8          Pulp/paper mills and chemical industries are two of the largest water polluters
in Southern Jiangsu. Thus, the proposed subloans are mainly targeted at pollution control of
these two industries. Eight large-scale subprojects, with proposed subloans totalling $85 million,
are at an advanced stage of preparation. The feasibility studies and environmental impact
assessment reports of these subprojects have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
A summary of these subprojects, along with an additional pipeline of potential subprojects in the
chemical sector, are set out in Annex S.



- 15 -
3.9          TVIE Subprojects. Based on the recommedations emerging from the ongoing
JGF-financed study (para. 2.17) which would be completed by end-1993, pilot TVIE
environmental management subprojects In Greater Wuxi and Suzhou would be supported under
this project. The study Is essentially divided Into two major parts: (a) the development of an
overall environmental management strategy and action plans In Greater Wuxi and Suzhou; and
(b) within the above framework, preparation of feasibility studies for priority pilot TVIE
programs which could be financed under the proposed project. As water pollution control has
been accorded the highest priority by the Jiangsu authorities, the fundamental criterion for
selection of TVIE subprojects would be their impact on water pollution abatement. Industries
likely to be covered include tanneries, printing/dyeing and chemicals, which have been identified
as especially serious polluters. Rationalization of land use planning (mncluding the development
of industrial parks) and cost-effective measures (such as common waste treatment systems) would
be promoted under the, project.
3.10         Subproject Appraisal Arrangements. The environmentalltechnical appraisa
would include (a) an assessment of the subproject's consistency with the municipal eavironmental
strategy and its priority in the action plans; (b) the Lpact of the proposed subproject on
polution prevention and reduction; and (c) compliance with national/local environmental
regulations. The economic appraisal of the industrial pollution control subprojects would have
to demonstrate that (a) all feasible options for pollution reduction have been examined and that
the solution proposed is the most cost-effective; and (b) closure of the enterprises generating the
pollution is not the most economic solution. In addition, the financial appraisa would assess the
debt service coverage ratios of the enterprises which should be no less than 1.4 times. The
appraisal criteria, which are the same for all industrial pollution control subprojects, are outlined
in Annex 4. During negotiatons, assurances have been obtainedfrnom Jiangsu tht the agreed
procedures and crieria for indusrial subproject apraisal, sat factory to the Bank, would be
fbllowed.
3.11         CIB (Jiangsu Branch), which has been associated with the Bank since the
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2226-CHA/Credit 1313-CHA) in 1982 and has proven capability
in industial subproject appraisal, has been contracted to be the agent for the municipal
governments for overall subproject appraisal and would carry out economic and financial
appraisals of the industrial subproject entities. Credit risks would be carried by the respective
municipal governments. CIB Jiangsu would also administer the disbursement and collection of
subloan repayments for the subprojects, review the contract packages for the various industdal
subprojects, and determine the methods of procurement required. CEB Jiangsu would not
disburse funds on subloans unless the enterprises have: (a) satsfactorily completed an
environmental impact assessement report (ETA) for the proposed subproject and the ETA report
has been approved by the local EPB; and (b) obtained a wastewater discharge permit for their
existing operations, and a temporary discharge permit for operations of the subproject.
3.12         CIB Jiangsu has subcontracted, as principal technical appraisal agents, the
Nanjing Environmental Research Institute (NERM) for small-scale subprojects and TVIE
subprojects, and the Jiangsu Provincial Engineering Consulting Center (JPECC) for large-scale
industri pollution control subprojects, The above two institutes have the relevant qualifications
and experience to carry out the technical appraisal of these subprojects. Bank approval would
be required befbre any additional technical appraisal assistance from other sources was contracted
by CIB.



- 16-
3.13         To assist in developing the capability to apprais e       projects in
Jiangsu Province, the Bank has conducted traini  workshops, rviwed the prelmnry
economic and financial analyss carried out by CM Jiangsu, and made suggestions to improve
the quality of their appraisa work. Further, training of CIB Jiangsu in proJect appraisa was
finced under TCC 11 during project preparation, and further provision for CIB trahing would
be made under the proposed Bank loan (nne I2).
3.14         The Bank would review all the subproject apprasalJ reports in fiul (and in any
case no less than the fst four subproJects for large and small scale subprojects and for TV1
subprojects) until it is satisfied with the quality of the appraisal reportr submitted. Thereafter,
for industrial pollution control subloans of $4 million or less in aggregate to each entepise, CIB
Jiangsu would be authorized to approve subloans without prior Batnk approval, although
subproject summaries would be provided in advance to the Bank for review and the Bak would
retain the right for detailed ex post review.
Urban Wastewater Management Components
3.15         In conJunction with the industrial pollution source control measures, the urban
wastewater management components in Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang aim to achieve specific
water quality objectives in major water bodies in the region. Each city under the project has
developed a !ong-term water quality master plan with the assistance of international consultants
(parm. 3.4). The proposed components are only the initi  stage of least-cost, longer-erm
strategies in the master plan for the respective cities to achieve stated water quality objectives
in the region. Ultimate environmental targets will only be reached when subsequent stages of
the strategies and action plans have been implemented. Where appropriate, the proposed
components provide investments which achieve short term objectives without prejudice to longer
term alternatives for final effluent disposal. The project design hab been optimized tirough
techmo-economic analyses in the feasibility studies; they represent the least cost approach in each
city and maximize the benefits of investments already made. In older city areas, the existng
combined sewerage system would be rehabilitated or renewed and extended, whilst a separate
system would be introduced in newer areas.
3.16         In each city, the key investments would be in the construction of systems of
intercepting and connecig sewers to collect untreated domestic wastewater together with
parily treated or pretreated industri wastewater from the most densely populated urban areas
of the three cities, and to transport it to new or improved sewage treatment or disposal faciities.
The proposed investments in sewage treatment and disposal hp. a been careflly matched to
achievable construction programs for the provision, extension or rehabilitation of local sewerage
networks, interceptor and tunk sewers and pumping stations to collect the designed flows from
the contrbuig populations. In this connection, the proposed investments have been designed
to be fully utilized within a few years of project completion but would be capable of
incorporation into the longer term plans of each city for urban wastewater management. In
addiion, the project would provide for i mon, equipment and testing facilities for
effluent and system monitoring.
3.17         In Wad, sewage treatment for about 80 percent of the population within the
urbanized city area would be provided by extensions to the existing Lucun Sewage Treatment
Works with effluent discharge into the Grand Canal to the southeast of the city. The present
treatment capacity (100,000 m?/day-primary and 50,000 m'/day-secondary) would be extended



-17-
to 200,000 m'Iday and 100,000 m7/day, respectvely. In  W4iw&g, the collecte waswater
from most of the exisdng urbanised area, about SO percen of which currety discharges directly
Into the inner Yangtze River and the remainder indirecdy via the Grand Canal and the Yungliang
river, would be piped under the inner harbor to Zherenzhou bland and discharged, iitilly wih
pretreatment oly, it the outer Yangtze River. Secondary uteam  In the form of waste
sWabillzation ponds, has been planned for the next development phase and a 10 hectare pilot pond
system would be provided under the project to establish least cost design paramete  for the
eventual system. In Oaangz1o, new coilectio! and Interceptor sewers would enable the
domestic wastewater from about 40 percent of the existing urba area to be tansfrd to a new
sewage treatment works at Chengbel in the north of the city. Ihe new plant would provide
primary and secondary treatment for 50,000 mN/day with effluent discharge into the Ziaojiang
river.  he poposed plant, which would eventuy be extended to provide additional primary
treatment, represents the least cost, most appropriate first stage of a longer term plan to transfer
a substantial proportion of the city's wastewater to the Yangtze River for fina treatme  and
disposal. The two exit  treatment plants at L3hua and Qingta would be extended by
5,000 m5lday each, thus increasing the total area of the city serviced to about 60 percent by
project completion. Detailed description of the urban wastwater management component is
Rfesented in Amex .
TodcHazardous Waste and Material Management Components
3.18         Based on the recommendations of a JGF-financed study, the first phase of
hazardous waste and material management in Jiangsu would be supported under this project.
Further details are set out in Anneo 9.
3.19         Jlangsu/Wwd SoUid and Hzardous Waste Mag            and Registaion
Centers. Solid and hazardous waste management and registration centers at both the provncia
level OMC) and municipal level in Wuxi (WMRC) wouldbo established as an inefgral part of
the respective EPBs in Jiangsu and Wuxi. Ihe project would support JMRC and WMRC in their
development of appropriate toxic/hazardous waste management regulations [para 2.18(c)], the
establishment of a waste management information system, and imports of specialized monitoring
equipment and instruments.
3.20         Hzrdous Matl Emgency Response Center (HMIERC). The project
would support the establishment of a pilot HMERC in Wuxi, including provisions for specialized
fire fighting equipment and medica facilities to handle hazardous material accidents. HAMC
would be responsible for providing training and guidance to industry on accident prevention and
emergency response preparedness. During the initial phase, HMERC and WMRC would operate
as closely linked units within WEPB to promote an integrated approach to hazardous materals
management and to facilitate the undertakdng of an industry survey on both hazardous materials
used and hazardous waste generated. WEPB would coordinate with other municipal agencies,
notably the fire fighting department and the hospital, to implement the HMERC.
3.21         Wuw  Hazardous Materis Storage and Transshipment Fadlitles. Wuxi is
an importmt transshipment point for hazardous materials in the region. However, its present
storage facility does not meet local regulatory standards of safety or hygiene. The project would
support the constriction of a dedicated facility to handle the storage and transshipmem of
hazardous materials in Wuxi in a safe and environmentally sound manner, including adequate
provisions for fire safety, handling and contning spills as well as worker healdh and  y.



-18-
These measures would help prevent accidents and complement the emergency respose efforts
under HhMRC.
Teehnical Assistance and Training
3.22         As noted above, project preparation has been carried out with the assistance of
international consultants. In addition, the project would provide technical assistance and training
for project implementation and institutional building of both the local EPBs and project entities.
Ihe draft training program and related cost estimates, including both local and foreign training
activities as well as provisions for training equipment, are shown in Annex 12. An assurance
has been obta!nedfrom Jiangsu that training would be carried out In accordance with a program
agreed with the Bank.
3.23         Urban Wastewater Management.  Qualified local design institutes and
internional consultants would be engaged to provide technical assistance in detailed engineering
design, preparation of procurement documents, project management and construction
supervision. The agreed Terms of Reference for technical assistance in project implementation
are in Annex 7. The proposed project would also include provisions for training to strengthen
the operational and monitoring capabilities of the three municipal sewerage companies.
3.24         Financial/Accounting Training. The scope and complexity of enterprise
cuntng is significantly greater than that of traditional municipal service accounting. Further,
the enterprise accounting principles have rcently been revised to conform largely with those of
international accouting practices (para. 5.4). Thus, the sewerage companies which have been
reorganized from municipal service departments (para. 4.8) need to adopt such measures as staff
tining and recruitment of more experienced staff. Training in modern financial management,
inluding international accounting practices, long-term financial planning and tariff design would
be provided to the sewerage companies under this project as well. The proposed training
program in Wuxi is set out in Annex 12. Similar training programs would be provided for the
Changzhou and Zhenjiang sewerage companies. In this connection, it would be cost-effective
for the training seminars to include participants from all three cities.
3.25         Toxichlazardous Waste Management. The concerned local agencies are
inexperienced in tomic/hazardous waste management; the proposed project would include
provisions for the requisite technical assistance and training for the implementation of JMRC,
WMRC, HMERC and hazardous material storage and transshipment component. The agreed
Terms of Reference for TA and training are in Annex I0.
3.26         EPB. The project would include training provisions to strengthen the overall
capacity of the provincial, municipal and county EPBs. Training for staff of the EPB system,
its monitoring stations and research institutes will mainly concentrate on policy development,
pollution control legislation and enforcement measures (with particular emphasis on the permit
system and hazardous waste management noted above), monitoring techniques and the use of
computer-aided designs. This would include training by international experts to complement
local training efforts, especially in state-of-the-art approaches to pollution control. With a view
to enhancng the cost-effectiveness of these training activities, JEPB would take the lead role in
coordination of the municipal training programs and promotion of joint traiing activities and
related cost-sharing among the four cities. In addition, to further the objective of strengthening



- 19 -
z!te local EPBs' capability to carry out their mandate, the project would include provisions for
specialized monitoring and training equipment (AMexes 11 and 12).
3.27         Industrial Pollution Control. The proposed industrial subloans would include
TA and training for selected subproject entitites, including Hong Ye and Huasheng paper mills
(Ann  5). In addition, the project would Include training provisions for the financial agent,
CIB Jiangsu, including both overseas and in-ountry training in economic, financial and
environmental aspects.
D. PiojECr ORGANIzAION AND MANAGEMET
3.28         With a view to enhancing interagency coordination and dissination of good
practices and lesson leaned from earlier Bank-finmced projects, the Jiangsu authorities have set
up a Provincial Leading Group in 1991 to oversee all the Bank operations in the province.1/
The Leading Group is headed by a Deputy Governor, and comprises leaders of the relevant
provincial agencies, including the Planning Commission, Bureau of Finance, Foreign Trade
Commission, China Investment Bank (CIB) Jiangsu Branch and selected sector agencies,
including 1EPB. This arrangement is satisfactory.
3.29         Under the Provincial Leading Group, a provincial project management office
(PMO) has been established to carry out the administrative work relating to Bank-financed
projects. The PMO comprises staff from the same provincial agencies as those for the Leading
Group. Its responsibilities include: (a) providing coordination among various project-related
agencies; (b) monitoring of progress on overall project preparation and implementation; and (c)
consolidation of project progress reporting, including project costs and financing aspects, to the
Jiangsu authorities and the Bank. Under the Provincial PMO, project teams have been
eblished for individual projects. The project team for the proposed operation comprises
mainly staff from JEPB to provide technical leadership, with support from other provincial
agencies to cover procurement, finance and other adminitrative aspects of the project.
3.30         In addition, each of the four municipalities unde- this project has established a
Bank loan administraon Leading Group which is headed by a deputy mayor. Under this
Leading Group, municipal PMOs are organized in a similar manner to the provincial PMO, with
represntion from the relevant municipal agencies. Changzhou PMO has gained experience
in Bank procedures under the ongoing Medium-Sized Cities Development Project (Credit
22011Loan 3286). Chart 3 contains the organization charts for project management. An
assurance has been obtanedfrom Jiangsu thatt would, and would cause the municiaUites to,
maintain the leading groups andproject management offices at both theprinca and municpal
kewis with functions and staffing saiactory to the Bank.
E. PROJECT IMPLENATION SCEDLE
3.31         The industrial pollution control subprojects are expected to be completed within
three years of subloan approval. Most of the detailed designs for the proposed sewerage and
hazardous waste management componeuts have been commissioned; these detaied designs and
related bidding documents would be completed by mid-1993. The hazardous waste mamgement
11 The beneficanes of nie Bank ope   s in vanious sectos am located in Jin  Province.



Table 3.1: 1ROIM:r DCCoI SOMIifAZY
Foreign
Local      Porein          Total        tocal       Foreign         Total      as I of
--   mUillion) --------- _. ______         (Y million) -_               Total
Zndustrial PolUe:lon Control Cmponencs
Large-scale subprojects                        154.2        159.8         314.0        848.1         879.1       1,727.2         Sl
Small-scale subprojects                          5.0          5.0          10.0          27.5         27.5          55.0         50
TMIe subprojects                                14.0         14.0          28.0          77.0         77.0         154.0         50
Subtotal                                    173.2          1           352.0        952.6         983.6       1.936.2        S
Urban Wastewater Nagensnt Components              34.4         25.1          59.5         189.3        137.8         327.1         42
Hazardous WVt5 Managment Components                4.3          3.7           6.0          23.6         20.1          43.7         46
TA and Training                                    5.8          3.0           8.8          32.0         16.4          48.4         34
EP8 Monitoring and Tralning Equip.nnt              0.3          0.7           1.0           1.6          3.7           5.3         71
Land hcqulaitiou and Reloeation                    2.7          0.0           2.7          15.1          0.0          15.1          0
Total lase Costs (1992)                     220.7        211.2         432.0      1,214.1       1,161.6      2,375.8         49
Physical Contiugencies                            22.3         21.1          43.4         122.5        116.2         238.6         49
Price Contingencies                               39.8         35.4          75.2         218.9        194.9         413.8         47
Total Prolect Costs                         282.8        267.7        550.6       1.555.5       1.472.7      3.028.2         49
interest during construction                       4.6         32.8          37.4          25.4        180.2         205.6        88
Total Financion  Requtred le                287.4        300.5        588.0       1,581.0       1,652.9      3,233.7         51
g Mm plbepa  is exon"p frm nupjo duties and axes.
&  Ineres dufing constution (IDC) is basod on onlending rates for projted disbrsemen  of loan procceds. The fogn curency poiti  of IDC is based on thd
Bank la variable rats.
Ic Fues may not total exadly duo to roundig.



- 21 -
components would be completed by 1996. Major components of the project would be completed
by 1997, except for the sewer system in Wuxi which would be completed in the year 2000. The
project is estimated to be completed by December 31, 2000, and the loan closing date would be
June 30, 2001. The implementatiom schedule of the sewerage and hazardous material stre
and trsshipment coempones are shown in Chas 10 and 11, respwcdvely.
F. Ptomr CoST ESr MAMIS
3.32         Project cost estimates are based on preliminay engineering designs prepared by
each city with the assitance of local des  insitmtes and foreig consultas. Ihe unit prices
were derived through a reconciliation of data from the following sources: (a) quotations obtaned
from manufcturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts in China;
and (c) construction costs according to prices published by the Government, adjusted for
inflation. Physical conngencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the base costs Cm early
1992 prices), except for the urban watwar management component in Zhenjiang which is
estimated at 12.5 percent of the base costs to reflect possible minor changes in the detiled
design of the river outfall pending the completion of ongoing surveys and investigation into tidal
flow variations in the Yangt River. The price escalation for costs  rssed in terms of local
curreq is calculated according to projected local inflation rates of 6 percent per annum  The
price escalation for costs expressed in terms of foreign exchange (US dollars) is calculated
according to anticipated intional price escalation of 3.7 percent per annum.
3.33         Ihe estimated cost of the project is $551 million (Y 3 billion), with a foreign
exchange component of $268 million (49 percent). The total financing requieents, including
nerest during construction ($37 miXlion), are estmated at $588 million (Y 3.2 biSlion). The
detailed project cost estimates of the proposed urban wastewater management components and
hazardous mate -' storage and transshipmen component are set out in Anex 13.



-22 -
G. PPROJECr FINANaNG
3.34        The financing plan for the overall project is shown In Table 4.2.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(in $ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Source                               Loeal  Forelgn  Total    finaneing
Government                            46.6      9.4    56.0        20
Enterprises                          218.8    63.1   282.0         48
IBRD                                  22.0   228.0   250.0         42
Total Finanumin
12ouired La                  287.4   300.5   588.0        100
La Includes interest during construction ([DC) of about $37.4 million.
Figures may not total exacdy due to rounding.
3.35        The Bank loan of $250 million equivalent would be made to the Government of
China (GOC) for a 20-year term, including a 5-year grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. An assurance has been obtained from GOC and Jangsu Province that proceeds
of the loan would be onlent to Jiangsu and the four munipaldtes for a period of 15 years,
indudIng 5 years of grace, at no less than 85 percent of the Bank's standard wriable Interest
rate. The municipalities would bear the commitment charges and foreign exchange risks, except
those that are borne by the enterprises to whom they onlend. Relending to project entities would
be consistent with Bank operations in the respective sectors. Assurances have been obtaned
from JAangsu that It would cause the munlcpalites concerned to relend the proceeds from the
loan on the folowing terms: (a) to the industril entites at a variable rate equal to the Bank
rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per annum, with the enterprises bearing the commitent
dcarges and the foreign exchange risks; the grace period would be ap to 3 years, and the
mat  ip to 10 years and 7years, respectively, for large-scale subprojects andfor small-scale
subprojects and lYlE subprojects; and fb) to the three municipal sewerage companies and Wuxl
Hazardous Material Storage and Trading Company (VWSC) for 15 years, Induding flve years
of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with the project entitles bearing the
commiment charges andforeign exchange rIsks. Executon of the subsidiay loan agreements
between the m alites and thelr sewerage companies and WMSC (induding the fiancial
cowenat In para 5.13), satfctory to the Bank, would be a condlon of loan effeaveness.
H. PROCUREMENT
3.36        Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been
agreed with the conerned agencies of the Government. These procrement agencies are
experienced and have the necessary Instiutional capacity to manage the procueme under the
projecL



-23 -
3.37         Prior Bank Review. For all project components, all international competitive
bidding (ICB) contracts would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The modd bidding
documents specifically prepared for China will be useu for all procurement activities under the
project.
3.38         Civil Works.  Except for the industi  pollution control subprojects,
prequalification of bidders will be undetaken for all civil work contracts of an estmated value
of over $5 million each. Qualified domestic contractors under ICB will be eligible for a
7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
The civil works contract for submarine pipelines, outfall and Eastern interceptor (valued at about
$7.7 mfllion), which would involve specialized technology, would be procured through ICB
procedures. All other civil work contracts for the urban sewerage components, which are valued
at less than $7 million each, would involve conventional technology and spread over congemsd
areas of the respective cities or tie in with the existing sewerage systems. These contracts,
which are unlilcely to attract foreign contractors, would be awarded thrugh local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. The LCB procedures recently promulgated by the Govenment have
been reviewed and approved by the Bank. Interested foreign bidders will be allowed to bid for
LCB contracts.
3.39         Equipment and Materials.  Except for the industrial pollution control
subprojects, goods with individual contract values exceeding $200,000 would be procured
through IC.; any exceptions to the ICB procedures would have to be justified and approved by
the Bank. Qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent or customs duties and import tax payable by a nonexempt importer, whichever is less.
Goods with individual contract values not exceeding $200,000 and above $100,000 would be
procured under LCB, up to an aggregate value of $2 million. Small items of low value, i.e.,
Instns, meters, valves, etc., not exceeding $100,000 each contract up to an aggregate limit
of $6 million, would be procured through international or local shopping procedures.
3.40         Teccal Assistance  Ihe consultants retained under the project will be
recrmited in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the Use of Consultants by its Borrowers.
Counterpart staff will be assigned by the concerned agencies of the local Government.
3.41         Industrial Pollution Control Subloans. CB Jiangsu would review the contract
packages and the methods of procurement for the various industrial subprojects. Ihe procedures
for procurement would be the same as those for Bank-financed CIB projects which the Bank has
reviewed and found satisfactory. Individual contracts exceeding an estmated value of $5 milion
would be procured under ICB. Contracts of $5 million or below and above $200,000 would be
awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified
suppliers from at least three countries. Contracts below $200,000 would be awarded after
evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers. Ibese
contracts would be subject to postreview by the Bank, and CIB would maintn all relevant
documents in its records for this purpose.



- 24 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENr ANGEMEN
(in $ million)
Project component                   ICB      LCR   Other/a  llBFl   Total
Civil Works
Wastewater management sewerage    7.2    45.9          -       -       53.1
(3.6)  (20.3)                     (23.9)
Hlazardous waste &                  -        -         -       2.0      2.0
material management
Houipment and Materials
Sewerage                           12.7      2.2      3.6      -       18.5
(12.7)   (1.7)    (3.0)            (17.3)
Hazardous waste &
material management                4.3      -         2.3     2.5      9.1
(4.3)             (2.1)            (6.4)
EPB monitoring and
training equipment                -        -        1.3      -        1.3
(0.9)            (0.9)
Others
Land acquisition and relocation    -         -         -       3.3      3*3
Techuical Assistance & Training    -         -        9.3      -        9.3
(3.5)            (3.5)
Inaustrial Pollution Control
Subloans Ic                       -        -      454.0      -      454.0
(198.0)          (198.0)
Total                         24.2    48.1    470.5       7.8   550.6
(20.6)  (22.0)  (207.4)           (250.0)
Note: (1) Figure in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Ban
(2) Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
La Other procurement methods include inteional and local shopping, consultant services
(recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines) and training.
& NBF denotes non Bank financing.
& Industri pollution control components would be disbursed agalnst a line of credit and the
deUiled prouement packages are not yet well defined. Ihe prcedures for procement
would be the same as those for Bank-financed CIB projects. Indvid contas exceedg
an estimated value of $5 million equivalent would be procured under ICB.



-25 -
I. DL
3.42         The proposed Bank loan of $250 million equivalet would be disburse over a
period of eight years as follows:
Civil works                 $22.0 million     50 pecent of expenditures
Materials and equipment     $21.0 million      100 pecen of foreign  penditures
and 100 percent of local ependitur
(ex-factory) and 75 pent of local
ewpenditures for other items procured
locally
Constants' services
& taining                  $3.0 million      100 percn of ependitures
Industrial pollution
control subloans         $179.0 million      100 percent of amounts disbursed by
CIB
Unallocated                  25.0 million
3.43         A speca account in US doar with an autorized allocation of $10 million,
based on four months average disbursemes, would be establihed. It would be replenished
monthly or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50 percen of it inits    deposit,
whichever occurs first  Disbursemens for tainig, and civil works and goods conc  not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of aa of expendure (SOEs)
to be certifd by the provinci PMO. The prowvinal PMO would retain documets supporting
the SOEs for all components except industial subloans, the do ation of which would be
reaned by CIB Jiangsu; these documets would be made avble for inspection and review
by the Bank supervision missions. Al other disburse_ents will be made against fully
documented expenditures. Retroactive finacing of up to $2 million is provided for e
incured after October 31, 1992 covern urgenty needed consultants' services and training
required for dtailed project design and Implementation. The disbursement scedue (an  1
is projected to be largely consistent with the standard Bank-wide secoWal disbursement profie.
However, the disbursent period for the project is expected to be slightly longer than the Bank-
wide profile due to the lead time required to complete the swer system in Wuxi.
J. LAM ACQUSMON AND RESq IIE ICNT
3.44         The municipalities anticipate no difficuty in carrying out land acqustion and
relocation of some 370 peo  reated to the udm waswater manament componet. Each
of the concened municipalities has formed a team respsible for land acquidtion and
resettlement; consultation with tie affected persons      already started. The principles and
monitoring indicators of resettement, acceptable to the Bank along with the plan and schedule
of resettement are presented in An     J   Most of the detafled desig  of the sewerage
componnts is scheduled to be completed in 1993; the resetdement pla of these components Is
expected to be revised, as   ropriate, upon the compledon of the deted design. P*oWilon
of resetlm    planot r al tre mw cte, s              o the Bm,  would be required



-26 -
prior to any disbursememsfor she urban wastewater management coponents. Assurances have
also been obtaned from Jlangsu Province tha It would, or would cause the m cpalies
concerned to (a) cany out resettlement of persons affected by the project In a maner and
according to a schedude whch is satiactory to the Bankl and (b) report on the progress of
carrying out the resettlement plan using monitoring Indicators acceptable to the Bank.
K. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACr ASSE T
3.45         The proposed project would have a significant positive environmental impact.
The water quality of many water bodies In the region would be improved by one grade (Chinese
water quality standard, Annx 1 after the completion of the project. Chinese regulation requires
the preparation of an environmental assessment (EA) report at the time of project design. The
EA reports of the sewerage and hazardous waste management components and selected industa
subprojects were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory (Annexes 5. 6 and 9). While the
project would remove substantial pollution loads, some possible side effects have been identified
and mitigative measures developed during the EA process. In particular, appropriate
arrangements have been made for the final disposal of the excess wastewater sludge from the
treatment plants. The sewerage companies have concluded contracts with farmers to use the
sludge as fertlizers; this Is a common practice in China. Moreover, the municipal governents
have confirmed that the municipal landfill would be the last resort of sludge disposal.
Separately, the proposed wastewater teatment plants will be located at sites which would have
minima impact on human living conditions and where the receiving water bodies would be able
to absorb better the elevation of pollution level at the discharge points.
L. PtojEcr MONTORNG, RESORTING AND SUPRvON
3.46         The implementation schedules of the proposed sewerage component and
hazardous management component are in Qbat -IQ .and 11. Annex 2 contains proposed
monitoring indicators for environmental improvement. Reports on project progress would be
st to the Bank semi-annaly. The format and content of project progress reports were
dicssed and agreed during negotiatons. The last progress report of each year should in
pardcular include: (a) the latest project cost estimate and financing plan for the following year,
includingthe govermment's approved budget for local counterpart funding for the urban sewerage
and hazardous waste management components; and (b) a progress report on the implementaton
of the emental strategy and action plans which would be reviewed annmally with the Bank.
The environmental agenda would be revised from time to time and copies of the revised plans
would be sent to the Bank for review and comments.
3.47         Following up on the semi-annual project progress reports, the Bank would
nomaly field two supervision missions per year. Given the complexity of this project, the
supervision requirements are likely to be higher than Bank-wide average. An indicative Bank
supervision plan is shown in Annex 15. Various measures would be taken to help contain
supervision costs, including: (a) an agreement with Jliangsu regarding sasactory arrangemen
for project management; (b) provisions for technical assistance and training in project
implementation; and (c) adding supervision for this project in the terms of rarence of other
project missions as well.



-27 -
M. PRoJEcr SUSUAMNAH
3.48         The project has adopted an Integrated approach to improve the enabling
environment for sustainable pollution abatement, including improvements in the formuation of
enviroment regulations, Instiutional strengthening for enhancing the montoring and
enforcement capabilities of the local EPBs, corporatization of sewerage utilides and establishment
of sound cost recovery policies for these pollution abatement services, and promotion of cost-
effective, cleaner technologies and waste minimization practices which would provide finacial
incentives for industrial pollution control. In view of the commitment by the provincial and
municipal governments to implement the above measures, the environmental protection efforts
initiated under this project are expected to be sustained.



- 28 -
4
TEBENEICIARIES
A. hwocrJ  MUMCIrnLTS
4.1          The administrativejurisdiction of the four project municipalities includes the four
cities poer and a total of nine counties and seven smaller townships and districts. Each of the
project municipalities is headed by a mayor, who Is assisted by four deputy mayors and a
secretarygeera.  The organization chart of Suzhou, which Is typical of a municipal
administrative stuctre, is set out in Chart 3.
4.2          The project municipalities are among the most industraized cities in Jiangsu.
The major induties in Southern Jianu Include textiles, chemcals, food processing,
electrnics, machinery and construction materia. In 1991, the GVIOs of Suzhon, Wuxi,
Cbangho and ZhenJiang were Y 70.1 bilion, Y 55.6 billion, Y 31.7 billion and Y 17.4
billion, respectively. In terms of indusi output value, Greater Suzhou and Wuxi are ranked
forth and fifth among all the cities In the country. As noted above, TV1s are the engine of
growth In Jlangsu. By 1991, TVIEs in both Suzhou and Wuxi accunted for 60 to 70 percent
of the nmnicipalities' GVIO. Indeed, In tems of industral output value, Wuxi County (Wuxi),
with TVEs acounting for some 90 percent of Its GVIO, is ranbed first among all the counties
in China.
4.3          Suzhou is an ancient city famous for its scenic beauty and gardens; it is one of
the historical sites targeted for preservation by the central government. Thus, Suzhou is the ordy
project city which receives limitd centa govemet tbnding to help finance pollution
abatement measures. In terms of Institdonal and financW capacky as well as achievement in
proutecdon(Atetk  ce  3 and 17m, therankingoftheprojectcities isthesame as that
of tieir GVIO, with Suzhou being the most advanced among the project cities.
4.4           anhou Is the beneficiary of the ongoing Meim-sizd Cities Development
Project (Credit 2201/Loan 3286).  Under thi proJect, Changdo  has established an
environm   l revolving fund to help face pollution abatement meures as well as local
BPB's monioing equipnt. Frther, Cbangzhou and Wuxi have been selected by NEPA to
be pilot cities to implement the recommend   emerging from the ongoing JGF-financed
studies on economic and financia mehnsbm  for environmental management and waste
minimization and pollution conrol of rura idustries (para. 1.16).
B. INSnUUIOL FRAiEwoRx FoR ENviRoNNMNTAL MANAGEMENT
4.5          Under the leadership of each municipal govement, with technical guidance
from NEPA and JEPB, the municipal enionmental protection bureau (EPB) is responsible for



-29-
the planning, coordination, monitoring and contol of environmental management iD the ciy
concerned. It also provides guidance to environmental proteton bureaus and offices at the
county, urban neight orhood and township levels. A typical orgization chat of a municW
EPB (Changzhou EPB) is set out In Cha 4.
4.6          In addition to the local EPBs, a large number of agencies are involved with
environmentl magement which, by nature, cuts across sectors. In particular, reflecting the
government's objective to integrate economic development with enironmental management, the
municipal planning commission Is responsible for developing the city's overaU investment plans,
including those for environmental pr-.zection. The municipal industral buraus are responsible
for pollution abatement of industrial sources under their jurisdictions. Separately, the municipal
urban and rural construction commssion is in charge of overall city planning. Under this
commission, the main organization wi  responsibility for environmental protection is the
Municipal Engineering and Public Utilities Bureau (MEPUB) which is in charge of water supply
and sanitation.
C. WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT ORGANMATON
4.7          Wastewater works in the municipalities in China are generally managed by the
municipal engineering administration division (MEAD) under the MEPUB. As an operating arm
of the municipal government for public services, the MEAD receives appriions fm the
municipal budget for the maintenance of city sewer pipelines, stormwaw disposal and the
maintenance of roads and bridges of the city. The sewerage function within the same city is
often divided among two to three entities. Under this form of institional rangements, the
managers of the sewerage entites lack operational/fimancial autonomy and accountability; it is
not conducive to the delivery of efficient and effective sewerage services.
4.8          The proposed wastewater management components are located in Wuxi,
Cbangzlhou and Zhenjing. Recognizig that improved was r managemeat is essential to
protecing and improving the environment, the sewerage entities in these three cities have
recety been restructured from subunits of a government department to autonomous enterprises.
Under the leadership of EPUB, these companies would operate on a financially sef-sufficiet
basis, raising their own revenues to cover their costs. Further, the responsibilities for the urban
w w     disposal and treatment systems in each city have been consolidated under the new
sewerage companies. Consistent with the ongoing enterprise reforms in Cbina (para. S. 1), these
sewerage companies would enhance the separation of ownership and management through the
settig up of Boards of Direcors. The restructured instutional framework allows these
sewerage companies to assume increased operational/financial autonomy and accountability.
Charters which are satisactory to the Bank have been issued for each of the sewerage
companies. Moreover, the responsibilities for pollution monitoring and control between the
municipal EPBs and the sewerage companies would be clarified by the operaig rules for
municipal sewerage systems which should be promulgated no later than October 1, 1993 [para.
2.18(b)].
4.9          The responsibilities for water supply and santation have thus far been separated
into two entities in China. However, given the close relationship betwe  water supply and
sewerage, including commonatities in planning basis and institutional aspects, it is common
international practoe to combine the two functions into one company. Under the proposed



- 30 -
project, Zhenjiang would Implement such a system on pilot basis by merging the water supply
company with the sewerage company.
Wusi Drainage Company
4.10         Wuxi Drainage Company (WDC) was established in May 1991 through the
meWr of two existng entities, Wuxi Drainage Company and the Lucun Sewage Treatment
Works Company. The organization chart of WSC is presented in Char  . WSC presendy has
167 staff; its plan is to gradually increase to 370 staff in 1998 Nhen Lucun treatment plant
second phase is scheduled for commissioning.
C _angvou Urban Seweage Company
4.11         Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company (CUSC) was established in August 1991
through the merger of three sewerage units. The company is responsible for the construction,
operation and maagement of the city sewerage network, including urban sewerage pipeline,
waste water discharge pipeline, pump stations, wastewater treatment plants and their accessory
facilities. The organization chart of CUSC is presented in Char 7. CUSC presently has 126
staff; its plan is to increase gradually to 300 staff in 1998 when the proposed sewage treatment
plant in Chengbei would be commissioned.
ZheujLg Water Supply and Drainage General Company
4.12         Zhenjiang Water Supply and Drainage General Company (ZWSDC) was
established in December 1990 through the merger of the Water Supply Company and the Urban
Development Company (UDC). The Water Supply Company was an enterprise under the
MUPUB, while UDC was part of the muncipal government department for housing development
under the MUPUB. The organization chart of ZWSDC is presented in (hart 8. The two
subunits of ZWSDC, the Water Supply Company and Drainage Company, are separate profit
centers and accountable for their respective financial performance. The Drainage Company
presently has 126 staff; its plan is to increase gradually to 224 staff in 1998 when the proposed
urban sewerage system would be commissioned.
D. HAZARIOUS MATERLAL STORAGE ORGANZATION
4.13         Wuxi Hazardous Material Storage and Trading Company (WMSC) has been
established for the implementation of the hazardous material storage and transshipment
component. A company charter satisfactory to the Bank has been issued. The organization chart
of the company is shown in Chant . The planned number of staff would reach 100 in 1995
when the proposed project component is scheduled for commissioning. Most of the staff are
expected to be recruited from the existing Wuxi Petrochemical Corporation.



-31-
5
FNANCIAL ASPECTS
A. FINANCLAL MANAGEMENT OF ENTERPRIS
5.1          Since 1978, economic reforms have evolved gradually toward an increasiny
decenraied financial system in China. Most of the industrial production and prices have
become free of government control, and enterprises have to purchase most of their inputs at
market prices. In the latest initiatives to deepen reforms and improve economic efficiency,
enterprise reform has been accorded high priority by the government. In this connection, the
guiding principles of the recendy promulgated regulations on transforming the management
mechanisms of state-owned industrial enterprises" are to separate govermnment adminisation
from enterprise management, increase the autonomy and accountability of state-owned
enterprises, and increase competition and market-orientation. The reform efforts to improve
economic policies and enterprise efficiencies are essential for sustaining both economic
development and environmental protection in the longer run.
5.2          In order for the enterprises to assume their increased responsibilities efficiently
and effectively, strengthening of their financial management is essential. Toward this end, the
proposed project would include various measures to promote the applications of modern
management techniques and human resource development, including (a) the extension of financial
planning horizon from the current Chinese practice of one year financia plaing; (b) tariff
studies for sewerage services and for hazardous material storage and transshipment; (c) training
in financial management; and (d) the establishment of financia appraisal criteria for industria
subproject enties, and fincial performance covenants to direct the sewerage companies and
hazardous materW storage company toward prudent financial management.
B. ACCOUNTING
5.3          Different accounting systems are used by eterprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government departments, in
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Minisbtry of Finance (MOF).
Enteprise Accuting
5.4          All the stowned enterprises in China follow a unified enterprise account
system on an accmal basis. The current accounting framework was developed in the context of
a highly centralized planned economy. With a view to complemenig the ongoing effrts to
deepe reforms in the financial sector and enterprise management, the accounting system in
China needs modernization to permit satisfactory financial management in an increasingly
decentalized and market-oriented environment. As a first step, the general principles of



- 32 -
enterprise accounting have recently been revised by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). These
revised principles are generally consistent with those of international accounting standards.
Within this broad framework, specific accounting standards would be developed with the
assistance of the Bank under the FinancW Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2423-
CHA). Training in modern financial management, including international accounting practies,
would be provided to the sewerage companies under this project (Annex 12).
Govenment Accounting
5.5          The regular government department accounts reflet eirpenditures incurred
against budget allocations by the municipalities. Accounting is handled in a decentralized
manner through transfers to subunits from which actual expenditures are made and recorded on
a cash basis.
Project Accounts
5.6          Separate project accounts would be maintained by all the project entities
concerned. CIB Jiangsu Branch, the financial agent for the industrial pollution control
components, would be responsible for the consolidation of financial reports for these
components. For the other project components, the municipal project management offices
(PMOs) in each of the four cities would consolidate the financial reports on individual project
components submitted by the entities concerned. These financial reports, along with CIB's
rep-ts on the industri components and JEPB's reports on the JRMC component, would in turn
be consolidated by the provincial PMO.
C. AUDiTS
5.7          As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Funds Utilization
Bureau of the State Audit Adminision (SAA) will have overaU responsibility for auding
accounts concerning the project. The actual auditing work will be conducted under SAA's
supervision by the Audit Bureau of the Jiangsu Province. Ihis armgement is satsfctory.
Technical assistnce for SAA and the provincial auditing bureaus wiUl continue to be financed
under the Planning Support and Special Studies Project (Credit 1835-CHA). Assurances have
been obined from Jlangsu that the fobowing anual audited fiancial reports world be
sumtted totheBankwinslxmonthsaterthe end of theflnancalyear: (a)projectaccounts,
including the auditor's opinion on the use of Special Account and statements of ependiurs
(SOEsJ; and (b) fInancIa statements of the three mnicwpa sewerage companies and the Wwd
Hadous Materl Storage and Trading Company.
D. FINANCES OF MLrCirAL GOVERNMENTS
Taxation
5.8          The tax system was introduced in 1978 and is sti2 evolving as economic reform
in the country is being deepened. Tases provide the revenue base for the municipal, provincil
and central govermnents. All of the enterprises under this project pay a variety of taxes. The
taxatlo" system for industrial enterprises is complex; the tax rates may differ significantly among
sectors and even within a sector. In particular, tax concessions are often granted to entitles to
influence sector policies or to support a specific industry. Ilsofar as env menal protecto



- 33 -
is concerned, tax incentives ae currnty given to entrprises which recycle and reuse waste
materas.
Revenue Retento
5.9          Under the Chinxese tax sharing system, a significant portion of the taxes collected
by the municipal governments are remitted to the Jiangsu provincial government, which in urn
transfets a share of these funds to the central govermment. A similar system operates in relation
to foreip exchange earnings. At each transfer, a certain "retention rate" is assessed to the
renes according to a complex formula. In the case of the four municipalities under the
project, the effective retention ratios in 1991 were as follows: 32 percent in Wuxi, 30 percent
in ChanQghou, 43 percent in Suzhou and 59 percent in Zhenjiang.
5.10         Except for the hazardous waste/material management and emergency response
centers, which would be operated by the provincial and municipal government departments, the
various project components would be the responsibilities of the relevant industrial and utility
enteprises. These project etities would cover the debt service related to the Bank loan from
their intemal cash flows, though the municipalities themselves would have sufficient funds to
cover such debt service, If necessary. Ihe projected finances of the four project municipalities
are set out in Annex 16.
E. FINNCING OF ENVIRONMENrAL PROTECION TNVESTMENT
5.11         As noted above, investment for environmental protection in Jiangsu has to date
been inadequate; ths is pardy due to the relatively low revenue retention rates and resulta
fiscal constraintsfaced by the municipalities in the financing of public works for pollution-
control (para. 2.4). A summary of the municipal financing sources for environmental protection
in the four cities is in Anne 17. Thus far, pollution levies have been the major source of
financin for eInm    al protection in China. NEPA Is in the process of reviewing the levy
charging, collection, and allocation system under an ongoing JGF-financed study to improve the
economic and financial mechanisms for environmental management (para. 1.12). In the wake
of deepening enterprise reforms and increased aonomy at the enterprise levels, improvements
of the pollution levy system would enhance the financW incentives for polluticontrol and
increase mobilization of resources for environmental protection.
5.12         In addition to pollution levies, other sources of financing for the proposed urban
wtewater management components in Wuxi, Cbangzhou and Zhenjiang include the following:
(a)    User Charges. Consistent with the polluter pays principle, user charges for
sewerage services have been levied on nonresidental users in all thr  cides.
Sewerage charges are set by the municipal governments. Ihe charters of each
of the three newly established sewerage companies provide them with the
mandate to collect these charges, including drainage charge, centized
teatment construction fee (connection charge) and wastewater tment charge.
The caters also define the pricing principle which would allow these
companies to cover the full operating costs and debt service, and help finance
a portion of the compaunes' futre investments. The establishmentof the above
cost recovery policy is critical for sustining efficient and effective operations
of the urban services for pollution abatement.



-34 -
(b)    Municipal Govnment tnancing.  The municipal govermments would:
(i) onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan; and (ii) provide substantial
local counterpart funding in the form of equity contributions to the sewerage
companies.
F. FINANCIAL COVENANTS
5.13         The urban sewerage utilities have been restructured from municipal service
departments which operate under the government budgetary system to become autonomous, self-
supporting enterprises with increased financial accountability (para. 4.8). Separately, a similar
enterprise would be established for the implementation of the proposed hazardous material
storage and transshipment component in Wuxi. With a view to directing the municipal sewerage
companies and the hazardous material storage company toward prudent financial management,
assurances have been obtainedffrom Jiangsu Province dtat these companies would:
(a)   take all measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments and
improvements in operational efficiency, to ensure that their revenues are
sufficient to cover all operating costs, and the greater of depreciation or debt
service requirements;
(b)    maintain self-financing ratios of no less than 15 percent in 1997, and 20 percent
thereafter;
(c)    maintain debt service coverage ratios of no less than 1.2 times;
(d)    maintain total liabilities/equity ratios of no more th  70/30; and
(e)    by May 31 of each year, starting from May 31, 1993, annually furnish the Bank
with a rolling long-term financial plan (including projected income statements,
sources and uses of funds and balance sheets for a period of no less than eight
years) and exchange views with the Bank on the companies' finances, focusing
on comparison of actual financial performance with the agreed targets, operating
cost trend, future investment and related financing arrangements.
G. FINANCES OF SEWERAGE CONmPAN=
5.14         The future finances of the newly established municipal sewerage companies
(WDC, CUSC, ZWSDC and its subunit, ZDC), including major assumptions and projected
fianci staement over the period 1992 to 2000, are in Annex 18. Based on the assumption
that the minimum average tariffs would be set at levels which would allow the sewerage
companies to achieve the above financial performance targets, the finances of these companies
are forecast to be satisfactory. Salient features of their future finances are highlighted below
(rable S.1).
Taiffs
5.15         Prior to the commissioning of the proposed sewerage components, the minimum
revemue requirements for the sewerage companies in Changzhou and Zhenjiang are expected to
remain largely stable; the projected revenues from existing charges (drainage charge and



- 35 .
Ta.b. S.1  MxUNICIPAL SEwERAGE CoieANIES: KvY FMNANCmALAND AmOPRAmN IND1CATCIS
(in Mlon Yuan)
Monitoring indicators                 1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Zhenjiang Drainage Company
Wastewater volume (mdllian ton)         73    74    76    78    79    81    83    8S    87
Average tariff (Yuaalton)             0.03  0.03  0.03  0.05  0.15  0.15  0.37  0.38  0.38
Unit cost/ton of drainage             0.03  0.03  0.03  0.05  0.14  0.14  0.26  0.26  0.26
Gross operating revenue                  2     2     2     4    12    12    31    33    33
Total operating cost                     2     2     2     4    11    12    21    22    22
Net Inome                                0     0     0     0      0     0     2     4     4
let fixed assets In operation           12    12    11    10    89    85   160   151   143
Long-tern debt                           0     9    49    69    80    80    72    63    55
Total debt service                       0     0     0     0      0     0    10    14    14
Capital expenditures                     0    15    61    48    32    i9      0     0     0
Current ratio                          9.0  12.9  11.9   6.5   4.4   4.1   8.7  11.8  14.7
Debt service coverage ratio            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   1.2   1.2
Operating ratio (2)                     95   100   100   100    96   100    71    69    71
Return on average total assets (2)    0.8   0.1   0.0   0.1   1.0       0   7.1   6.2   6.3
Self financing ratio (2)                16     3     2     2    14    27    83  n.a.  n.a.
Long-term debt as 2 of
long-tern debt & equity               0    32    56    S1    49    46    43    39    35
Total debt as 2 of total debt &
equity                                 1   32    56    51    49    48    46    42    38
Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company
Wastewater volume (million ton)          8    10    10    10    10    32    32    32    32
mianum average tarif (Yuan/ton)       0.34  0.39  0.40  0.46  0.52  0.96  0.92  1.03  1.02
Unit costiton of vastewater treated  0.32  0.37  0.39  0.45  0.50  0.71  0.73  0.75  0.77
Gro*s operating revenue                  3     4     4     5      5    31    30    33    33
Total operating cost                     3     4     4     5     5    23    23    24    25
Net Income                               0     0     0     0     0      1     0     3     2
Net fixed assets In operation           16    1S    14    12    11   165   157   148   140
Long-term debt                           0     7    33    57    74    71    63    56    48
Total debt service                       0     0     0     0      0     6     9    13    12
Capital expenditures                     0    19    55    51    39      3     0     0     0
Current ratio                          4.1   4.9   6.0   6.3   6.6   9.8  12.3  14.1  15.5
Debt service coverage ratio           n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.   2.5   1.4   1.2   1.2
Operating ratio (2)                     97    99   100   100   100    77    82    75    78
Return on average total assets (2)       1     0     0     0      0     8     3     5     5
Self-fna"ncing ratio (2)                 4     1     1      1     1    55   453  n.a.  n.a.
Long-term debt as I of                   0    20    38    41    42    40    37    34    31
long-tern debt & equity
Total debt as 2 of total debt & equity  1    20    38    41    42    41    40    37    34
Uuxd Drainage Company
Wastewater volume (million ton)          7    13    18    18    30    37    37    55    64
Average tariff (Yuanlton)             0.84  0.95  0.70  0.74  0.53  0.52  0.95  0.77  0.70
Unit costlton of wastevater treated  1.34  0.84  0.66  0.70  0.51  0.47  0.70  0.52  0.51
Gross operating revenue                  6    12    13    13    16    19    35    42    45
Total operating cost                    10   11    12    13    16    17    25    28    32
Net Income                              -5     0     0     0      0     1     2     6     5
Net fixed assets in operation          114   110   105   1^'    97    93   184   206   227
Long-term debt                           5     6    21           60    73    75    76    71
Total debt service                       3     3     2            1     0    10    14    14
Capital expenditure                      0     8    37    40    46    39    20    17      5
Current ratio                          4.5   7.7   9.9  12.0  12.3  15.6  14.7  17.1  18.1
Debt service coverage                  0.1   1.9   1.8   1.9   3.7   0.0   1.2   1.2   1.2
Operating ratio (2)                    160    88    93    95    96    91    74    67    72
Returnon average assets (2)             -7     1     0      0     0     1     6     6     5
Self-financing ratio (2)               -94    15     8     6      8    15    20    50    94
Long-ter debt as S of                    4     5    13    19    24    26    25    24    23
long-tern debt & equity
Total debt as S of total debt &equlity  6      7    15    20    25    27    28    27    25



- 36 -
centralized teatment consuction charge) would allow the companies to achieve the stpulated
financial performance targets (mainly break-even covenant). However, In the absence of tariff
adjustments, the municipal governments concerned would have to provide the necessary local
counterpart fimding for the proposed sewerage components. Aftr these project componets
come into operation in 1996/97, the average tariff levels for these two companies would have
to be increased significantly mainly due to: (a) substantial increases in operatig costs which are
related to higher intensity of wastewater treatment; and (b) sharp increases in debt service
requirements.
5.16         In the case of the Wuxi Drainage Company, the first phase of Lucun trement
plant became operational in 1992. The companys unit cost is projected tO decrease with
Increased wastewater treatment volume. Thus, the minim   average tariffs required are
projected to decrease: (a) in real terms throughout the forecast period; and Ob) in current terms
during the project implementation period. After the proposed second phase Lucu treatment
plant becomes operational in 1998, the minimum average tariffs in current terms would have to
be raised to meet the increased debt service requirements.
5.17         In addition to the rationalization of tariff levels, the structure of tariff should
reflect, as far as practicable, the costs of services for different classes of conumers, and
promote water consevation and pollution abatement. In order to promote public awareness of
the above economic and environmental objectives, all the three cities are considering initiatives
to start charging residential users for sewerage services, even though cross-subsidies by other
consumers are expected to contine. Based on a preliminary proposal of Changzhou Sewerage
Company, a wastewater treatment fee of Y 0.1/ton is planned to be collected from residential
users in the near future. The present average household income in Changzou is about
Y 157/month; the proposed wastewater treament fee would amount to about 1.5 percent of the
average household income and should therefore be affordable to the residential users.
Assurances have been obtaWnedfrom Jiangsu Provine  ea e*of the three mdldpal sewerage
companies  uld cany out stdies on the desgn of both he kvels wnd s=rcure of sewrage
tar(i7s In accrdance with the scope agreed  ih the Bank by June 30, 1994. The agreed Terms
of Reference of the sewerage tariff studies are in Annx 19.
5.18         While pollution levies are collected and admistr  by the local EPBs, they are
of staegic importance to achieving effective water pollution control as an adjunct to the
sewerage charges. In partcular, the water quality master plans for all three cities have
concluded that it is cost-effective to combine the treatment of indust  and domestic wastewater;
targeted industries should discharge to the municipal sewerage systems rather than directly to the
water bodies. Thus, pollution levies should be set at levels higher than those of (a) full
individual treatment costs; and (b) pretreatment costs and sewerage charges in order to provide
financial incentives to enterprises for cost-effective water pollution control. In this conLection,
it is essental for the local EPBs to participate in the seweage tariff studies. As noted above,
the current levels of pollution levy should be reassessed and adjusted as appropriate.
BilUng and Collection
5.19         For the Zhenjiang Water Supply and Drainage General Company, the water
supply company would carry out the billing and collection of both water supply and sewerge
charges as an inegrated water usage fee. Internationally, this has genealy proved to be the most
efficient and effective method of billing and collection of sewerage charges. In the case of the



- 37 -
Wuxi and Changzhou sewerage companies, sewerage charges from industrial and commercial
users would continue to be collected through direct debits of their bank accounts; such an
arrangement has proved to be effective in timely collection of payments. As noted above,
wastwater treatment charges for residential users are planned to be introduced in the near
future. Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company has proposed to pay a service chage to the
Changzhou Water Supply Company which would act as the agent to collect these charges from
the residenti users. The Wuxi Drainage Company is expected to make similar arangements
for the collection of residential charges.
fIanda Risks
5.20         Given the capital-intensive nature of the urban wasewater management system,
the sewerage companies have a high percentage of fixed costs in their operting cost structure.
Thus, a major financial risk faced by the sewerage companies is related to the quanity of
vastewater collection and treatment which would, in turn, be critically dependent on the pace
of sewer connections. To mitigate this financal risk, the schedule of implementation for the
proposed sewage treatment schemes has been synchronized with that of the sewerage networks
to collect the wastewater. Further, to ensure timely project implementation, satictory project
anagement arrangements, including the requisite technical assistance and training, would be
provided under this project.
IL FNANC  OF HAZARDouS MATERIAL STORAGE AND TRADING COMPANY
5.21         The projected financial statements of the newly established Wuxi Hazardous
Material Storage and Trading Company (WMSC) during the period 1993-2000, along with major
financial assumptions for the financial forecast, are presented in Annex . WMSC's pricing
proposal has been cleared by the Municipal Department of Chemical Industry; this Is subject to
apprval by the Municipal Pricing Bureau. Based on WMSC's pricing proposal of Y 3/ton/day
for storage and Y 30/ton for loading and unloading of hazardous materias, the company's fuure
finances are forecast to be satisfactory. Its projected debt service coverage ratios would range
from 1.4 to 2.2 times. Its tota liabilities/equity ratios would reach a peak of 57/43 in 1994 and
decrease gradually to about 31/69 in the year 2000. With a view to refining the levels and
structure of the tarif&, a study similar to the sewerage tariff study outlined In Annex 19 would
be carried out by WMSC. Assurances have been obanedfom Jangsu thatlte WMSC would
cany ou a sudy on hazardous material storage and transshlpmem tarfs In accordance with
the tems of refJrence agreed with die Bank by June 30, 1994.
L  FNNCES OF NUSTRIAL PoLumoN CONTROL SuBPOJECs
5.22         As some of the priority pollution control subprojects are, by amte, not
fincially productive, the financial appraisal of industrial pollution control subprojects would
focus on the financial viability of the subproject entities. The key considerations in this
asssment include the enterprise's development goals and strategy, product mix and market
analysis, investment requirements and related financing arrangements, and projected financial
performance in terms of profitability, liquidity and debt sericing capabilities. With a view to
promoting prudent financial management, the agreed subproject selection criteria calls for the
entiy to maintin a debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.4 times after the proposed
subproject has reached full production capacity.



- 38 -
6
ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVlIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATION
A. PRoJEcr JusTIcATION
6.1          The justification of this project Is based on the following considerations:
(a)   the project would yield a substantial reduction in water pollution, thus protecting
the environment in Southern Jiangsu and the health of Its people;
(b)   the provincial/municipal authorities are committed to  improving the
environment, have established the organizational framework for environmental
management, and are willing to increase resources for environmental
improvement;
(c)   the project would support high priority investments in the Southern iangsu
region that would achieve appropriate environmental targets in the most cost-
effective way; and
(d)   the project would support important institutional measures to improve the
enabling environment for pollution abatement, including improvements in
monitoring and enforcement of enviromIental regulations, corporatization of
sewerage utilities and establishment of sound cost recovery policies for these
pollution abatement services; the above measures are essential for achieving the
longer term environmental goals in the region.
6.2          The proposed urban sewerage components also produce quantifiable economic
benefits, and for these a limited benefit-cost analysis has been made. It is not possible to
conduct a comprehensive benefit-cost analysis for a single environmental project, since any
measurable environmental improvement can only be realized through substantial additional
investnts and successful regulatory efforts by the environmental agencies. Also, most of these
benefits are in the form of improved health and personal well-being, and cannot be quantified
prelwy.
B. PROJOCr BENEFITS
6.3          The proposed project would significantly mitigate enironmea degradation and
result in both economic and social benefits for Southem Jiangsu. Specifically, the Industri
polluton control subprojects have been designed to achieve both pollution reduction and
improvements in operational efriciency through structral transformation to more efficient and



-39 -
cleaner tecinology, waste minimiion, recycling and reuse, and as appropriate, product
upgrading. These subprojects would effectively integrate both envionental and economic
objectives. Further, water pollution control at indus  sources would translate into reduced
costs for water treatment and urban domestic water supply. In addition, health benefit would
accrue from the reduction of water-borne diseascs and control of toxic/hazardous wastes.
Moreover, improved water quality under the project would benefit irrgation, fish firming,
navigation, land value and tourism In the region. Finally, the project would contribute to the
sustinability of environmenal management in the region by the demoation of cost-effective
pollution control measures and by strengthening local capabilities In the design, monitorig and
enforcement of appropriate policies and regulations.
C. INDUSTRIAL POLUTON CONTROL COMPONErSS
6.4          Ihe economic appraisal of the industrial pollution subprojects will, inter alia,
have to demonstrate that the enterprise merits support and that closure of the processes
generating the pollution is not the most cost effective or economic solution. This would be
demonstrated by showing that with the proposed subproject the enterprise would be economicaly
viable and genetate a positive net present value (NPV) with a discount rate of 10 percent. In
addition, the appraisal would also have to show that all feasible solutions had been examined and
that e solution proposed was the most cost-effective, as indicated by the NPV of the subproject.
6.5          The subprojects under the project would address serious water poltutionproblems
that have been identified by the local EPBs. T, addition to the significant enviome    and
economic benefits of the proposed investmentE ie apprais methods and criteia adopted unde
this project (para. 3.10) would build up the capabilities of the municipalies and their appraisal
agent, CIB Jiangsu Branch, to analyze and implement sound industrial pollution contol projects.
In particular, the focus of the appraisal criteria in encouraging technical ansormton to
minimize the production of pollutants, is valuable in countern  the tendency in China of
adoping the generally less cost-effective approach of end-of-pipe treatment.
D. UAN WASTEWAm MANAGEmET CompoENS
6.6          The proposed sewerage components are the initial stage of a longer tem, least-
cost strategy for each city to achieve stated water quality objectives for all the major water
bodies in the region. These components would result in a substantal reduction of pollution
loading on exensive lengths of the Grand Canal, other rivers and canals within le urban areas,
the Yangtze River at Zhenjiang and, to a lesser extent, on Taihu. The greatest ironm
impacts will be felt In the densely developed urban areas alongside the main In-city wateways
of all these three cities, and the Inmer Harbor of the Yangtze River at Zhenjiang.
6.7          EconomI Rate of Return. Based on the feasibility studies prepared by the
municipalities with the assistance of international consultants, an attempt has been made to
quantify the following project benefits resulting from improved water quality:
(a)   improvemen in land values-the project cities have tree to five land valuation
caegories; the provision of sewerage services and the resultant removal of
malodours generated by the canal system would lead to an improvement of one
grde of land values adjacent to the canals;
(b)   increase in agricultural and fishedes production;



-40 -
(c)   reductions in public water supply costs-improved quality of water supply Itk
would help reduce the treatment and maintennce costs of the water supply
systms. In addition, industry could resume abstraction of harbour and cana
waters, thereby reducing the demand on the public potable water supply system
and allowing for deferral or avoidance of additional water supply investments;
(d)   similar to (c) above, improved water quality would result In reducts of
industrial water supply costs;
(e)   improvements in public health through reduction of water-induced illnesses
which account for a significant share of all illnesses in the project cities;
(f)    I ovm     in navigation-the proposed sewerage components would result
in reduction of industdal wastewater sludge deposition and related dredging costs
in the watercourses; and
(g)   improved water quality would help increase tourism and related income to the
cities.
6.8          The economic analyses of the sewerage components in each of the three cities,
Wuid, ZhenJiang and Changzhou, are shown in Annex 21. On average, the economic rate of
retur of the swerage comnntis estimated at 16 percent. The economic rates of return for
te proposed sewerage components in the three cities are estimated as follows:
JZe2ang        WU&       iaagzhou
Base case                     14%          16%          17%
20% costoverrun               11%          13%          13%
6.9          Absence of data and the inability to quantify water quality imprvemens beyond
the ciRY aea has prevented the analysis from inclusion of dowstream benefits, which are
expected to include improvements to public health, agriculture and fisheries, and land values.
Exclusion of these benefits means that the economic rates of return of the prwposed project
conments are udested, which may be particularly significant since the benefts from the
sewerage treatm    plants accrue almost entirely to dowmstrm users of the Grand Canal and
Taihu.
E PNojzr RIK
6.10         To reduce risk of delay in implementation of the poject which covers multiple
cities, sectors and agencies, agement has been obtained from Jiangsu Province to ensure an
adequate and timely flow of local counterpart funding as well as satisfacry angements for
project magement, including the main     of project management offices at both the
provncial and municipal levels with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank. Further, the
reqWise technical assistance and training in project implementation would be provided under the
project. Much work, beyond that of the present proposed project, would still be required before
the long term goas of environ l improvement can be reached. In view of the commiment
by the prvcW    and municipal govments to implement a comprehensive en
strategy and action plans, including m ures to improve the enabling environment for poluti
abatemenfafts to contiue environmental protection work are epetd to be sustained.



-41 -
7
AGREEMENTS REACHIED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1          During negotiations, assurances have been obtaned fm the (oveaent of
China (GO) that the proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to Jlagu Povince for 15
years, including 5 years of grace, at 85 percent of the Bans standard varabl nterst at.
Jiangsu Province would bear the commitment charges and Zordsl ex g risks, except those
that are borne by the municipalities to whom they oldend.
7.2          Assurances have been obtained from Jiangu Pvice that it would onlend the
loan proceeds to the four municipalities at no less than 85 percent of the Baks standad variable
interst rate and on the tems set out in para. 7.1 above, and that  would or would cause the
mnicipal goverments, to carry out the following:
(a)   implement the stategy and action plans agreed with the Bank fr envronment
mnanagement in Southern Jiangsu and each of the four  icipalities (para.
2.10);
(b)   prepare and promulgate operati  rles for muniepal sewerage sysems no later
tha October 1, 1993 and implement these rues theeafter [pa  2.18(b)];
(c)    prepare and promlgate the relevant provicW  and municipal reQgins, safety
and opeating rules for the proposed haardous wae and materi maageme
omxponens no later than October 1,1993 and Impleimt themereaftr [para.
2.18(c)1;
(d)   establish and opeate the eniromental revolving fud undor pocedures agreed
with the Bank (par 3.7);
(e)   follow the procedures and criteria for industri subproject appa     aisfactoy
to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(M    carry out training in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank (para.
3.22);
(g)    maintain the leading groups and project manaeme  officos at both the
provincW and municipal levels with fimctions and stffing satiaDoy to tho
Bank (paa 3.30);
(h)    opate sasfa toryonlexdingarrangements, including oledg Ito tho industrial
subprojects, municipal sewerage companes, and hazardous materi stoag



-42 -
company; the commitment charges and foreign exchange risks would be borne
by all the project entities (par. 3.35);
(i)    carry out resettlement of persons affected by the project In a manner and
according to a schedule which Is satisfactory to the Bank, and report on the
progress of carrying out the resettlement plan using monitoring indicators
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.44);
(J)    submit the following annual audits to the Bank within six months after the end
of each fiscal year: (i) audited financial statements on the project accounts; and
(Ii) audited financial statements of the three municipal sewerage companies and
hazardous material storage company (para. 5.7);
(k)    cause each of the three municipal sewerage companies and hazardous mateial
storage company to ensure that their revenues are sufficient to cover all
operring costs, and the greater of depreciation or debt service requirements
[par. 5.13(a)];
a1)    cause each of the three municipal sewerage companies and hazardous materal
storage company to maintain self-financing ratios of no less than 15 percent in
1997, and 20 percent thereafter [para. 5.13(b)];
(m)   ensure that the debt service coverage ratios of each of the three mnicipal
sewerage companies and hazardous material storage company would be no less
than 1.2 times (para. 5.13(c)];
(n)    ensure that the total liabilities/equity ratios of each of the three municipal
sewerage companies and hazardous material storage company to be no more than
70/30 [parm. 5.13(d)];
(o)    cause each of the three municipal sewerage companies and the hazardous
mterial storage company to furnish to the Bank a rolling long-term financial
plan by May 31 of each year and review their future finances with the Bank
[para. 5.13(e)];
(p)    carry out tariff studies for sewerage operations and hazardous matei storage
and transshipment (paras. 5.17 and 5.21).
7.3          Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the municipalities and the
three sewerage companies and hazardous material storage company, satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.35), would be a conditon for loan effectiveness.
7.4           The following would be conditions for disbursement for the urban wastewater
management components: (a) all the existing municipal sewerage treatment plants under the
project would have obtained wastewater discharge permits for their existing operations and
temporay discharge permits for the operation of the proposed project components (par. 2.18);
and (b) the provision of resettlement plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for all three project cities
(para. 3.44).



-43 -
7.5          With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $250 million equivalent fbr a period of 20 years. including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable intrest rate, to thfe People's Republic of China.



A44-
ANNEXES



2  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ttttit   tI i It  9   ll..llQ0 AWM
RI                                                  At~~~~~IAl    n3IIAIA
IjIl      A      AA [       AAA   A              A A    A    A A         U
~~~~~A  AA~~~~~~~~~~~ 
bIt~~ A              clP p.aca                                                  p @ g tlc -ll;vpI



-46-                                ANE    I
Air EnioitlQualit Standard
Chinee Standad GB 30954S
Air eirnetlqualit is divided into dure cla.ses as follows:
Class I     Requied for th potctin f aura ecolog and human hlh from
hbav    effect under lng tm exposure.
Class       Requird for the proection, of humn halth and aimal a  vegeaton
in  ban an rurl areas against harmf conditons tot can ar
undr long and hot term expoe.
clhm        Requirod for the proction of human cofmmifies agist acute or
clrnic toxic illnesses, and for nomal growth of animal and vegetaton
Ife (except for ho  with allergic condit ).
The 1miting values of the air polltans for the thre standards
ae listed m to table bdow.
StrnthTLij MWtddWm3
Pollutant             Saplng rime              Cls I        Class         C cimI
Total Suspended         Daily Aveag               0.15          0.30         0.50
Solids                Any Inident**            030           1.00          1.50
Dust                    Daily Ava                 00S          0.15          0.2
Any UIncident                          0.50          0.70
SuWphur Dioxide         Yery Averag***            0.02         0.06          0.10
Daily Avwa               0.0Q          0.15          0.25
Any liidntUS                           O.SO          0.70
Nilrous Oxides          Daily Avre                0.05         0.10          0.15
_Any icide               0.10          0.15          0.30
Carbon Monoxide         Daily Avea                4.00         4.00          6.00
Any _ _ _crident         10.00         10.00        20.00
Light Chemistry         One Hour Avrge            0.12         0.16          0.20
Oxidation ReagWnt
(0 3 )                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
*       'Daily averae refer to th 11.1 which wast no be exceeded by the averag of
the =wn t        oak in a day.
ayli  ncdnt'reer to the Ult whic mms amt be exceded by any mmul takes
aYeiry Averafe to th lmt which aust aboeed by t aveap in a
ya of t didy aerae meased.
T.S.P.      T    uededsoli refe to pacua whicaesmalt           O 1mron
Dust        Du rfs to pariulat which sm l thn 10 micom This Mm s a
refernc tandad only.
Ozon LtO Chemiry Oxidato Rsaan (03), one how aea vau shuld ad be
exoeded once in a month.



-47 -                                   AN= 2
ENVONMEAL IMPROVEMNT MONMTRING
INDICATORS
These  environmental improvement monitoring  Indicators  are  based  on
eavimental improveme  objectives developed by the Environmental Protecton Bureaus of
the four cities, and assumes needed investment for environmental quality improvement in
addition to dds project would be made, and enforcement of environmental quality control would
be strengthened.
Sedor                    1990                      199S                       2000
Water Quarty    AU drnkg wat sowucs    Al drig watw sources            Drining water sources
achi/approach Cls 11-m   achieeapprach Clam 8I        achieve Cla  U stadard at
standards. fCls V standard  standards. Southern secdon of 95% rat. Clam M d ar
for moat water. 20%       the Grand Canal and moa     to southen stion of the
domestc  watewa treated.  achie  Chss IV standard     Grnd Canal at Suzhou.
(Class l for important soenic  Municipl wastet
waterways). Municipd        rat  ate rweaches 80%.
waswater teatment rate      Water drawn frm Lake Tal
rea   60% leve. Water    to flush old oily's waterways.
dran  from Sbiiyang Rie
to flush old  's wateways.
Air Quality      Clas  dUtan   for ambient Maintain Class m standard;    Cass   standard for the City;
urbn ai quality. S2.3% of  approach Class U standard.    Clas I stand   for sceni
ciy rednt usi  muicpal   Municipal gs for t           aeas. Municipal gas for
gas.                       esidents icreased from      85% of City residenT".
pet S2.3% to 80%.
Solid Waste     1009        Aesdo rfos       mely pickup of uban       Sanituy  ndtfiling of 100%
coloi  , sniai  uniL   domestic refus reaches 100%. of domestic efus.
Integrted rs inrased to    Itegred teuse exeeds
90%.                        95%.
Indusa          73%S of indust  wastaw   80% of industril waswt    85% of industrialwata
Pnlluon         treated. Idustrial COD     treated. Indusal COD.       trted. COD,. educed by
Cotol           disc       33,000           educed by 40%. No moe    50% or more.
tosyea. Industr  was       ndutia expansion witin
gp  emisio  an 14.5       City limts; 10 mnJot pouter
billion mlyear, at 95.4%  to be relocated, cw.4 1anual
tPSaIment rate. Smoko    air po1ltion by 327 mihion
paTl emision Is 11,600   tons of waste gses, 427 toms
tonyar. Inusl dust    of sot and 36.5 tns of SO.
e    _mIso  are 6,900     65Z of industr  waste gses   8S% of hutrl wate gases
toner. 92% of solid       tratd; proces dust reduced   and proess dust redwoed.
Wdustral wast itgUtd    by 75%.
uts



-48 -                                    ANNEX2
Sector                   1990                      1995                         2000
ZHENJIANG
Water Quaklty    Class n standard for       Class U standard for Zhenjiang Class U standard for
Zhenjiang sootion of the   sction of the Yangtze River.   Zheqjiang section of the
Yangtze River. Under Class  Class Im standard for the  Yangtze River.
IV standard for the ^innr    'inner river sootion of th  Clsil m standard for th
rivere section of the Yangtz   Yangtzo River. Class V    Inner riverm adjaoent to the
River adjacent to Zhenjiang   standard for the urbn secdon   Zhenjiang City.
City. Under Class I        of the Grand Canal Under    Class m standard for the
standard for the suburban  Class m standard for the    urban setion of tho Grand
section of the Grand Canal.  suburban section of the Grsnd  Canal
Under Cass V standard for   Canal. Under Class V       Under Class I standard for
the Yun Liang River.      standard for the Yun Liang    the suburban section of tho
River.                      Grand Canal.
Under Class lt standard for
the Yun Liang River.
Air Quality     Class m   standard for scenio  Class m standard for scenic    Class 1 standard for scenic
areas.                     aroas.                      areas.
Under Class m standard for  Class U standard for urban  Class U standard for usban
urban areas.               areas.                      areas.
20 tons/month dust deposits   Under 20 tons/month dust  Fewer than 20 tons/month
in uban aress.             deposits in uban aroas.     dust deposits in urban areas.
Sold Wase        120,000 tondyear of        140,000 tons/year of domestic  190,000 tons of domestic
Management      domestic refuse produced,   refuse produced, 60% taken to  refuse tanp    to East
with 40% taken to           entralized landfilling.    aide city lndfil site.
enalzed landfing.                                      70% of wates treated to
san       ladfill standard.
ndustrIal       40% of industrial wastwater 50% of industrial wasteter   100% of indusil
Wastes          treated and compLies with    treated and complying with  wastwater treated, 60% up
Treamet         sandards.                  standards.                   to standards.
45% of industrial water    50% of industrial water     50460% of industrial water
recycled.                  recycled.                   recycled.
60% of industrial waste gas   70% of industrial waste gas    85% of industrial waste gas
emission sources trMated.  emission sources trcated.   emission sources teated.
5% of tho urban area       80% of urban area supplied    50% of urban area supplied
suppHed with municipal     with municaipal heating.    with municipal heating.
heating.                   100% integated uilization of  100% integrated utilization of
10% integrated utildzon of  white mud from the pulp mill.  white mud from the pulp
white mud" from the pulp   80% utiization of ash from  mill.
maL                        thc power plant, remaining  35% utilization of ash from
10% utlnizon of ash from    part stored.               the power phat and the rest
the power, the rest either  80% solid waste utilization  stored.
flushed into the Yangtz    from me,talurgicl, chemical,  80% solid wast utilztion
River or stored.           pharmacal and mining        from metallurgal chemical,
60% solid wast utilizaon   industies.                  pharmaceutical and mining
from metallurgical,                                    industies.
chemical, pharm   icl  and
mining industries.



-49-                                    A
Sector                  1990                      1995                       2000
CHANGZHOU
Water Quality   (a) Class m stda  above  (a) same as 1990             (a) Class m standard, due to
water works of the canal, but                         oletion of th projct
Class IV during dry season
(b) Class V/nV b e the    m) same as 1990             (b) Claa IV standuad
water works and Chaoyang
Bridge
(c) Class V or below beyond  (c) same as 1990         (c) Class IVV standard
Chaoyang Bridge
(d) Below ClasVstandard  (d) Class IVN for South     (d) Clss IV for South Cansl,
for southern tributaries of the Canal, below Class V for  Class V for Datong Rivr and
Grnd Canal including South  Datong River and Chaling  Chaing River
Canal, Daton Rrver and    River
Chaing River
(e) Class JV/l standard for  (e) Class IV standard for  (e) Class IV standard for
nothern tributaries of the    Dingtang River and Zhaogang  Dingtang River and
Grand Canal including     River.                      Zhaogang River.
Dingtang River and
Zhaogang River.
Air Qualy       Medium level polution for   Pollutants dischargc would  Overall ambient environment
he general ambient        increase due to industial   should not deteriorate,
environment, Clas m       development, control objective  maintaining Clss m standard
standard for SO2 and TSP    is to achieve Class m standard  fr SO%, Clas 1 standard for
or discharges of£ () S02 <  TSP and NO., or dihaes
30.6 thou. tons/year, (u) NO.  of (i) SO%, 30.6 thou.
< 39.9 thou. tons/year, and   tonsJyear () NO. < 26.6
(iii) smoke dust < 34 thou.   thou. tons/year, and (ii)
tons/year                  smole dust < 25.5 thou.
tons/year
Domesic Solid   Al domestic garbage       The mophilic treatent for    100% treated by sanitary
Waste           colected, tianspoited to   150 tons/day of domesdc     _ndfiUing
suburban, bxdiiled or       arbage and sludge
conmosted
Industrial      Total COD disharge was    Total COD disch argewM be   Total COD dichae  wil be
Pollution       23.3 tbou. tons, 40% treated; 26 thou. tons, 50% reated;    18 ,tu. tO, 70% tAted;
Control         80% of solid waste utilized;  85% of solid wastes utilized;   85% of solid wa    utilized;
50% of waste gas treated  65% of waste gues tted      85% of waste gses teated



- 50 -                                    ANNB 2
Sector                    1990                       1995                         2000
WUXI
Water Qualit     All drinking war sources    Classm  standard for Wu Li   Cas H stndad for the
qualt achieved Class U     and Moi Ling Lk.              two lha.
dard.                      Clu TV standa  for Xi Chi   Cls HIV standard fot
cdi  H standard for pat of  Cal, th ne  canal and       ths waways.
water.                      Liang Xi Riwr.
38% domesta wastewater    Class V standard for the Grand Cm  IV sandard achrievd;
treated.                    Canal soction entering the old  dirt and odor removed.
Cass IV-V stadard for most urban area.
section of Great Cmal.
Air Q t          Class   standard for ambiaet  Class I standard for Xi Hui, Li Cls I stendard for hes
urban air quality. 30% of    Lake, Mei Liang Lake, Ma    ars.
city esident using municipa   Shan and Long Chi natual
gas.                       protecdon areas.
Cas U sandard for city's     Class 1   standard for these
commrci an residential       areas.
aeas and suburbs.
Class m stdd for industrial Cass  H  standard for
areas.                       indusial arn.
Soid Waste       Treament facilit for        100% of municipal solid waft   Municipl solid waste system
municipa solid waste       collected and santary         complsted.
(refuse) indated. Daily    landfiled.
capacity is 100 tons.      Toxic/hzardous solid wast     THSW sytm expanded.
MEW) dpooraiocmed
consuuctd.                   SWRC & NRC sydem
Solid waste vegier conter    progsively completed.
SWRC) and eme cy
reapo    cent (ERC)
demontrao poect
constructed.
Toxic/haardous mateials
wansporation and storge
stem comoleed.
Industril        37.6% of industrial         COD discharg of al is        COD discha   is 29,000
Polution         wa twa  teated.             30,000 tons/year.             tons/year.
Control          Indusrial COD discbare is  60% of indudrial watwar    90% of industrial wasteer
30,500 tons/year. Iodustrial  teated.                    treated.
waste gs emissions are     50%  etmn   rate for          80%  _atent rae for
1.21 million mJ/year, at 76%  domestic watewae.          dometic wastewae.
teatenet ate. Industrial    80% treatment rat for        95% tratmeont rte for
dust emssios are 530,000   industril we gas and solid  indusrial waste gVs and solid
tons/year. 72% of solid     waste.                       wate.
indusrial waste integrated
utilized.



-51-                      NNEX 
TblegfCont
SOUTIN JIANGSU ENViRONMENTAL STRATEGY AND
ACTION PLANS
CONTENIS
I.  SouthernmJipu Region  ....................................  52
A. hintoduction ........  52
B.  overau Strate  forWaweQudityMangement ........   56
C. OverlStaey forAirPollutionControl         ........  61
D. Strategy forSolidandHazardous WafteManagement. ..63
IL in""lProject Cities            ........ 64
Envrnmental Objectives ...........  64
A. Suzhou Municipaity ........                                .    65
B. W.73
C. Changzhou Municipity .7....... 
D. Zhenjiang Municipalty ........   1
TABLE
1.  Highligs of Southern liapu War Quality Master Plan ....      ....  55
2.  Fftn Main Ptindpal Pollute in Southern Jianu ........   59



-52-                             ANNEX3
SOUITERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY AND
ACTION PLANS
I. SOUTHERN JIANGSU REGION
A. JNTRODUCrION
1.           Southern Jiangsu is the portion of the province which lies south of the Yangtze
River (Chang Jiang). This region has four cities under the jurisdiction of the provincial
government: Zhenjiang, Changzhou, Wuxi, and Suzhou. Zhenjiang is located on the south
shore of the Yangtze River and the confluence with the Grand Canal in the north. Changzhou
is located on the Grand Canal downstream to the south, Wuxi further south along the Grand
Caa, and Suzhou south of the Wuxi on the Grand Canal. In terms of industrial production
capacity, Suzhou is the largest, followed by Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang. Taihu (Lake Tai)
Is the largest of many lakes and is located south of Wuxi.
The Vital Resource
2.           Surface water resources are central to the history and future of Southern Jiangsu.
A section of the Grand Canal connects the city of Zhenjiang in the north with Hangzhou near
the Yellow Sea to the south of the province. There is a densely scattered water network of
rivers throughout the province and several major lakes, including Taihu, located to the south of
the Grand Canal. Ihese surface water resources are the main sources of domestic water supply,
irrigation and aquaculture, and serve also as the receiving waters for industrial and municipal
waste. Each of the four man cities include a lattice work of canals and rivers. The Yangtze
River, the Grand Canal, and the network of waterways serve also for transportation in the
region.
An Overall Enromuental Assessment
3.           The Jiangsu Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB), in conjunction with the
EPB's of the four cities, have assembled an extensive database on current pollution levels in
surface water, groundwater, and air, and has identified the contributors of the environmental
pollution. This database and analysis is quantitative and comprehensive. From this analysis of
the pollution problems of Jliangsu, a framework for environmental protection and pollution
abatement strategy has been developed. The relative magnitude of the problems has been used
to prioritize management stra. Water pollution, particularly in the Grand Canal, has been
idendfied as the major environmental problem and a threat to public health. Pollution of water
bodies has forced industrW  facilities to seek altrnate water supplies, exerig pressure on
groundwater and municipal supplies. Some of these facilities have no options but to instl



-53 -                           ANNEX 3
expensive pretreatment plants. Fisheries also have been adversely impacted, with attendant loss
of revenues.
Water Pollution, Urban Areas
4.           The Grand Canal has a total length of 197 kilometers in southern Jiangsu and
is the main water source for industry and agriculture, as well as the main water conduit in
southen Jiangsu. The Grand Cana and other nearby canals and rivers in all four cities Is higbly
polluted and is characterized by anoxic, black malodorous waters which will not support fish life.
The pollution problems In the Grand Canal are mainly organic in origin with chemical oxygen
demand (COD), phenol and petoleum contaminating the water as well. The water quality in
the four major cities is at or below the lowest standard of the Chinese water quality scale.
The Yangtze River
5.           The Yangtze River near the city of Zhenjiang is highly polluted in the near shore
area. One of Zhenjiang's three municipal water supply intakes is polluted.
Taihu
6.           Taihu is quite large and is used as a water supply. Most of the waters in Talhu
are of good quality. However, near rivers and bays along which township and village industries
have grown, there are growing pollution problems. The main pollutants in Taihu are near the
banks of the lake and are organic in origin as well. The excess quantities of nitrogen and
phosphorous are leading to eutrophication problems in the lake.
Groundwater
7.           Groundwater is used for potable supply and industrial use in Suzhou and
Changzhou Cities. Overexploitation of the groundwater resource has resulted in an alarming
drop in the water table (up to 58 m) and soil subsidence of up to one meter. Agricultual
chemicals have also polluted the water table aquifer with nitrates, ammonia and phenol. In
certain areas, the confined aquifers are also polluted.
Air Pollution
8.           Air pollution is not currendy at a critical level in the region. However, in the
absence of adequate pollution abatement measures, air pollution is emerging as a serious problem
in the future. Airborne toxics from industrial facilities are a recognized problem in Suzhou.
Emissions from small brickmaking operations have caused large losses in the silkworm industry.
Noise
9.           Noise levels in all of the cities are above national standards.



- 54-                                    3
Ran_ing of Polluion Problem
10.          Polluters have becn ranked according to their contribution to pollution loadings
to air and water. The main contrbutors to pollution problems in Southern Jiangsu are ranked
as follows:
(a)   Industria disharges to surface water which exceed standard limitations account
for 70 to 80 percent of the total pollutants discharged;
(b)    Municipal wastewater discharges which exceed limitations account for 20 to 30
percet of the total pollutant loading and are the largest single contributor to
water pollution;
(c)    Noise generated by automotive traffic and ships;
(d)    Air emissions from cars and trucks;
(e)    Dichages of waewater and waste oil from ships; and
(f)    Agricultural chemical ferilizers and pesticides.
Factors That Exacerbate the Problems
iI.          Several factors intensify the impact of these environmental problems:
-     Indutal facilities are often located within residential areas, dicharging their
wastewaters upsteam of water users air con     upwind of the major city
areas.
*     Coal is used almost exclusively as an industria fuel and is the major domesdc
fuel in the region. Emissions from burning of domesdc coal are near the ground
and intensify the pollution problem.
*     The popuadon density is growing quicldy in the cities and the available green
areas are disappeing. Green areas in the cities are also giving way to
constructon of new waterways and roads.
*     'he aggregate mix of the industrial base consists of too many enterprises which
are highly polluting and large energy consumers including chemicals, foodstuf&,
and constuction materials.
*     A shortage of sewers and combined rainfall and sanitary sewer systems
excacrbate pollution problems in the inner cities. The city waterways are used
to make up for the shortfals and become sewage channels.
*     New naigatin channels have lowered the flow rate in certain rivers, the
reduced flushing action has resuted in degraded water quality.
*     The technologies used in the industri facilities are generally old and do not
aIncorporte state-of-the-art energy consvation or resource recycling.



- S-                                           ANN55       3
*        There has been a rcent draratc Increase in both automotive transporto  and
shipping, together with an icrease In air pollution from these sources. There
are no current limdtations or mandatory controls In automotive emissions.
*        Lastly, the resources of the local EPBs, fall short of requirements in terms of
personnel, traiing, and equipment.
Table 1: HIGHLGHs OF SOUIHERX JIANGSU WATER QUALM MASF  PLAN
Sbort term (1991-3000)             Vid-tore (2001-2010)
atlty oet l
(LzShau tILi, Changh_4                       IV-V                             III.Kv
Other secti.                                    Il                              II-I
Urban rdvers                                      V                                  nY
Tel Lake
Back                                         K??                               K-K
Lak body                                  iK (COD)                             K-II
Tte goal f.i ndustri  pollution                    r                             010, t O          r d ad
reduction                     bravery reduce COD 70.000 tI ear.  to )0,000-SS.0000 tI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nw,Goar.4
2 To reduce COD 32.000 tl  r
central tretmst. IK 10.00,
reduce th pollutton dshar  to
S3,800 tlr.
hvrotmeutsl ma_agesont of TYS         (1) Etebla smangemt etrateg            (1) Spread experine of pilot project
(2) make eApiot project for           (2) Crry zt pollutant utSisatic
facltisc ad crc~l treatment            ehog
Urbas domstic sewa  pollution
-o-y increased teatmet capacity  0.35 million tid                         0.4 millon tid
A     istrtio                      To *tablih       " company *   t  o                  "     t   e t
fian   aly   af.suppo rting   and       o
Pollutersa ps_uent                 Cb         redenti  carg   it          So peet r        n            c   off
subsi-dy                         goenenta ubaidy
Tail vter di     g  it ChIa X8n
River after treatment
Trat  eim   (sedimentation afttr adding                                   Secondary (bidhmical tretmt)
Tal water 4disharin  iLto          0.275 million td     d                 0.o9-0.9 mio. tId
Cbeng                                 am=z   0.125 m1$eo  tld
Transfer water ino the Canl
Changahou                          Draw 64 VIe  water of Chandting River  -
to the Canl through Deshg River
smii                               ftm 3D 0 We water of Ta Lael to the   --
Caa
Suxhon                             Brm4 aPlse water of TaYgobn L_   iTaS   rW  40 VIe wer of Tet LS k to the
Lake to iter city rivera              Canal
Prtetio  of unergound watet            Centrol exploitatio   rtional         To prftet admistratio  and
resource                              irr       , pret Lak,  l     n 1- s                   I
wte raore
discharge levy                         (1) Rase induatrial discarg  e   by  To pefet oraiztions and
(2) Try to levy iabitato d r
in Ehenjiang, Cb*9hauao  n   z
Administation ant leislati            (1)  stablis  swae coup. Is cities    TO perfect aminiatrati  atm
dm= itratio  eed  fraet     for 
alloasting    Lake Villa9 wa
linego                                 (1) Colect I 0.12 billio  investment    eting the goal's nd
to control industria pollution
(2) Collet   25-40 millio Investment
to control dmestic son
treatm



-56-                             ANN    3
B. OVEMRAL STRATEGY FOR WATER QUALrrY MANAGEMENT
Industrial Water Use
12.          The Yangtze River supplies 45 percent of the industrial water supplies in the
region, while the Grand Canal supplies 50 percent. Groundwater is used for industrW supply
in the cities of Suzhou and Changzhou. Power plants are the biggest consumers of freshwater,
using 69 percent of the total volume used for industry.
13.          Water Conservation In Industries. The water recycling rate for industrial users
is 17.1 percent in the region. If power plants that do not recycle their water are subtracted from
the figures, the overall industrial water recycling rate is on average 47.5 percent. Water
recycling will be encouraged in the main polluting enterprises, including pulp and paper, power
generation, metallurgy, petrochemical, and textiles. Greater water recycling will be achieved
in these various sectors by means of technical renovation, changing raw material usage in
products, as well as strengthening management.
14.          IndusIal Wastewater. Only 53.1 percent of the total volume of industrW
wastewater discharged in the region meets industrial discharge standards. Less than half the
industral wastewaters generated is treated, where only 37.9 percent of the industrial wastewater
is generated in the county receives any type of treatment. Those industrial wastewaters which
do receive treatment in the urban areas achieve about a 74 percent rate of reaching the discharge
standards, where only 40 percent of the industrial discharges that are treated in the counties
reach industrial discharge standards.
Drinkn Water Supplies
15.          There are four municipal water supply plants in Zhengiang and five in
Changzhou. Both cities draw water supplies from the Yangtze River and the quality of the river
watr is generally acceptable (except in the near shore areas at Zhenjiang). There are five
municipal waterworks in the city of Wuxi that draw water from Taihu. The water supplies are
drawn from a small bay of Taihu called Wuli Lake, which is subject to eutrophication problems.
The city of Suzhou has three municipal water supply works, which draw water supplies from the
small rivers flowing from Taihu. Water quality from these small rivers generally meets Class
I standards for drinking water supplies.
Munidpal Wastewater Trtment
16.          The city of Zhenjiang has no municipal wastwater treatment plants. The
Cbangzhou treats about one quarter of the municipal wastewater, Wuxi treats about three
quarters of the municipal wastewaters, and Suzhou treats about half the municipal wastewater.
About half of the wastewater that is treated meets municipal wastewater discharge standards.
Surface Water Qualty
17.          The water quality in the rivers and lakes of southern Jiangsu is some of the worst
in the provice. The main pollutants are organic in nature, that is, biochemical oxygen demand
and excess mntrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorous.



57-                              ANNE573
18.          Grand Canal. The gradient of the Grand Canal in Southern Jiangsu is small
and therefore the flow velocity and volume is low. The flow in the Grand Canal is also affected
by the chaDges in water levels in the Yangtze River and Taihu. Often the flow in the Grand
Canal stops entirely or reverses in direction, especially in the dry season. Because of the high
loadings of organic and industrial pollutants, dissolved oxygen In the Grand Canal is below the
level that will support aquatic life, except for the anaerobic microbes that characteristically give
rise to a sulfurous stink. The sections of the Grand Canal in the cities are continuously black
and malodorous. The pollution in the main section of the Grand Canal is the most serious,
especially in the city sections of Suzhou, Wuxi and Changzhou. The water quality in these
sections does not meet the lowest standard for water quality in China. Dredging of the new
Grand Canal in city sections has reduced the flow in the older sections, firther exacerbating the
pollution problems of odor and dissolved oxygen.
19.          Urban Rivers. Water pollution in the urban rivers of the four clties is very
serious with the water quality below the lowest standard in China (Class V). The pollutants are
organic in nature including high concentations of ammonia, as well as industrial pollution,
including toxic substances and petroleum.
20.          Taihu. The water quality of the Taihu region can meet Chinese standards for
Class II or m, suitable for public water supply. The water quality along the lake nearshore
areas is relatively poor. Every inlet of the rivers into the lake and the nearshore area near Wuxi
City as well as Hangzhou City in Zhejiang Province has been polluted.
21.          Rivers and Lakes In the Countryside. The water quality in most of the rivers
and lakes in the countryside remains relatively good. Rapid development of town and village
industral enterprises (IVIEs) and rapid urban development has led to pollution problems near
the townships and villages where industry is developing.
Water Quality Objectives
22.          Water discharge goals have been based on the necessary pollutant reductions to
achieve surface water quality objectives. The surface water quality objectives are based on the
national sandards for intended use of the water resource. The standards are an aggreate of 30
parameters of water quality criteria, including physical characteristics and defined levels of
chemical contaminas fne (A).
23.          Industrial Wastewater Discharges. Ihe overall objtctive in south Jiangsu for
industrial wastewater is to reduce the total poUlution loading by 14 percent in 1995 and
72 percent by the year 2000. These objectives can be reached by increasing the total industial
wastewater meeting standard effluent guidelines. In 1990, 58 percent of the industrial
wastewater met standards. By 1995, this rate will be increased to 67.5 percent meeting
wastewater discharge stndards, and 71.9 percent by the year 2000.
24.          Munidipal Wastewater Discharges. For sanitary (domestic) wastewaters, the
goal is to increase treatment capacity from the rate of 35 percent in 19X0 to 74 percent of all
wastewater discharge in 1995, with the ultimate goal of treating 77.7 percent of wastewater
generated by the year 2000.



-58-                             ANNEX3
25.          Water Qualty In Grand Cal. Short-team goals for water quality in the
Grad Canal call for allion of the public health threat and odor nuisance by raising the
dissolved oxyge,. !evels and the overall water quality to Cam IV or V in the inne city sections,
and am Is in other sections of the Grand Canal. Mid-tm goals for the years 2000 to 2010
cal for raisng the wate quality in the inner city sections to Class m to TV and for other
sections of the Grand Canal, Class U to m. TMis class of water will support fish life and
industrialuse, even in the inner city sections.
26.          Talhu. Water quality goals for Talhu include meeting Class m standards for
the near shore areas and Class II standards suitable for public supplies in the lake body. Mid-
team goals for the years 2000 to 2010 call for Talhu to reach Clas I or II standards for public
supplies.
Strate  for Water Polution Control
27.          The strategy for water pollution control has been to idenify the main pollution
sources, including industrial and municipal, and to develop a program for control of these
pollution sources. Secondly, the pwvince proposes to change the hydrology of the Grand Canal
to improve flow. A new agency to regulate the exploitation of the groundwater resources will
be established. The master plan for water quaity management is attached.
28.          Identification of the Main Indusial Polluters. There are several enterprises
In Southern Jiangsu whose total discharge of pollutant loading accounts for more than 50 percent
of the entire city in which they are located. These industrial enterprises include pulp and paper,
petrochemical, pharmaceutical, metallurgy, foodstuff, and textile industries. Table 1 shows the
fifteen main poluting industries identfied in the region ranks them according to the pollution
loading that they contribute to the surface water resources. These industrial facilities include:
pulp and paper, foodstuff, pharmaceutical, chemical, metalurgy, and textiles. These 15 facilities
contribued one half of the chemical oxygen demand (COD) discharge in the Southern Jiangsu
region.
29.          Industrial Pollutant Reduction Strategy. The fifteen major industrial polluters
noted above are targeted as the first priorities for pollutant reduction in the short term plan. The
pollution abatement measures at six of these enterprises are proposed to be supported under this
project ( x  S). The strategies to be used are as follows:
*     Change in the production processes to less poluting technologies;
*     Relocation of the industr  facility itself to a less sensitive area;
*     End of pipe treatment;
*     Establishment of urban wastewater treatment facilities and pretreatment of
problem wastestreams;
*     Relocation of wastwater outlet points with an overall emphasis to discharge to
the Yangtze River rather than the Grand Canal;
*     StrthenIng legislaton and insdtitions for environmenta management



-59-                                 AMNC3
Tade L2 FRI    MAIN PNCIPAL POLLa S IN SnurM  JIAUNGU
Contribution to total Rank of pollutant
Baterprisea              COD Discharge (tlyr)  discharge of each city        load
zheatJio
pulp mill la                    27,117                                         1
Dadoeg Paper mill               12,789                                         3
Subtotal                   39.906                  79.6%
Chasughou
General                          8,381                                         4
Brewery Factory /a
MSe Factory                    3,048                                         9
Powder Factory
Dmgfen8 Printis
and Dyolag Factory           1,511                                        1S
Subtotal                    12.940                 56.32
Solvent Factory                  4,523                                         5
No. 3 Pharmaceutical             3,132                                         8
1o. 2 Pharmaceutical 4A          2,861                                        10
Llyong Paper Factory Li          2,400                                        11
Dy eIg Factory                   1,627                                        13
Petrochemical
etneral Factory                1,601                                        14
Subtotal                   16.144
Suagou
Hongy  Paper MUil  lA           23,040                                         2
Chemical Plant                   4,249                                         6
Hushabg Paper Mull la            3,563                                         7
Steel Plant                      1,914                                        12
Subtotal                   32.766                  71.42
La Poposd to be finaned under the hustri poution contol oomponens of this projet
30X            The Stratey  for Wastewater Control in Medium  and  Small Scal
Entpiss. The strategy to be used for medium and smail scale enterprises includes measures
for closing or changing production lines to less polluting products, and using less problematic
raw mateials. Some industri  facilities will be relocated to less sensitive areas. Facilities
which discarge heavy metaLs or toxic pollutants that are refratory to biological treant will
be ientfied and prereatment of these effluents wil be insttted within the industri  fciliies
themselves. Ihen, for economy of scale, the industri  effluents, pretrated if requird, wfll
be dihged to the municW wastewat tratment sytem. The treated wastestreams wi then
be routed to the YaDgtze River. In Zhenjiang, shorttem plans are for primary treatm    with
secondary treatment in the mid- and long-term plans br the fiture. In Changzhou, secondary
treatme  wil be institued in the shortterm. In Wuxi,  ot-term plans are for priary
treatment, with secondary treatn in the mid- and long-em. In Suzhou, mid- and long-term
plans call for secondary treatment facilities. A combination of stategies and discarge will be



-60 -                            ANNE  3
used in Suzhou, since It is not economically feasible to pump all wastewaters directly to the
Yangtze.
31.          Mwuldpal Santary Wasteters. Improved standards of living has led io
increased water consumption In all of the four ciOles. Years 1989 to 1990 showed an increase
of water for domestic use of 21.5 percent. Domestic sanitary wastewater is the single largest
contributor to water pollution in the region. The combined urban industrial and dom.estic
wastewaters will be treated in wastewater treatment facilities including an experimental waste
stabilizationlagoon in Zhenjiang. The cities of Zhenjiang, Wuxi, and Changzhou will ultimately
discharge treated effluent to the Yangtze River.
32.          Increasing Flow In the Gr4.id Canal. The Grand Canal was constructed 2500
years ago and has served well as a transportation and man-made irrigation channel in southern
Jiangsu in the past. The size cf the canal does not currendy suit the current level of economic
development. The navigation channel is too narrow and the volume of water flow is small. In
order to address these problems, the government has planned to widen the channel of the Grand
Canal and to increase the water flow. Te increase in flow in the canal is hoped to augment the
self-puification capacity. According to national and local short- and mid-term plans for flood
and drainage control, irrigation and navigation, some engineering works for improvement of the
Grand Canal have already started.
33.          Water will be pumped into the Grand Canal system at the northern end, the
storage capacity of Taihu will be increased and water will be pumped out of the system at the
southern end into the Yangtze River by way of the local river system. The main features are:
3     raise the level of the banks of Taihu in the southeast in order to increase storage
capacity;
e     increase the drainage capacity of the Tai Pu River (by way of Shanghai),
Wangni and Liu River;
*     widen the channel of the Grand Canal in order to increase the flow capacity;
*     transfer water from the Deshenghe River from Taihu and from the Yangcheng
Lake/Talhu area.
34.          RegulIon and Control Program. A centralized regulating authority will be
insttuted to oversee the Grand Canal improvement ani water pollution efforts. Ihe regulatory
body will oversee the construction of the improvement works.
Groumdwater Resources
35.          Overexploitation of groundwater resources has taken on alarming proportions.
The shallow surface water aquifer is exploited by city residents and there are ov.3r 100,000
domestic wels in the city of Suzhou, Wuxi, and Changzhou. The lower confined groundwater
aquifer is maiy exploited by industrW and municipal waterworks. It is estimated that there
1300 deep wells in the provincial cities at present.



-61-                             AN=  3
36.          Gromdater Pollution and Exploitation. The shallow aquifer has been
polluted to some degree. The main pollutants are itrates and ammonia, as well as phenol. In
some areas, arsenic is found in the groundwater. In general, the quality of the (lower) confined
groundwater aquifer is relatively good. However, there are pockets of pollution in the confined
aquifer in the industri areas. The problem of overexploitation of groundwater is worse in
Changzhiou City, where there are an average of 3.7 deep wells per square kilometer. In the most
densely exploited area, there are 22 wells per square klometer. Under the influence of
pumping, the surface of an aquifer will fall, forming a cone of depression around the area of
exploitation. Large cones of depression have formed around Changzhou, Wuxi and Suzhou.
In Suzhou, the cone of depression has caused a fall of over 58 meters in the groundwater level.
A serious drop in the groundwater table has occurred in Wuxi and Changzhou as well, with
levels falling as much as 1-2 meters per year. The drop in groundwater elevation has caused
soil subsidence. In Suzhnu, soil subsidence has been measured up to one meter in depth.
Buildings in the city have caved in and collapsed due to soil subsidence.
37.          Control Measures. Beginning in the 1980s, each city embarked on a program
of protection of groundwater resources. These measures included:
*     the establishment of institutions for the protection of groundwater resources
under government authorities;
*     strict evaluation of new well applications;
-     levies on enterprises which exploit groundwater resources;
--    limitations on waer usage and encoJragement of conservation measures; water
usage is planned and fines are imposed for overexploitation;
*     aquifer recharge with nonpolluted surface water.
The effects of this program have been positive and the sharp drop of groundwater levels and soil
subsidence has been brought under control. Awareness of the need to protect groundwater
resources has increased.
38.          Future Plans for Protection of Groundwater Resources. Future plans involve
the improvement of the institutions to protect groundwater as well as regulations and the use of
a levy system. Future groundwater management plans also call for planning the use and capacity
of the resource, as well as aquifer recharge programs. Regional planning for the resource will
be insftiuted as a conutrol measure, ratiher than the single well permit measures taken so far.
Measures will be taken to control contamination of the aquifer resources from groundlevel
contamination sources. Groundwater protection zones will be instituted and a specific authority
established for the regulation and implementation of the groundwater resource protection planL
C. OVERL STRGY FOR AIR PoLuAmoN CoNTRoL
39.          Air pollution in south Jiangsu is caused chiefly by the use of coal as the main
domestic and industrial energy source. Smoke and dust from coal burning results in suspended
particulate matter as well as acid gases that cause acid rain. There are also localized problems
with hydrogen fluoride emissions from brick kilas. The chief polluters are power plants,



-62-                             ANN I
building material Industries, industrial boilers and kilns, and domestic use. Most chimneys of
coal-burning facilities are low and therefore dispersion of air pollutants is limited. Air pollution
in industrial areas is prominent. The SO2 content of the air was generally 13 times as high as
the national averaff, where the suspended particulate matter was 11 times as high as the national
average. The air emission pollution load in order of total volume was: 1) power plants; 2)
building materials industries; 3) breweries; 4) printing and dying; and 5) leather tanning.
Estimates for the Future
40.          Air pollution problems are forecast to become more serious in Southern Jiangsu.
Coal consumption will increase chiefly in power plants, which have no acid gas control
measures. Therefore, it is predicted that acid rain pollution will increase. With the rapid
increase in housing development, the building material industries, including brick and tile
production, will have a rapid development, which will lead to an increase of hydrogen fluoride
emissions.
Air Pollution Control Strategles
41.          The renovation of existing boilers for improved efficiency has been an ongoing
process. By 1995, the objective is to renovate 95 percent of the existfng boilers, with 85 percent
of those renovated meeting steam production efficiency standards. By the year 2000, the
objective is to renovate all of the existing boilers with 95 percent reaching efficiency standards.
42.          The Switch From Coal to Other Enera Sources. One key pollution control
strategy is to shift the current domestic fuel usage from coal to cleaner burning fuels such as
town gas and liquefied petroleum gas. In the last 40 years in the entire province, gas utilities
have been extended in the urban areas to 36 percent of the populadon. All of the four cities in
Southern Jiangsu have a program to extend the town gas utilities. The goal for the year 2010
is to reach 60 percent of the urban populaton with gas fuel utilites.
43.          Noise Control and No Smoke Districts. Urban areas have been delineated for
noise control and air emissions control districts. Polluting facilities are being moved from these
areas in the larger cities. Development in these areas is limited and the pollution control
regulations strictly enforced.
44.          Cement Dust. Small scale cement production around the cities is a source of
suspended particulate matters. Dust recovery from small kilns has just recently been initiated.
Renovation of small kilns wfll just keep pace with the increase in new facilities, in terms of total
pollution loading. The plan is to construct large-scale cement factories and shut down small kiln-
type cement factories.
45.          Hydrogen Fluoride Control. Control of hydrogen fluoride emissions in the
province will include a new levy on fluoride discharge and a program to control emissions. Ihe
control strategy includes the utilization of solid waste produced in power plants, namely fly-ash,
replacing clay to make bricks. The substitution of clay for fly-ash will decrease the emissions
of hydrogen fluoride released from the mud. Large scale automated brick-making facilities are
planned which will udlize fly-ash as a replacement for a quantity of clays as raw material for
brick making.



-63-                             ANNEX3
46.          AddItiol Measrm. Pilot project are beiag constructed for smoke and
desulphurzaon facilities in themal power plants. A gradual increase In the requements for
atomotive emissios conls is also planned. Program target have been set to increase green
areas within the urban zones.
D. STIATEGY FOR SOWD AND HAZARIDOUS WASI= MANAGEMI
47.          Solid waste management must encompass three basic differt types of
, including municipal solid waste and night soils, industri hadous solid waste,
and Industria waste that is nonhazardous.
IndusrialHazardous Wsste
48.          In 1989, abou 1.2 million tons of industia hazardous waste was generated in
the province of Jiangsu, out of which about I milion tons were generated in the four cities
(Suzhou, Wwd, Changzhou, and Zhenjlano. In terms of tonnage, the greatest acmaon of
solid waste from industrial facilities is flue dust. While there is a large recycling rate for flue
dust, the increases in quantity generated is outstripping the increase in recycling usage.
MlunIIpal Sold Waste
49.         lTere are currently no sanitry landfills in China. Solid waste management is
a problem for every city. The problems inlude collection, transfer stations, and disposd.
Currently, iduial sludge is not collected either. Every city operates poorly managed dump
sites that are often next t waterys and a cause of growing environmental concern.
Short-Term Strategies
50.          It is anicipated that national regulations wil be promulgated for the control of
hazardous materials and waste. Following this, JEPB as well as the municipal EPBs will
mulgate provicial and municipal reutions based on the national system. A hazardous
ma         waste permit system will be established and anmual progress reports wil be submitted
by each city. The strategy for the permit system will be revised and expande to other cities
within the povhice in the 1995/96 tlmefame.
Model Engneing
51.          A model eineering design for hazardous waste landfills wil be devdoped, as
wel as model engiering designs for hrdos waste treatment systems.
52.          Imple       o. TWo impletion agencies will be formed, each with a
solid waste and haus       te secton. This wil be the Jansu Provinci  Solid and
Haadou Waste Management and Registration Center and the Wuxi Municipal Solid and
Hazardous Waste Management and Reitraton Center.
Medum- to IAng-Term Man_geeI Plans
53.          The strgy and ation plans for hardous materials and waste control for the
pwvice as wel as the cities will be revised in the medium term. The new regulations wil be



-64-                            ANNE3
Implemented at the provincial and city level. Projects developed at Wuxi as demonstration
engineering projects wil be implemented in selected cities. The hazardous waste management
systems wil be expanded to Suzhou, Zhenjiang, and Changzhou, as well as Nanjing and other
provincial cities. A monitoring program for specific hazdous materials will be developed in
the medium-term and enforcement systems for hazardous materials will be revised. Expansion
of hazardous waste management effectiveness will include the implementation of hazardous waste
management programs for TVIEs, trdning programs for new initiatives and updates of strategy
and action plans for the province as well as the cities. Further discussions of hazardous waste
and material management are in Annex 9.
54.          Township and Village Industrial Enterprises (rVIEs). The TVIEs are small
and dispersed through the countryside where they cause localized pollution damages. In terms
of wastewater pollution loadings, the TVIEs which generate the majority of the waste, are
generally the same as those in the cities, with textiles, paper, chemical and building materials
heading the list, followed by metal products and foodstuffs.
55.          Town and Village Industrial Enterprise Pollution Control Strategy. TVIEs
are a major source of employment, generate substantial revenue and export earnings and have
experienced rapid growth over the past decade. Increasing pollution within the TVIE sector is
broadly recognized as a serious problem. The strategy for bringing this problem under control
Includes:
(a)    Policy Action on limiting future growth in use of hazardous materias waste.
(b)   Promotion of industrial parks and common treatment facilities.
(c)    Promotion of waste management and clean technology.
Several studies have already been initiated to develop the strategy in detail and to rropose and
implement an efective action plan. The major work to achieve this result is the JGF finmced
TVIE Environmental Management Study and the JGF financial waste management study .br
TVEs.
56.          Pilot Engineing Projects. The pilot projects for pollution control strategy of
TVIEs within Wuxi and Suzhou will be provide the basis for further development in the rest of
the Province. The Strategy/Action plan for TVIE Environmental Management will be expanded
and updated once the results from Wuxi and Suzhou are available.
II. INDIVIDUAL PROJECT CITIES
Environmental ObJectves
57.          Ihe environmental improvement objectives developed by the Environmental
Protection Bureaus of the four cities in Southern Jiangsu are shown in
Annz 2.



-65 -                            ANNEX3
A. SUZHOU MUMcIPALrY
58.          Suzhou is located downstream of Wuxi on the Grand Canal in the southeast
corna of Jiangsu Province. Suzhou is criss-crossed by a network of rivers and canals. Suzhou
is one of the most economically developed areas in the country and is fourth in industrial output
value among all the cities in China. Suzhou City proper lies by Taihu at the convergence of the
Grand Canal and Sukun River. The Yangtze River and Taihu are the main water supplies and
drainage outlets. Because of the smooth terrain, the gradient in the rivers is small and the water
flow is slow. Rivers around and within the city are frequently stagnant.
Water Pollution
59.          Ihe inne city rivers are highly polluted, often not meeting standards for Class
V. Because of problems in funds and management, current water pollution control measures
have not yet been implemented. A large portion of industrial wastewater and sanitary sewage
is directly drained to the river courses without any treatment. Ihere is no complete sewage
system established in the city proper, so the river courses are used as sewers. In other parts of
the city, there are no sewer connectors, so wastewater usually enters the nearest river. Water
quality degraation has restricted economic development. Drinking water quality has degraded
and there has been a decrease in fish production. In addition, toudsm attractants have been
seriously damaged. Factories have been forced to adopt wastewater preteatment, which
increases production costs. Exploitation of groundwater resources has increased considerably.
Soil subsidence has become a serious threat to structures within the city. Township and vilage
enterprises are scattered throughout the suburbs in Wuxian County. Because of the weakness
and insufficiency of pollution control programs, management, technology, and availale capital,
a considerable portion of the township enterprises operate with obsolete equipment, backward
technology, and under weak management. The enviromnental pollution problems caused by
TVIEs become increasingly serious.
60.          The main polluting industries are light industry, chemicals, pharmaceuticals,
metallurgy and silk. The largest polluting enterprises are Hongye Paper MU, Huasheng Paper
WMl, and Suzhou Chemical Plant. These three industrial facilities account for 60 percent of the
total pollution load. An additional five industrial enterprises including Suzhou Steel Plant,
account for over 80 percent of the total pollution load.
61.          Nonpoint source pollution caused by application of pesticides and chemicals has
been noted. Organochlorine pesticide residues were presenting an increasing health hazard.
Application of organochlorine pesticides has been stopped. Because of poor fertlizer application
techniqe, nutrient conamination of runoff to surface water is resulting in eutrophication of
surfce water resources.
Wastwatw IPollution Control, Achlevements to Date
62.          Achievements in industrial waswer control to date include 241 projects for
recycling and pollution control. The designed daily processing capacity for industial wastewaer
is 39 percent of the total industrial wastewater flow.
63.          The city is undng a realignment of river courses in the Ancient City district
and hb acquired dredging capacity. To date, 49 kilometers of riverbed have been dredged.



-66 -                            ANN
Tnis program is designed to impve water flow through the Ancient city district  Eleven
exchage pumnp station have been constructed, with the capacity to pump 100 million cubic
meters. Thirty kilmeters of watercourse can now be exchanged each day. Wihi this help in
flushig of the city w urses, the occumrce of black and malodorous water has been
somewhat reduced. Water recycling at ind    facilites has reached a rate of 56 percent.
Eighty-one polludon causing enterprises have been relocated to less sensitve areas. A system
of waste disposal licensing has been insttuted, and waste diposal licenses have been isued to
110 enterprises.
64.          Suzhou has instituted a system of waste disposal charges. Wastewater disposal
charges were collected for the first time In 1986. Wastewawe diosal charges have become the
main channel to coUect enviro      protection funds for the city. Most disposal fees for solid
waste are on the low side and fees coUected barely pay for the expenses of solid waste disposal.
However, since July 1991, the waste disposal fee has undergone comprehensive modification,
with new regulations promulgated by the state.
65.          The city has  ited the policy of designing pollution controls along with the
basic desig of new facilities. Enforcemen of this policy is not 100 percent In the tedcnical
invation projects and TVIEs.
Straes for Water Pouion Control
66.          In the past, control of industrial pollution has been achieved by a serious of
measures including the restrucuring of industrial products mix, relocation of highly polluting
industrial faciities, technological upgrades of industral processes, and recycling. Cenualized
wastewae treatment fciities have been used for the treauent of domestic sanitary sewage,
with little contibton from industri wastewaters. Ihe use of municipal wastewater trem
facilities for industri wastewater treatment is only now under discussion.
esu      n  of Product MiX
67.          Since the 1980s, light idustries have come into prominence, reating stuch
consumer goods as refigerators, TVs, electric fans and vaccuum cleaners. In addition, the
residence of Suzhou have taken great efforts in developing the tourist trade, and in production
of traditional arts and crft, such as silk and embroidery.
Relction of Polluting Jndustes
68.          In order to proect the old urban district against polludon, the relocation of
industries in Suzhou city has been undertaken on a reatively large scale. In the last 10 years,
a total of 81 enterprises or workhops have been relocated out of the urb district. Fure plans
are to move additional Industria facilities including the 15 ph ccal fcory, the rubber
factory, the leather tanming mil, a foodstuff factory, and others.
RWeycing and Waste Minimization
69.          Cerai accomplish       have been achieved In water recycling and waste
minimzabon. For instance, coolhng water recycling in the steel rolling workshop of the Suzhou
Steelworbs has reached a volume of 17,000 tons per day. Collection and recovery of waste oil



-67-                            Ab=S3
in wastewater streams and used cacase oil has reduced the amount of petroleum products
dischaged as pollutants.
Tcaoogical keforms
70.          Certain technological changes have been made in the industrial facilities in order
to affect more evironmentally benign processes. For instance, the pulp making process in the
paper mill has been stopped. The old paper making machines have been refurbished or new
machines have been bought which produce a lower pollutant loading. The electroplating plant
has introduced advanced electroplating production lines. The instument meter elements plant
has renovated its wastewatr treatment facilty so that discharged waewatr can now meet
envrnme tal standards. The sulfuric acid work has adopted an intermie  cooling method to
produce sulfuric. This method has reduced the discharge of arsenic-contmiated wastewater.
In addition to fostering these types of measures, the city plans to develop centralized treament
facilities for industral wastewaters. At the Hongye Paper MilI, a new paper machine has been
imported and the paper pulp source has been changed from rice straw to waste paper pulp. The
wastewater COD content has been reduced by 95 percent in this mamner. The discharge from
ths one facility constituted 40 percent of the total COD discharged to the Grand Canal in the
city. The various proposed subprojects, including the Hongye and Huasheng Paper Mills, and
Suzhou #5 pharmaceuical factory wil reduce COD discharge volume by 80 percent (Annex ).
Mnicipal Developmet Plan
71.          In 1986, an overall municipal development program for Suzhou was approved
by the state council. The development plans called for preservation of the 2500 year old ancient
district, strengthening of the basic infrastructure of facilities in the old city, and building new
districts. The new districts will primarily be located to the west of the current city. Potecion
of the ancient district includes a prohibition of the construction or enlargement of factories or
public buildings. The new district to be developed by Suzhou is envisioned to include science
and education centers, information excbange, finance and commerce, commercia services and
residentia areas. Suitable development of nonpolluting high-tech industries will also be
undetaken. There are curenty five established industrial districts in Suzhou and a new
industrial district is plann  to the northwest of the city. A central w wat treament facility
is planned for this area to hadlle both municipal and industrW wastewaters.
Water Poilutlon Control Objectives
72.          The emphasis of Suzhou's water pollution control program is to protect the water
quality of Talhu so that it can reach the water quality Class II by the year 2000. The
deterration of water quality in other local laces will be brought under control to maintain
Category IV. New pollution sources are to be strictly controlled and the reduction rate of key
eistng pollution sources is targeted at 80 percent.
ESt Taihu Ecological Area
73.          An egineeing model area wil be set up to exploit and utilize the environmental
resources alog the shore of East Taihu. Industries such as forestry, orchards and fisheries will
b encouroaged, as well as agriculture, animal husbandry and associaed industries.



-68 -                            AXa
Town Plaing
74.          Pilot projects will be launched In order to develop strategies for the
environmenta management of town and township enterprises. Lake Luzhi Town, for example,
will be used as a model city with centralized heat and power supply as well as centralized
wastewater treatment. Additional model ecology projects on the countryside will be undertaken
at Chenhua Village of Guangfu Town, Putian Village of Weiting Town and Zhenshang Village
of Huangqiao country. These villages will provide a research model for economic developments
in concert with environmental and social benefits. It is envisioned that these pilot projects will
provide models for future development throughout the countryside.
Pollution Control of TVIFs
75.          Future plans are to bring TVIE pollution under control and to require that every
town or township complete pollution control measures on one to two existing sources every year.
Pollution control projects will be begrm in the Yinshan small chemical district, with the goal of
reducing wastewater discharges by over 80 percent and to bring the remaining wastewater up
to discharge standads. In addition, the circuit board manufacturers in Huangquao Country who
are the source of copper pollutions which led to many fishkills, will be required to effect copper
recovery measures in the wastewater streams of up to 98 percent.
Pio Projects In Recyclng
76.          Pilot projects in recycling of 'countryside waste" on the shores of East Taihu
and Putai Village by Lake Yangcheng will be undertaken. The projects will use animal manures
to produce metne. Solid and liquid waste will also be recycled as agricultural feratizers.
Water Qualty ObJectives for Suzhou City Proper
77.          Water pollution control will be given top priority. Emphasis will be given to
the reduction of total pollutant quantities rather than attainment of pollutant concentrations in
wastewater discharges. The target for water quality in drinking water sources is Category I.
The target for water quality in the Grand Canal and In the inner city rivers, as well as the rivers
smrrounding the city will be Category IV in the short term and Category H in the medium term.
The target for scenic spot water quality is Category IU.
Measures for Control of Industrial Wastewater Pollution
78.          The following measures will be undertaken in order to control industrial
wastwater pollution sources:
(a)    Polluting factories will continue to be relocated to less sensitive areas;
(b)   Industral processes wiul continue to be modernized and emphasis will be given
to centralized processing;
(c)    Pollution control equipment will be renovated;



- 69 -                           ANNEX
(d)    A water conservation program will target industrial water recycling for 65
percent in the short term and 70 percent in the midium term;
(e)    The target for industrial wastewater processing in the main trades is 80 percent
in the short term and 85 percent in the midium term;
(f)    A reduction of COD emission loads in industrial wastewater is targeted for 40
percent in the short term and 50 percent in the midium term;
(g)    The target for achieving wastewater treatment standards is 65 percent in the
short term and 75 percent in the midium term;
Measures for Control of Municdpal Wastewater Pollution
79.          The following measures wfll be undertaken to mitigate the effects of municipal
wastewater pollution in the past and control municipal wastewater pollution on an ongong basis:
(a)    The rivers wiUl be dredged in order to widen the river courses and improve flow
conditions;
(b)    Connections with the central wastewater treatment systems will be increased.
The target for municipal wastewater treatment is 60 percent of the wastewater
flows in the short term and 80 percent in the midium term;
(c)    Water diversion mechanisms will be used to increase the dilution of city rivers
and enhance their assimilative capacity for pollution loads;
(d)    The aministion of river course management will be strengthened to control
the dumping of waste from factories and residential areas along the river course;
(e)   It is thought that utilization of the waterways will promote management;
therefore, the water travel lanes will be opened up to promote usage;
Measures to Effect Water Pollution Control In the City Districts
80.          Short-term plans are to augment the inner city rivers with freshwater from Taihu
and Shizlilyang River. Mid-term plans are to enlarge the flushing program by drawing water
from Taihu to the city.
Water Pollution Control In the Old City
81.          Short-term plans for controlling water pollution in the Old City is to complete
the sewer system and pretreat industrial effluent so that it can be discharged into the central
wastewater treatment plant.
Water Pollution Control In the New District
82.          A wastewater treatment plant of 20,000 ton per day capacity is planned for the
New District. The Hexi water treatment plat will be expanded to 80,000 tons per day in the



- 70-                           ANEX
midhlm and long term. The facility will be used to process both municipal wastewaters and
industial wastestream. he Hedong wastewater treatment facility will be enlarged from 5,000
tons per day to 20,000 ton per day capacity.
Air Polution
83.          Energy sources used in the city proper are mainy coal, oil, coke, electricity, and
liquefied gas. The principal energy consumers are Suzhou Steelworks, Suzhou Carbon Black
Factory, Suzhou Chemical Plant, Suzhou Heat and Power Plant, Hongye Pener Mill, Huasheng
Paper Mill, Suzhou Solvents Plant, and Suzhou Cement Factory. The energy consumed by these
nine industrial facilities accounts for more than half of the total energy consumption of all
industria enterprises in the city.
84.          The main air conaminants emitted from the industrial facilities and civil use of
coal include sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, smoke particulates, suspended
particulate matter, hydrogen fluoride, chlorine, hydrogen sulfide, sulfuric acid fog, lead,
bee. toluene, dimedhylbenzeine, methanol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, cyanide,
ammonia, chromium, benzanhydride, naphthalene, zinc, nickel, and lacquer fog. Several of
these are toxic emissions and are known carcinogens. The main source of atmospheric pollution
i the use of coal as a fuel. Coal consumption accounts for over 90 percent of the tot fuel
consumption. The smoke pollution from coal combustion includes principal pollutats of So.,
NQ,, TSP, and falling dust. Projections for the next five years indicate that air pollution in the
city proper wil decline. Air pollution quality will reach Grade U standards with suspended
particulates and falling dust exceeding these standards. The objective is for enmironmental air
quality lower than Grade U standards in the midium term.
Air Pollution Control StrategIes
85.          Polludon reduction zones for key tourist and scenic areas will be delineated and
the objective is to reach Grade I air quality standards in these areas. For the remainder of the
city, Grade U standard are the target.
Measures for Controlling Industrial Air Pollution
86.          The following measures will be undertaken in order to control industia air
polution sources:
(a)    The location of industrial facilities will be regulated and enlargement or
development of factories will be prohibited in the Ancient City district. Ten of
the chief air polluters will be relocated, including the battry factory, the steel
roiling miU, Sifang Chemical Machinery Factory, and others.
(b)   Energy consevation will be encouraged with 17 projects in technical
Improvements to industral facilities.
(c)    The power and heat supply wil be centralized. The Suzhou Heat and Power
Plant and the heat and power plant of the Suzhou Steelworks, as wel as the
Suzhou Chemical Plant heat and power facility, wil be enlarged. Small heat



-71-                             ANNiX3
and power project will be built in Chenl, Hongye Paper Mill, L3hua Silk
Prntg Factory, and others.
(d)   Iho targes fr control of air oMIOns  o to cntol 65 percet of the
emissions In the near fuure, and 85 percent nl e midium term. Recovery of
suspended paculate mater from industrial cilities is targeted for 7S percen
in the near term and 8S percen in the midium term.
(e)    Conol of total suspended partiulate pollution will be improved with the
installation of TSP control equipment on the pollution sources. The goal Is to
control TSP to levels surpassing the emissios stndards. The heights of
chimey wil be raised in order to effact better dispersion of air coammian
releases.
(t)    An air containlent emission license system will be instituted.
(g)    Development of municipal gas utilities will reduce the asmption of coal. in
addition, te use of coal briquettes will b encouraged, with a target of 80
percent usage in the near future and 95 percent usage of the cleaner briquetes
in the midum term
(h)   The green areas of the city wil be expanded.
O)    CODno of automotive engine emissions wil be ined with yearly checlk on
emisons from the individual vehicles.
Nois Control
87.          The deveopment of new districts of towns is thouight to be a fdamenal way
to alleviate noise polluto, especially traffic noise in the city proper. Improvement of the traffic
siation is a goal for reducing traffic noise. Bottleneck sections of roads will be widened, and
bridge crossings wil be imprved. A one-way road system vil be developed in the city poper.
Special lanes will be developed for bicycle traffic so that automotive traffic can flow uninhibited.
Solid Waste Manmt
88.          Ihere are 11 main geating sources for industri solid waste in the city. The
waste generated by these sources compries 88 percent of the tota indus    waste generated in
the city proper. The city is undea   four principal ways for recycling induti wate solids:
(a)    Trolite mine slag and blast furnace dags are used as nmtias to produce
cenmean
(b)    Coal cinder from boilers is used to produce coal cinderblocks;
(c)    Waste solids are used to improve the eart and farmld or to mix with fodder,
(d)   Indus1ial wastes are used as fil for building constructo.



- 72n                             ANNEX3
Most of the ordinary industrial waste is transported into the countryside for uncontrolled
disposal. Hazardous waste from the city proper basically falls into two categories: waste slag
from the nonferrous metal Industry and sludge from electroplating. Slag from copper smelting
is used to pave roads. Slap from zinc smelting Is sold to town and township enterprises to
recover zinc or zinc dioxide. The sludge generated from electroplating (over 600 tons per year)
is transpoted into the countryside for uncontrolled disposal.
Municipal Solid Waste
89.          In the last five years, the Yanging Garbage Dump of the city proper has been
filled up and the Sengxing Garbage Dump was scrapped becuase of Improper site selection. Two
new garbage "stackfields" have been newly built for the city proper. In order to mitigate
pollution accidents, leachate collection canals have been built under the garbage stack and
chemical sprays are used to sterilize. Because of increasing fertiizer use in the countryside the
disposal of night soils have become a severe problem. In order to solve this problem, the city
has rented faanland to build septic tanls. The septic tanks are periodically cleaned on order of
the Hygiene Section administration.
Hazardous waste management
90.          It is envisaged that over the medium term, a hazardous waste management and
registration center would be established at Zhenjiang, taking into account the experience of the
proposed Hazardous waste management and registration centers at the provinci and municipat
levels (in Wuxi) under this project (Annex 9!-
Pollution from TVIEs
91.          Five hundred eleven pollution control facilities have been assembled in the six
ndustrial classes causing the most severe pollution. The daily treatment capacity of these
facilities is 90,000 or 86 percent of the total wastewater treatment capacity of the town and
township enterprises. The TVIEs have been responsible for a decline in water quality and
drinking water resources. TVIE wastewater discharges have also been responsible in water
quality of mainy of the river courses. TVIE pollution has caused damage to agricultural lands,
agricultul crops, fisheries production. There have been frequent pollution accidents with
liability disputes caused by TVIEs.
Measures to Control Polludon from TVIEs
92.          Ihe following measures will be undertaken in order to bring pollution from
TVIEs under control:
(a)    Wastestreams that are easily handled will be given top priority for control
technologies; for example, chromium containing cyanogen waste from 152
electroplating factories has already been controlled with new equipment. The
treatmnst rate is about half of the total wastestream. T'wo thirds of the prting
and dyeing and circuitboard industry have control facilities and the treatment
rate reaches about 60 percent.



-73-                             ANNE
(b)    Efforts will be made to transfer practical pollution control technologies in light
of local conditions. Small-scale enterprises will be limited to primary treatment,
where larger-scale enterprises should be able to achieve secondary treatment.
(c)    Comprehensive recycling programs will be encouraged. For example, recovery
of copper of copter-containing wastestreams from the circuitboard Industry
amounts to a recycling rate of over 95 percent.
(d)    Pilot programs and centralized waste treatment will be instituted. Such a pilot
project has been launched in Luzhi Town in Wuxian County.
(e)   Industrial boilers and kilns will be upgraded for smoke and dust control of air
emissions. An upgrading of 100 percent of the power industries' boilers has
been achieved to date, while 94 percent of the boilers used. in the plastic
products industries have been upgraded.
(f)    Supervision and management improvement programs have been successful and
continue to be disseminated and practiced in the TVIEs.
(g)    Highly polluting industries such as dyeing and printing, leathermaking,
papermaking and electroplating, will be discouraged. Restrictions will be placed
on metallurgical industries and small oil refineries.
Qh)    The environmental protection organizations at the county, township, and village
level will be strengthened. Problems in personiel deployment
B. WUXI MUNICIPALITY
93.          The city of Wuxi is located downstream of Changzhou on the Grand Canal.
Wuxi borders Taihu and Zhejiang Province to the south. To the northwest is the city of
Changzhou and the Yangtze River is located north of the city. There are many rivers in the area
wbich connect the Yangtze River and Taihu. Wuxi is one of the important industrW cities in
Jiangsu Province and includes textile, electronics, precision machinery in the primary industrial
base, with chemical, metalurgical, light industry, and pharmaceutical production second. The
second tier of industries are the most polluting.
Achievemntbs In Pollution Control in Wuxi
94.          Main achievements in pollution control in recent years have included:
(a)    a reduction of 50 percent of industrial pollution sources through treatment to the
primary level;
(O)   pollution discharge levies have been assessed to factories that discharge effluent
exceeding the national limits;
(c)    7 percent of factory depreciadon fees have been used for treatment of city
wastewater, mainly for the construction of city sewage treatment works;



-74 -                            ANNEX3
(d)      no il Impact assessment reports are now required for all new industri
develop'uent projects;
(e)    a dust-fre region has been instituted within the city and quantified inspections
of the city envirnment are carried out;
(f)   since 1980, much manpower, materia and money has been spent on 20 studies
to provide scientific basis for policymaking and environmental management;
(g)   since 1985, municipal sewage treatment systems have been constucted;
(h)   the treament and disposal of municipal garbage is receiing more attention
currendy, s iS the teatent and disposal of solid waste;
(1)   local and envionme  laws and regulations have been promulgated and
implemented.
Wate Pouton Control
95.          The key wate pollution sources calculated by equivalent pollution loading have
been identified. Ihese 22 enrpes account for 81 percent of the total equivalent wastewater
pollution load Nine key induties dischawe more than 10,000 tons of effluent per day. From
1980 to 1990, Wuxi finished construction of treatment faclities for industri pollution sources.
At the end of this period, there were 131 completed treatment facilities. Overall, there has been
a reduction of dischage loadiqgs of COD, phenol, heavy metals, and cyanide. Removal
standards have been satsfied. Since 1983, 23 factories that were heavy polluters have been
relocated and new pollution control fac'ities have been constructed for these facories.
Muncipal Wtewater Treatment
96.          Establishm    of the municipal sewerage treatment works by stages will be key
to the wastewater managemet system. Municipal wastewer treatment works will be expanded,
based on the implementation of Lucun Sewage Treatment Plant. Construction of Shanbei Storage
Treatment Pla  and Sewer wil begin. Construction of the Mashan Sewage Treatment Plant will
also be undertake   Hand in hand with the development of the trement works wiUl be the
extenson of the sewer system  Treatment of industrial effluent will be undertaken based on
studies of waste minimizaon which can lower waswa  treatmen  costs. Priority wiU be
given to treatme  of industri effluen  in the municipal wastewater treatment plants.
JnldustaWastewater TreatmI   t
97.          A centralized industrial effluent treatment works will be established in the
chemical pron area of nohoern Wuxi. Domestic water supplies in this area wiUl also be
Man Components of Indwu l Poluon Control
98.          The Wuxi Steel Pla currendy disbcharges effluent from residue washing and
cooling into the canal witut treatmen The discharge has a high COD loading. A set of eight



-75-                            A EX
reirculatng system for treated wastewater will improve the water recycling efficiency from the
present 19 percent to over 90 percent. Production in the Wuxi #2 ph eucal factory wil
be altered from citric acid to the production of antibiotics. A 99.5 percent improvement In total
quandty of COD discharged will be realized through this project. Pulp production at the Wuxi
Liyong Paper Mill will be stopped and commercial pulp wiUl be used in the process. In addition,
the paper machine will be renovated. ITe project will realize a 97 percent decrease in COD
discharge to the canal. The above measures are proposed to be financed under tis project and
firther discussions are In Annex 5.
Proces Selection
99.          The development of ce&rj highly polluting industries will be curtailed. Poltry
fams wil be restricted from the urban eid suburban areas of the city. No new electroplaing
facilities will be allowed. Production of pulp in paper mills will be stopped and the factories will
purchase pulp from outside sources.
100.         Economies of scale permit large size organic chemical enterprises to treat waste
more efficiently than smaller ones. Townships will be restricted from setting up small scale
organic chemical plants with highly toxic effluents. The product mixes of certain industries wiUl
be changed including the Wuxi Titanium Dioxide Factory, Wuxi General Solvent Factory, Wuxi
liyong Paper Factory, and Taihu Paper Factory.
101.         Management of effluent sources will concentrate on total pollutant loadings
Instead of effluent concentration in order to make positive steps towards reduction of total
pollutionvolume. An effluent discharge monitoring station and datase for envinnt water
quality will be insttted. Additional strategies include calculation of mass loadings for the
establishment of a system Af water discharge licenses and improvements in the stadards for
dischge levies, acceleating the motivation for waste minimization in industrial enterprises.
102.         A feasibility study wiUl be undertaken to develop a comprehensive plan for
control of Meiiang Lake eutrophication. The implementation plan will be incorporated into the
city development plan.
Strategies for Mr Pollution Control
103.         Over the last five years, SO2 in the air has increased. The source is increased
coal consumption for both dor.estic and industrial use. To date, there are no desuifirizton
units in place in industrW facilities. Due to the lack of controis on S% emissions, the frequency
of acid rains is increasing. Smog is slowly on the increase because of increased automotive
emissions. Crrety attendon is given only to automotive noise control.
Control Measures for Alr Poflution
104.         The main pollution problem in Wuxi is S02 and acid rain caused by SQ
emissions. The control strategy will be to instte desulphurization technologies. In addition,
dust contol devices will be Istalled on industrial faciliies and urban dust free zones wiUl be
established. Green areas in the urban zone will be increased. Wuxi plans to develop central
heatng and  $el gas utilities and to continue to modify and upgrade industrial frnaces and
boilers.



-76 -                            AN=  3
Indusial EmissIons Control
105.         Since the 1970s, boiler modifications have been undertaken in order to remove
particulate matter emissions. Renovation of industrial processes have been undertaken in order
to improve air emissions. Air emissions gas control reached a rate of 59 percent, while
particulate control reached a rate of 64 percent in industries such as steelworks, cement plants,
paint factories, electrolysis, and the Wuxi Hongxing Chemical Factory, as well as the coking
factory.
106.         Short-term measures will include modification of the coking factory, renovation
and modernization of industrial furnaces, controls on automobile emissions, a licensing
regulation for dust emissions. Levies will be charged for air pollution emissions. An air
pollution monitoring network will be set up and database for air pollution will be established.
SoUd Waste Control
107.         Recycling of industrial solid waste has rea3hed 71 percent; however, 30 percent
hasnt been disposed of scientifically. The highest recycling rates have been achieved for bottom
ash and flue dust from coal combustion. Effective management of toxic and hazardous waste
has not yet been instituted. A hazardous waste management program, as well as a hazardous
waste emergency response center would be financed under this project.
Solid and Hazardous Waste Management Strategies
108.         A Wuxi solid and hazardous waste management center will be established. This
wi be part of the Jiangsu Solid and Hazardous Waste Management anu Registration Center.
The Jiangsu Center will manage treatment and disposal facilities overall. Solid waste registration
is the beginnig of a more effective solid waste recycling program. A good database prior to
a comprehensive waste exchange and reuse program is needed. A municipal refuse management
agency will also be established by the Public Utilities Bureau. This agency will manage refuse
treatment facilities.
109.         The Wuxi Hazardous Materials Management and Interim Emergency Response
Center will be constructed in three steps. The first step will be to establish an interim
emergency response center and storage and transportation facilities for hazardous materials.
Wuxi EPB will take temporary responsibility. Eventually, this will become a separate hazardous
matea  management center. The second step will be to set up a formal emergency response
center. Based on the existing institutional framework, hazardous material emergency response
is the responsibility of a number of agencies, including Public Security Bureau, Chemical
Industry Bureau and Health Bureau. The emergency response center will be coordinated by EPB
in the early stage. The third step will be to expand emergency response to include natural
disasters such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons and pestilence. The center will be developed into
a municipal rescue center managed directly by the Wuxi municipal government.
110.         The Wuxi Solid and Hazardous Waste Management and Registration Center will
address issues such as institutional strengthening, legislation, and reporting and registration.
Tis will lay the foundation for an integrated management system and construction of treatment
and disposal systems. A feasibility study for treatment and disposal system is being undertaken
with the assistance of international consultants. Pilot projects will include an incineration system



-77 -                            ANNEX3
and a safe landfill. Ihe last step will be Implementation of hazardous waste trment
technologies and waste exchange, as well as technology transfer to other cities.
Pollution Control Strategies for TVIEs
111.         Under an ongoing JGF-flnanced study, the Jiangsu authorities would, with the
assistance of international consultants, formulate a comprehensive TVIE environmental
management strategy and action plans for Greater Suzhou and Wuxi (covering all environmental
media: water, air, solid and hazardous wastes). This would include policy and regulatory
reforms and priority investments to demonstrate and promote sound environmental management
of TVIEs. Selected priority pilot subprojects emerging from the results of this study would be
financed under the proposed project.
112.         The following nonengineering measures will be used in an effort to control
pollution from TVIEs. An active role will be taken to adjust industrial processes and product
structures to those that are less heavily polluting. For those industries which are polluting,
control measures must be instituted to ensure improvement of effluent discharges. Those
factories with heavy pollution and without control measures must change product production are
cease operation.
113.         Overall land use p.inning will centralize TVlEs development with centalized
development, pollution control can ejoy the economies of scale and polluting industries can be
separated from residenti areas and agricultural land.
114.         In order to strengthen TVIE enviromnental management, an audit system wil
be instited and pollution levies for discharges will be assessed on the overal discharge to
accelerate reduction of pollution discharge or eliminate polluting product lines.
115.         The staff training for management of TVIEs would be strengthened with an
improved awareness of environmental impacts and environmental regulations. IMegal conduct
would be dealt with seriously.
116.         Waste minimization plans would be extended to important polluting enterprises.
Technical modification of facilities with advanced processes, equipment and management, would
be undertaken.
C. CHANGZEIOU MUPcwALrff
117.         Changzhou is located on the Grand Canal downstream of Zhenjiang. Ihe
Yange River is located less than 20 kilometers north of Changzhou city center and to the south
lie two large lake-, Ge Lake and Taihu. The Grand Canal is the most important waterway in
Changzhou. In addition, the area is criss-crossed by numerous local rivers and canals. The
main trunk of the canal divides the city's waterways into two main parts, the northern river
system links the Yangtze with the Grand Canal. All the major rivers connecting the Yangtze and
the Grand Canal are equipped with flood gates. The southern river system connects thc, Grand
Canal with the Ge and Taihu to the south.



- 78 -                          ANNX 3
Pollution Cntrol Achievements to Date
118.         The Changzhou Environmental Protection Bureau was established in 1980.
Water pollution control efforts at that time focused on end of pipe treatment because of economic
and technical limits, progress was not fast. Most of the treatment facilities were built for the
printing and dyeing industry. After 1986, the focus of the work was to reinlorce pollution
source supervision and management, as well as the implementation of the wastewater pollutant
discharge total quantity control and licensing system. Because of reinforced supervision and
management, industry polludon control began to shift from end of pipe treatment to
management, technical renovation and waste recycling. Industrial wasteloads were reduced
signiflcanty and the increase in water pollution was substantially checked. Since 1991, efforts
have been focused on fiuther reinforcement of pollution source point control and the Jiangsu
Construction Committee has prepared the proposal for Changzhou City wastewater outfall fc:
the Yangtze. For more than ten years, the Changzhou EPB focused on personnel training. By
strengthening supervision and management to improve pollution treatment and with assistance
to other municipal departments, the Changzhou Environmental Protection Work made the
following achievements: reduction in COD average concentration and surface waters; COD
loads in urban areas decreased; phenol loads in urban areas decreased; hexavalent chromium
loads in urban areas decreased; cyanide loads in urban areas decreased; from 1985 to 1990 the
total investment in wastewater treatment projects in the urban area was over 13 million Yuan.
The total population serviced by the sewer system is over 600,000 persons.
Groundwatw Resources
119.         Overexploitation of groundwater resources has resulted in a continuous reducdon
in groundwater levels and an accelerated land-surfice subsidence. The water quality in the
Grand Canal is poor and some toxic pollutant concentrations exceed standards. Water quality
at the temporary water intake point near the Yangtze River is variable. The increase of water
supply cannot meet the demands of water consumption. Because of tiis situation, a water supply
augmetation plan has been developed for the city. A permanent water intake will be
constructed by the Yangtze River along with associated watew works.
120.         The city plans to bring groundwater resources under management control and
limit the maximum exploitation of groundwater resources in order to prevent surface subsidence.
City land use planning has allotted an area to the northeast for the purpose of developing a
second Yangtze water works and protecting this water resource by controlling land usage.
TVis
121.         Township enterprises have not produced a serious effect on water quality In the
city at present, out there are some areas of localized pollution near point sources which are dated
for control. In 1995, the flow loads of industrial wastewater and COD loads generated by the
township enterprises will be 2.3 times what it was In 1988. Township enterprise development
will be managed according to the following strategy: a land use plan and a plan for distribution
of industi facilities; a plan to form a utilized industrial structure by adjusting, correcting,
renovating and enhancing; with environmental and economic considerations in mind, to
reasonably allocate resources to guide township enterprises towards healthy development and
protect the ecological environment in the coutryside.



-79-                                3
Management of Industri Fadltes VWiti Changzhou aty
122.         Relocation of certain Industrial enerprises has been an ongoing program in
Changzhou since 1980. In the years between 1980 and 1987, 55 industrial ficilities were either
closed down, merged together, moved, or canceled. With the rapid industri development,
pollutat loads in the city are continuously increasing. Therefore, relocation of additional
facflities is contemplated, including those which have endangered the public headth, for example,
Changzhou Chemical Plant, Dyeworks and Chemical Plant, General Towel Quilt Plant, Coke
Gas Plant, and in the center of the city, Jianming Pharmaceutical Factory. These facilities are
expected to be moved in stages. Overshadowing the rest of the industri facilties, the general
winery is the biggest organic polution source at present in Changziiw City. The COD loads
of this factory constitute a large proportion of the total COD loads dscharged from the city in
the past years. Therefore, the winery is scheduled for relocation.
Domes0c Wastewater
123.        The city is divided into 10 sewage subcahment areas. There are four
wastewater treatment plants operating in the city. Two achieve secondary levels of treatment
and two achieve primary levels of treatment. Not all sewers are connected to the wastewater
treatment plants, however. Unconnected sewers account for 23 percent of the total length of
sewerage and discharge directly to the surfice water system. About 37 percent of the wban
populatioi is connected to he waswaer treatmentplant system. Wastewater from an additional
23 percent of the urban populaion is collected in tanks and simply discharged to the surface
water system. Night soils from about 40 percent of the urban population are collected and used
as fertilizer. With the exception of one wastwat treatment plant, all are heavily overloaded,
running at 150 to 200 percent of their designed flow capacity. In order to improve wastwater
treatment, a primary treatment plant is under construction and wil bo in operation in 1992 to
augmen the Qing Tan Wastewater Treatment Plant. High design flow overload problems are
expected to be alleviated once the Yangtze disposal construction is completed. Sludge from the
waste_atr treatment plants is transported to the countryside and used as fertilizer. The plan is
to route the discharges of municipal wastewater treatment plants to the Yangte River, although
water polution control strategies include improvement of process techologies to reduce
industri waste. In additon, Changzou will introduce land ise planning and plans to move its
economic development area to the north and establish Jiangbian Industial Development Area.
This wiUl transfer about 60 percent of the total watwaters to the Yangte and decrease the waste
loading of Taihu. This is considered to be an optimal strategy since Taihu is a water supply
source with limited self purfication capacity, whereas the Yangtze has a relatively large self
purifcation capacity. Additional stregies include strict control of pollution sources and further
implementtion of the license system and total waste discharge quantity control system.
Assistace wi be given to factories to Improve management, technologies, and put an emphasis
on waste minimization. 'Every main pollution source would have their own wastewater treatment
facilities before 1995.
124.         During dry years, water will be pumped from the Yangtze River to augment the
environmenta capacity of the Grand Cal.
125.         A combined sewer system will be established. While most of the wastewater will
be disaged to the Yangtze after treatment, in some catchments the wtewater wil receive
secondary treatment and be dscharged to local waterways. This is thought to be an fctive



- so -                           ANNEX8
plan to reduce the pollutant loadings to the trunk of the Grand Canal and ultimately to solve the
city's wastewater disposal problem.
Ar QuaUty  agement Stratees
126.         The 31 main air pollution emission sources in the city account for over 80
percect of the air pollution emissions in the city. Air pollution sources are mainly industrial in
origin, with boilers and industrial furnaces accounting for over 65 percent of the total air
emissions.
127.         Air quality management strategies include: further relocation of certain highly
polluting industrial facilities, reproportion of industrial sectors to a mix of less polluting types
of industry; increasing the height of chimneys for boilers and furnaces to augment dispersion of
contants. The efficiency of boilers will be improved. The average heat efficiency of boilers
in the city is below 70 percent. The city gas service level is about 33 percent and the central
heating supply is even lower. The city will move to control air emissions from automotive
sources. Currently, only 32 percent of industrial process air emissions are controlled. The air
emission control devices are out of date and are often out of operation.
128.         The short-term strategy for 1991 to 1995 will include the continued relocation
of certain industrW facilities, a change of fuel usage in domestic settings to molded coal, as well
as the development of a city goal gas supply, renovation and advancement of industial process
tehnology and recycling.
Solid Waste Mbnagement Strategies and Action Plans
129.         The existing situation for industrial solid wastes indicates that recycling has been
ahieved to the greater extent. About 92 percent of industrW waste generated in the Changzhou
City area have been reutlized. Another 6 percent have been treated, and another 2 percent were
dicaged. The most complete recycling of industrial solid waste is in the area of coal cinder
and fly-ash, where the utilization rate was near 100 percent. Recycling and reuse rates for toxic
and hazardous waste are not as complete. The recycling rate for toxic hazardous and solid waste
was about 15 percent in 1990, and the treatment rate was about 45 percent. The discharge rate
was 38 percent.
Indusbial Sludge
130.         Most of the Industrial sludges are currently disposed of by landfill, except for
the dry sludge from the food industry, which is sold as livestock feed. The city plans to study
more comprehensive recycling plans for industrW sludges and to reduce the landfill sludge
quantity. In order to achieve these goals, the following measures will be taken:
(a)    organic sludges generated from textile or food industries will be composted in
an experimental program and returned to farm land as fertilizer;
(b)    biochemical and physical chemical separation sludges will be mixed in certain
ratios for brickmaking;



- 81-                           AHI          3
(c)   certain hard-to-treat sludges will be disposed of in the municipal waste disposal
facilities;
(d)   dewatering machines will be installed in factories which donet have them now.
Muniipal SoUd Waste and Night Soil
131.         Changzhou has a very progressive program for investigating the reuse of
industrial solid waste. Plans for the management of municipal solid waste are somewhat less
developed. There is a plan for developmuent of a high temperature compost plant to process
municipal solid waste with the end product used as fertilizer.
Hazardous Waste Management
132.        It is envisaged that over the medium term, a hazardous waste management and
registion center would be established Changzhou, taking into account the experience of the
proposed hazardous waste management and registration centers at the provincial and municipal
levels (in Wuxi) under this project (AzMn   2).
Training Programs for Changzhou Environmental Protection Management System
133.         A training program has been developed for the city's environmental management
staff. Changzhou EPB will provide training courses in Changzhou and most of the cit;'s and
county's environmental management personnel will participate. Some professional personnel will
receive training at the national EPA and relevant universities. Environmental protection staffs
of the towns and villages will participate in training courses held by the county EPBs and district
environmentl protection offices. The training emphasis will be on environmental regulations
and standards. Senior environmental management personnel will receive instmction at the
taning center of NEPA.  If possible, overseas training will also be arranged.  The
environmental monitoring staff will be trained by Changzhou Environmental Monitoring Station.
Some of these personnel could also participate at the higher levels of training courses.
Technicians may go abroad for training in new techniques and equipment when necessary.
D. ZHENgANG Mumcn'ALuTn
134.         Zhenjiang is situated on the Grand Canal and the shores of the Yangtze River.
The waterways within and around Zhenjiang are a focal point of tourism and are the main
thoroughfares for transportation, as well as vital sources of water supply for domestic
consumption, industrial usage, and extensive agricultural and maricultura needs. 'Me city has
seen substantial increase in industrial output since the 1950s. Significant land reclamation and
flood control works have been undetaken in Zhenjiang and while this development has resulted
in greatly imprwoed transportation rutes, it has led to the alteration in the self-leansing flow
paterns in man waterways in and around the old city area. These factors, combined with the
increase in population and industrial output and inadequate control of wastewater discharges have
resulted in many of the waterways becoming highly polluted and a public health risk.



-82 -                            ANNEX3
Achewemnts to Date
135.         Envronmental qualities since 1985 has basically stayed at the same level while
industrial development bas gone forward. In the last decade, the total investment of RMBY 37
million has been put into industrial waste control with 56 pollution control facilities installed at
a designed capacity of 60,000 tons per day. A treatment rate of 30 percent for industri
wastewaters has been reached and recycling of urban Industrial wastewater has reached 32
percent of the total wastwater flow. Relocation of polluting facilities is a major theme for
Zhenjiang's pollution control program. wince 1983, 17 factories have been relocated and a
seasonal stop has been put on two industrial facilities. According to the municipal master plan,
there will be no more industrial facilities developed within the urban area. Regarding existing
industria facilities, they will undergo technological renovation, will be shut down, combined,
or moved, step by step as new industrial faclities are buit in the suburban areas. Suburban
areas wil be divided Into different districts according to the master plan. An industri park will
be established for chemical industries in the outlying suburban area.
water Pollution Control
136.         Ihe Immediate objdctives for water quality in Zhenjiang are to keep the Yangtze
River within the stndards of Class II waters while the Inner river and Grand Canal wil be
upgraded to Class m. An integated approach to managing water resources and quality would
be adopted, including industri pollution source control; development of urban wastewater
treatment and disposal schemes 0ncluding combined tam  of industri and domestic wastes).
The proposed urban wastew    management component under this project includes interception
of industi  and domestic wasteaters and their discharge to Zhenrenzhou land for land
treatment. The effluent will then be discharged to the Yangze River. Source pollution control
would focus on the lage polluters, including the Zhenjiang Pulp Mill subproject (Annex    and
the Dadong Paper Mill which has become a large organic polluter. The following steps will be
taken to control the situation: (a) renovation and repair of equipment; and b) renovation of the
alkali recovery system. During the next fivP years, the Dadong Paper Mill is planned to be
jointly run by its Indonesia partner. After tnr finalization of the partnership, the pulp malkig
workshop will be closed down and black liquor will no longer be generated as a wastwater
efflurn
137.         Water recycling will be encouraged with the goal of 50 to 60 percent rate of
recycling industrial waters. Industrial water streams will be differentiated between effluent and
clear water to be recycled. The four stage sewagt treatment plant at Dagang Harbor will be
extended to the second stage, at which time it will serve the entre Dagang township. The Jianbi
Power Plant Sewage Treatment Plant is under construction and when fully developed, it will
serve the Jianbi district.
Air Pollution Control
138.         The objective for urban atmospheric air quality is to bring it up to the standard
of Class IL A smoke-free pollution control zone within the urban area will be established. Air
pollution control measures will include the use of briquettes for domestic fuel which contain
whke mud designed to reduce the emissions of SO2. Town gas and civil petroleum gas will also
be developed to replace the polluting coal for domestic fuel use. Replacing the use of coal in
the commercial distri^t as well as the residential areas, with cleaner burning briquettes is lso



- 83.-                           ANE  3
a goal for the near future. The Zhenjiang coking plant will be developed as a town gas supply.
Industria kilns will undergo contimdng renovation and modernization and smoke-free zones will
be established In Zhenjiang. On the basis of te exin seven air pollution control districts,
smoke-free zones will be established. Control of industrial air pollution sources will continue
with particular emphasis on the Jianbi Power Plant. Automotive emissions controls will be
introduced and the city's green areas wlll be expanded.
Soid Waste Control
139.         The Zhenjiang municipal government is establishing a landfill site to be located
downwind of the urban area and in a zone which will not Impact groundwater resources. The
facility will be surrounded by a green belt and will incorporate leachate control measures to
protect groundwater. Medical waste from hospitals will be treated for disinfection and
radioactive wastes will be disposed of according to regulations. Organic waste from the
qusrantine station will be incinerated and not mixed with domestic refuse. Solid waste
management will emphasize the recycling of industrial solid waste, parclarly the utilization
Of fly-ash from the Jianbi Power Plant The discharge of fly-ash to the Yangtze River would
be discontinued. Plans are to recycle 100 percent of the whie mud from the pulp and paper
mill. Recycling of solid waste from the metallurgy, chemical, and pharmacical industries is
targeted for a rate of 95 percent. According to the master plan of Zhenjiang, the rdocation of
industrial facilities will continue. On the list for relocation are the Zhenjiang Smelter and
Zhenjiang #2 Chemical Plant Those already being relocated include the dyestuff factory, the
gourmet spice factory, the leather tannery and others.
Hazawdus Waste MagI
140.         It is envisaged that over the medium term, a hazardous waste management and
regitaion center would be established at Zhenjiang, taking into account the experience of the
proposed Hazardous waste management and registration centers at the provincial and municipal
levels (in Wuxi) under this project (Annex9.
Noise Contol
141.         Noise control within the city areas has become an imperative recently. The
objective is for 50 percent of the regional noise exceeding standards to be brought under control
by the year 1995. Noise control sources would be strictly limited In most of the city, adopting
effective meaure such as mufflers, absorption insulation, damping and other engineerig
measures to abaft noise production. The operating hours of constuction sites located near
residenti would be strictly regulated.
Relocation of Industral Facilities
142.         According to the naster plan for Zhenjiang City, the relocation of industrial
failities will be carried out during the next five year period. These facilities include the
tianium dioxide factory, pesticide factory, smelter, #2 chemical plant, Lixing Chemical Plant,
Xinghua Chemical Plant, Huangshan Cement Plant, and the iron smelting workshop of the
aluminum pceing   ory wilw be relocated. Factries already being relocated such as the
dyestufactory, goumet powder fictory and tannery, will ewpedite relocation opera . The
above mentdoned major polluters wIll be distributed within the bounday of the proposed



- 84 -                           ANEX 3
Zhenjiang urban sewage subproject Witi relocation of these factories and loads, in particular,
the concentrated organics, wiUl be significandy reduced. According to the master plan for
Zhenjiang City development, a chemical industry area covering 2.5 square kilometers will be
built near Jianbi town, with a central tower and water supply as well as a central wastewater
treatmens plant, with a capacity of 60,000 to 80,000 tons daily. The area is already under
construclion and the dyestuff factory has already been established. Snch enterprises as titanium
dioxide factory, pesticide factory, #2 chemical plant, Xinghua Chemical Plant would be relocated
into the industrial park.
Instiutional Strengthening
143.         Manageral staff at the city and county levels will be trained by the Zhenjiang
Environmental Protection Bureau for their duties in implementation of the regional overall waste
load control program and emission licensing procedures. Managerial staff at the town level will
study relevant regulations at training classes sponsored by the county level EPBs. Senior staff
will be sent to the NEPA training center or abroad for advanced courses If necessary.
Monitoring staff will take Waining courses provided by the Zhenjiang environmental monitoring
station. Some staff will also be sent to traiing classes sponsored by NEPA as well as the
Jiangsu Environmental Pollution Board. Some engineers may be sent abroad for training in
order to work effectively with imported technologies and equipment.



- 8S5-                          ANNEX4
OPERATING PROCEDURES OF ENVIRONMENAL
REVOLVING FUNDS
1.           The municipal World Bank Loan Administration Office (PMO) would be
responsible for the operations of the environmental revolving funds. Specifically, the PMO
would include representatives of the following four agencies: municipal planning commission,
municipal finance bureau, municipal EPB, and CIB subbranch in the city coneened. Under the
PMO, three subunits would be set up to cover technical, procurement and financial aspects.
2.           All the subproject entities are industrial enteprises that are significant polluters
and have made payments on pollution levy; they should have clear objectives in pollution
abatement; they should be economically viable and have the capacity to self-finance 10-
30 percent of their investments.
3.           Specific environmental critera for preliminary screening of subproject include
the following:
(a)   consistency with the overall municipal environmental strategy and action plans,
and significant impact on source pollution control; this would include such
measures as waste mmiization, recycling and reuse of wastes, technical
renovation to reduce pollution and increase economic benefits of the subproject;
@)   merger, change of product mix and relocaton of factories to reduce pollution;
(c)   construction of facilities as part of the integrated measures to control pollution
in the city; and
(d)   subprojects to strengthen environmental monitoring facilities.
4.           Within the above framework, the tecnaLcal appraisal should be carried out
according to the following considerations:
(1) the impact of subproject on pollution prevention;
(ii) the impact of subproject on pollution reduction;
(iii)  compliance with natiuoalocal environmental standards and regutions;
and
Civ) the feasibility of the tehenical proposal to achieve the subproject's
objectives.



-86-                            ANNEX4
S.           Before detailed appraisal work is carried out for proposed subprojects, an
eligibility statemeat (with quantified environmental impact and priority in the envirmental
action plans) certified by the municipal EPBs would be sen to the Bank for approval.
6.           CIB Jiangsu Branch would be the overall appraisal agent and would be
responsible for the appraisal of economic and financial aspects. The appraisal will basically
follow tha C1B Appra   Manual agreed with the Bank for use on Bank-financed projects.
Additonal material on this subject may be provided by the Bank from time to time. CIB Jiangsu
would subcontract the Nanjing Environmentl Research Instiute as the principal technical
appras agent.
7.           The economic appraisal of the industrial pollution subprojects will, inter alsa,
hwe to demonste the following:
(a)   all feasible options for pollution reduction had been examined and that the
solution proposed was the most cost-effective, as indicated by the net present
value (NPV, at a discount rate of 10 percent) of the subprojects; and
(b)   the enterprise merits support and that closure of the processes generating the
pollution is not the most cost-effective or economic solution; this in general
would be demonstated by showing that with the proposed subprject, the
enterprise would be economically viable, as indicated by a positive NPV.
8.          In all cases, a flnanciw    appraisal should be conducted to determine if the
enteprise as a whole wil be financially viable. In particular, the enterprise must be able to
service the loan without compromising the financial viability of the enterprise. This would be
menured by the debt service coverage ratio shown by the financl projections which should be
not be less than 1.4 times in each future year once fll production capacity is reached. If this
cndition cannot be met, and provided that the economic criteria is sasfied, the government
would adopt such measures as tax reduction/exemption for the subproject entity. If these
mesre are stiUl Insufficient to allow the required debt service capacity to be met, the
subproject should not be supported without specific World Bank agreement, as this could indicate
that the enterprise has serious financW problems, and its operations may not be sustnable in
the long term. Under such circumstances, closure may be the best solution.
9.           Subloan Size. The Bank loan for each subproject entity would be limited to 100
percent of foreign exchange costs, or 50 percent of total project costs, whichever is higher.
Further, individual subloan would not exceed: (a) $0.5 million for subprojects in the urban
areas; and (b) $1 million and $2 million for TVIE subprojects in Greater Suzhou and Wuxi,
respetively.
10.          Onlendng Tm. The maturity of subloans would not exceed seven years,
Icluding up to three years of grace. Onlending interest rates would be the same as those for
CIB subproject (viz., at a variable rate equal to the Bank rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per
auwm, wih the industrW enterprises bearing the foreign exchange risks).
11.          Subloan Administration. CB Jiangsu wil also administerthe disbursement and
collection of subloan repayments for the subprojects, review the contaMct packages for the
various ndustral subprojects, and detrmine the methods of pocement requied. The



-87-                             ANNMC4
procee for prouremnt and d   _would be tho sam a hosfor Bank-finamcd CDI
projec. CIB Jiagau would not disbur  uids on sublons unles the enterprises hav
(a) satsfactorily completed an eiona   Impact         report (EIA) fn t  propose
subproject and the EIA report has been approved by the loca' EPB; (b) obtned a was_watr
discharge permit for ti existing operato, and a temponry permit for operatio  of the
subproject.



-88 -                          ANN5
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
SUBPROJECTS
A. PROPOSED SunpRoErS iN AN ADvANcED STAGE OF PPARAnON
1.          Ihe industrial sector is a major source of water pollution in th- ,ur cities
covered by the Project, and developing corrective action is a key component of the - -egy and
action plans described in Annex 3. The approach being adopted In all four cities is to
concentrte on developing and implementing corrective action for the largest pollution sources
within each city for which technically and fnancially viable solutions are available. For
industries for which technical solutions are not readily available or for which financing is not
available, corrective action will be developed and undertaken in the medium term stra   and
action plan. Ihe industrial line of credit includes eight proposed industrial pollution control
projects for which feasibility studies have been completed.
Total project   Proposed        Bank loan 2
costs        Bank loan    of proj. cost
----- (In $ Million) -----
Suzhou
Hongy. Psper Mill              81.7            42.1            51.5
Nuasheng Paper Mill             8.1             4.4            54.3
No. 5 Phgrmacoutical            6.5             2.8            43.1
Wuxi
No. 2 Pharmaceutical            6.3             3.4            54.0
Iron & Steel Works             11.1             5.6           50.0
Liyong Paper Mill               3.3             2.5            75.8
Changahon
Changzhou Brveery              18.4             9.2            50.0
Zhenjlang
Zhenjiang Pulp and Paper       30.1            15.1            50.0
Total                      165.5            85.0           51.4



- 89 -                          AM=  5
B. PULP AND PAPER SuBpRojECS
Introdudion
2.           The pulp and paper industry is among the largest water polluters in Southern
Jlangsu region and its rehabilitation is therefore a major component of the proposed Southern
Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project. Four pulp and paper mils located in three of the
project cities are proposed to be supported under the project:
*     In Suzhou City, the "'ong Ye and Hua Sheng Paper Mils,
*     In Wuxi City, the Li Yong Paper Mill, and
*     In Zhenjiang City, the Zhenjiang Pulp and Paper mill.
Strategy for Environmental Protection
3.           The pulp and paper industry in Southern Jiangsu Province, consist mostly of
small inefficient mills which are heavy users of energy and water and discharge large quantities
of untreated pulping wastes. Pulp and paper is the largest single industial polluter in Southern
Jiangau. Most mills are too small to be able to afford the investment in chemical recovery
systems, and the industry has therefore a4opted the stray    of minimizing pollutdon by stopping
on-site pulp production, and replacing the self-produced pulp with purchased market pulp and
high quality waste paper. In Wuxi, the pulping of straw has aready stopped.
4.           This strategy for pollution control imvolves a major switch in raw material which
has a significant impact on the economics of the operation. Therefore an integral part of the
pollution control strategy is to upgrade paper making facilities in order to improve paper quality
and production volume, increase revenue, lower costs, and make the mills financiaily and
economically viable as well as being enviro_nentaly acceptable. To indentify how best to
achieve these ends, studies have been undertaken by an interational consulting firm working in
close cooperation with the mill staff and the Bank.
Subproject DeiptIons
S.           At the Hong Ye and Hua Sheng pulp and paper mils in Suzhou City, a number
of alternaive developments have been examined which involve various combinations of new
equipment and rehabilitation of eristing equipment. The finally selected options which are
proposed for Bank financing are tecbnicaUy sound and provide significant environmental
improvements which will allow the mills to achieve national standards for the paper industry.
A compaison of the existing and 'after-project' conditions is summarized be-ow:



'90 -                            ANNEX
Hong?                IIuma S7wig
Effluent Flow (maIday)
Existi                      31,600                  12,000
Aftr project                16,800                  10,000
COD (tons/day)
ExIst                         71.2                    10.5
Aftr project                   3.8                    0.8
Suspended Solids (tooulday)
Existng                       43.0                    5.5
After project                  0.8                    0.7
6.          'Me 2heaiang Pulp and Paper Mil suflizs from a number of problems which
result in heavy dschage of suspended solids and COD. With the osistance of consultat the
mil staff have developed a program to significanty reduce polu     rough rebabilation of
existing qpmt and histallation of ae equipment, and at the same time increase production
nd quality to make the mill financially and economically viale. Most of the suspended solid
mal curently being dicaged is lime mud, calcium caron, wil be recovered and sold
to lcal cement  Mctories or other Industries where it wi be a welcome high quality raw
7.            Ie Woemt In                 impact of the Zhenjiang Pulp and Pape Mil
rsting from the project is   mzd  bdow:
Effluent Flow (me/day)
Exsting                     46,000
After project               21,500
COD (tons/day)
Existig                       82.2
Afterprojc                    11.0
Suspended Solids (tonday)
Existing                      63.4
After project                  1.1
8.           in Jamuy 1992, the U Yong Paper Mill in Wuxi took the major step of dosing
is pulping secton in order to delate most of Is COD and speed  solids discharges.
owemv, replacement of t  selfproduced pulp wih higher cost purched fibers has put the
mill in a loss position. Thereore it is proposed tat the Bank project would assist the mill to
beome financal and econically viable by rehabitlon of exsting equipment to aRow
utin i of a higer quaty product.his proosed project has bee examined by the Bank
and found to be technically sound.   he    iImprm              t be achieved is
summarized below:



-91-                                 S
With pup mW                   4ter
In operation                proect
Total effluent flow (ms/day)    9,300                2,500
COD (tons/day)               8.9                        0.4
Suspended solids (tons/day)  7.2                       0.2
Subproject Cost Estmates and Benefits
9.           The cost of the subprojects in the pulp and paper industry as descre  above is
estmated at the equivalent of $123 million, of which $64 million would be In foreign excdhmge
and proposed for Bank financing.
10.         lTe total environmental improvement as meured by the expected reduction in
COD and suspended solids discharges is as follows:
Bore project            4After project
Total effluent (m31day)       98,900                 46,100
COD (tons/day)                  173                      16
Suspended solids (tons/day)     119                       3
aivrounmnt Assessment
11.          Erong Ye Paper MiR. The mill is locaed in the upper reaches of the Suzhou
section of the Grand Canial. some 10 km southwest from the city. It contibutes about 50 percent
of the citys t,,a industri  COD discharge and is Suzhou's largest polluter. During the
summer, Can  water around the mill turns black and septic. The project will eliminate pulp
making and instiute other water pollution control measures, significantly impnrovig wastewater
effluent, up to discarge standards and permit requireme, and ambient water quality wil
imprve by one dass standard. Part of the dewatered sludge will be inieated and the residue
taken to the plant's landfill site. Air pollution will be controlled by the instalation of two 20
t/h boilers to replace the existing three small boilers. Cyclone will be inled for dust removal
and the stack will be elevated to 45 meters. The resultant emission would meet local stards.
Coal dust and ashes are under contract for brick making. ITe enonental assment report
(EA) has been approved by NEPA.
12.          Bua Sheng Paper MD. The Mill is located in the upper reaches of the Suziiou
section of the Grand Cana next to the famous Hasbhan Temple. It contributes about 15 percent
of the ct's industrial wtwar pollution. With either proposed renovation and waste
_tream  project, aftewards effluent discharge will meet local disage sandards and comply
with waste discharge permit requirements. Ihe ambient water quality will improve by one class
to Class IV standards. The dewatered sludge will be taken to the plant's straw storage site where
a landfill will be built. The plant will control air pollution by instling a scrubber, whereupon
thse emission will meet local standards. The municipal fuel company has contracted with the
plant to collect coal dust and ashes to make bricks. The EA report has been approved by Suzhou
E}B.



-92 -                           ANNEXS
13.          Wuxi  Young Paper Mll. It is an old mll established in 1925 is located in
the north suburb of the city near the east bank of the Grand Canal. A major reduction ef
effluent discharge to the Grand Canal has already been achieved when the pulping section of the
mill was closed at the beginning of 1992. With this elimination of pulping and bleaching, and
adding conventional wastewater treatment facilities to treat the industrial and domestic
wastwater of the Mill, its final effluent will achieve discharge standards. The dewatered sludge
will be incinerated in the boilers. After completing this work, the quality of the surrounding
water body will improve by at least one class. The EA report has been reviewed and approved
by Wuxi EPB.
14.          Zhenjiang Pulp and Paper Mill. The Mill is located near the Yangtze River
about 13 kIlometers downstream of Zhenjiang City. Curreny, wastewater is discharged to the
Yangtze River and the Grand Canal with only preliminary treatment. The areas receiving the
effluent are seriously polluted. Upon compledon of the proposed subproject waste loading would
reduce dramatically and more easily treatable especily with regard to black liquor and
bleaching. There will be no more wastewater going to the Grand Canal which has but little
assimilative capacity. With all wastewater subjected to primary and secondary treatment, the
effluent would meet discharge standards and the total area affected by effluent discharge to the
Yangtze would be very much smaller than before. Dewatered sludge would be partly incinerated
and partly taken to rural areas as fertilizer. Sulfur dioxide as the primary air pollation concern
in this subproject, meets natonal standards except under inversion condition. Plant management
would reduce the number of smaller stacks and raise the min stack height to get better
dispersion as suggested by the EA. Lime mud, coal ash and collected dust are under contract
to takeo to cement and brick makers. The EA report has been reviewed and approved by the
Zhenjiang EPB.
TECHNICAL ASSLSTANCE AND TRAINING FOR SUZHOU PULP
AND PAPER MILLS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backround sand Brief Outline of Progam
15.          The environmental improvement programs at the Hong Ye and Hua Sheng Pulp
and Paper Mils which werejointly developed by the mill staff and their international consultants
involve signiicantchange in process technology and grade mix. Specifically, the mills wiUl close
its straw pulping operation to stop the major environmental problem, and use instead purchased
fibers, including recycled printed papers which requires de-inking. The grades of high quality
paper to be produced after this change are not currenty produced in China. The production of
quality paper from de-inked waste is common practice in Europe but is new to China, and
therefore the staffs of both mills will require special technical assistance and training. The staff
of both mills plan to utndertake an overseas study tour of selected operations in Europe which
speciaize in production of high quality paper from de-inked stock, following which they will
define in detail the Terms of Reference for an appropriate program of traiing and TA. The TA
program is Intended to assist the mills to master the de-inking process, to assist in the detailed
design of appropriate processing systems, and to help the mills in the commissioning of the
plants and their initial operation. The general list of tonics to be covered under the program are
listed below and will be included in the detailed TOR i be submitted after the preliminary study
tour:



-93 -                           ANNEX
*     Classification and grades of waste paper
*     Quality of do-inked pulp made from old newspapers and other publications
*     Technical design and operation of alternative types of do-inking plans
*     Current and fiture availability and prices of recycled paper on world markets
*     Visit mills which produce quality computer and xerographic paper from do-inked
recycled paper in order to learn the special techniques and main problems in
production, eavironmental protection, quality control, cost control, and
ma_tnnce.
*     Obtain assistance from foreign consultants to assist in the design and operation
of the new system to be insIled at the Hong Ye and Hua Sheng mills.
C. NONPAPER PROPOSED IDUSTIA  SUBROJEs
Suzhou Pb_iall No. S Factory
16.         The Pharmaceutical No. 5 Factory produces a number of synthetic drugs with
the fllowing four main products: (a) doxycycline, 30 tpy; (b) glucarone, 80 tpy; (c)
paracetomol, 400 tpy; and (d) sodium diclofenac, pilot testing only.
17.         The factory is located within the main city of Suzhou. 'he present site is
rowded and there is no room to modernize the facilities and accommodate essential expanded
wastewater trement systems, and with the present technology employed, the effluent are
difficult to treat. The production processes are technically outdated and generate the following
heavy water pollution loads: (a) total wastewater, 950,000 tpy; and (b) total COD, 453 tpy.
18.         Under the proposed project, the factory will be relocated from the inner city to
3 km outside the city, product mix will be expanded and use of chemicals wil be minmized by
recovering and recycling with use of improved technology. The expanded cpacity is shown
below: (a) doxycycline, 30 tpy; and (b) glucurone, 120 Wpy; and (c) paracemol, 660 Wpy; (d)
sodium diclofenac, 30 tpy.
19.         The expanded facilities will employ improved technology concentadng on
icreasing recovery of chemicals and reducing the amount of waste materis generated. Ihe
resultig lower volume of wastewater can be treated cost-effectively by conventional methods.
The proposed project would include wastewater recycling and treatment of the remaining effluent
to lower COD dischawge from 453 tpy at present to 91 tpy after project completion. The treated
effluet would be piped to the municipal East City Wastewater Treatment Plant. Thus,
substantily all COD will be removed before discharging into canal network. Existg plant site
wil be converted into R&D and training facilities for the company which would not have any
gnificant enromental impact.
20.          Technically and enviromentally, this project is sound and forms an effecdve part
of the staegy to clean up the inner-city canals and to move all industry to full compliance with
national/local environmental standards.



-94-                            A r s
21.           nvlronent Assesmet. The fac  Is located In the northem part ofthe it
wher tie population density is high. Its wastewater has been discarged ino the oute moat for
many years, causing serious harm to the environment. Air pollution created here Is also a
nusoa    to the nearby residents. The proposed project will reoe the entire production   the
suburban area amid rur land. With the acdon, t wil no longer be a polludon 1hreat at the
present plant she. At the now site, wastwae effluent will be conneo   to the mnicipal sewer
system. he p   d teatment system would treat al Wastewater to sewer rcepton stadrds.
The fial effluent from the municipal watewr  treatment plant would meet d dchares.
The air polludon problem from the factory is mainly from the mAnActuri  of Glucuane and
from the boilers. The proposed project would install 2 su of absorption devices with an oal
removal effi'-ency of 98 percent. The emission from these absorption devices would meet
national stanmrds. The 4S meter stack will be equipped with a dust collector which wil ensue
that the fna emission from the boiler stacks would meet the standards. The EA has been
cleared by Suzhou EPB.
Changzhou Brewery Factory
22.          T-he Cbangzhou Brewery produces beer, alcohol and nonacohole drink and is
the largest single source of water pollution in the ciy. The brewery is located adjacent to the
Grand Canal and has limited and under-sized waste water trent facilities for its beer
production and no treatment for the alcohol production; and discharges its waste water direcdy
into the can with minimum treatment. The present productio profile is as follows: (a) 11,000
tpy alcohol; and (O) 30,000 tpy beer.
23.          In addition, the pioduction of soft drinks is rela   ;small and produces
substanlly no pollution except in botte washing.
24.          The preset water pollution discharge load is as follows: (a) 6,800 m'/d total
wast water; and (b) 21.2 tpd COD, of which 20.S tpd is from alcohol production.
2S.          The proposed subproject would Include:
(a)   building anew, larger alcohol factory at a new location about 10 km outside the
inner city; alcohol production at the existing site would be stopped with only
beer and soft drink production remaing;
(b)   changing the raw material from yams to maize t faclitathe  treaing of
resultant residues;
(c)   incorporating modem waste minimization technology, including convmersion of
waste material into by-products (e.g., animal feed); and
(d)   treaing all remaining wastewater at the new location to close to nadona
ttandards before discharging into the municipal Wastewater treatment system.
26.          Under the proposed subproject, COD would be reduced from the present level
of about 21 tpd COD to about 0.25 tpd prior to dischage to municipal wa_ewae treaot
system, at a concentration of about 3S0 mugA. ITis level is above nationl stndards, but the
higher level Is part of the overall waste water treatment strategy in Chazbou and the apprach



.9S-                             ANEX
Is coidred a cost effective solutio   Us wate watwer  atr_ cilities aI the old st wil
be upgraded to  meet national standards of 300 mg/i for fermentatn procese  befor
dischargi  into thie can, SIc, at pes   h*e sewerag systO  does ot reach the   o  are.
In the medium tem plan, tie sewera  system wil be extded to include this effluen
Treatwnt of the waste water from the alcohol pln Involves spartig the soids from the
fermnationpoes and converng them to nimal feed (caled distilled dr grain solids).
About 20,000 tpy solids will be produced and sold as amal feed for export and local
conson.
27.          EnAssomt             TIhe brewery is an old plan located In adjacen to
the Grand Caald in the populated ar  of the city. At the prent, with efots the wastewaters
are ated but unable wo achieve legal discharge   due to very high ital c
Ihe proposed project would move the most polluted part of the producton, alcohol productio,
to a new sike at dte subub and alo adopt a cleaner process. At te exstg plant by adopting
a  leaner production process and solid waste utilation would drastically rc luce waste
produion and produce a more easily treatble waste. After treatment, the final effluen at both
old and new sit would me  effluent dbdi go st8ands. At the new sie, wutew   cud
soon be connected to municipal sewer. Dewatered sludge would be party inc ated and the
remaiig landfilled in the new site where there is lae pare land space. ITe dust, collected
from air poUution contl equipment, and ash from the boilers were already under conta with
a brick fictaoy. The EA report has been reviewed and approved by the Changho EPB.
Wuxi No 2  rm ucal Factory
28.          The factory, located in the northern part of Wuw, currty produces citric acid,
viamins and a small amount of antibiotics, aU derived via fementation technology. The present
productin profile is as folows: (a) 3250  tpy citric acid; (b) 14.5 tpy antibiotics
(iacetyspiramycin and gentamycin); and (c) 25 tpy viamin E.
29.          The fermentation process genraues a large volume of organic wstes that are not
treated to saisfacry standards in the present facidities and the fatory now discarges about 29
tpd COD into the canal nwork leadig to the Grand Canal. Mis effluent load level is well
beyond allowable pollution disge standards.
30.          The ppo   subproject would indlude:
(a)   product rerucring to less polludng tecinology-the production of citric acid,
which is highly pollutig and difficult to treat, will be stopped; at the same time,
the production of atibiotics would be increased frm 14.5 to 47 tpy; and
(b)      deization and expansio of watwater eamnt facilities (aerobic and
aerobic systems); and reduction of sludge by blogas conversion.
31.          AUl technology i basod on  mm    y pwoven local desisn. The project i
well pared and tecically satsatry. Some of the existing fementation "qipm6at will be
ued in the moderization project, plus addig modem equipment particularly for process
ope         and packaging to meet WHO standads (GMP) for the factory. Poduct closute and
swtching to a higher vaue, lower volume product with better process control results in
substtally less pollution load but still above standards. The aerobicanaerobic treatment of the



-96-                                  E
was products from fermentation generates methane that is used for fel, a solid waste stream
that will be recovered for disposal as an agricultura soil supplement, and a waste water stream
that contains about 150 mgf, equal to about 0.12 tpd of COD, or wel under national standards.
The total reduction in COD load to the Canal is about 28 tpd. In a sub.equent phase, when the
municipal sewerage network is completed the factory waste water will be sent to the treatment
system rather than discharge to the canal. The production profile after the project will be as
follows: (a) 47 tpy antibiotics (acetylspiramycin and gentamycin); (b) 25 tpy vitamin E; and (c)
citric acid production will cease.
32.          Antibiotic production technology will be based largely on local technology, but
critical equipment will be imported and the design will be based on standards to ensure products
achieve GMP and permit exports to take place. However most production is intended for local
markets. The anaerobic treatment technology requires special design considerations and
technology will need to be obtained from qualified sources. At present, the factory does not
have firm disposal plans for the solid waste. Although agricultural use is likely, proper disposal
should be monitored during supervision.
33.          The project would involve consumption of small quatities of hazardous
chemicals such as acids and organic chemicals. The project design includes satishfctory
provisions for safey and treatment of all of these chemicals according to national Chinese
standards.
34.          The project is a good eo-=ile of the environmental strategy and action plan for
Wuxi, including elements of technology upgrading/product switch to less polluting tecbnology,
waste minization and reutilization of wastes and modern end of pipe treatment to meet
satisfactry environmental standards.
35.          Environment Assessment. The factory is located net to Mingfeng River on
the northern border of the city. The factory's wastewater is discharged into the Grand Canal
though Its tributary. Solid waste produced in tie production process is piled near the river and
gets washed into the river in the rain. Under the proposed suproject, major product mix change
would reduce waste production and produce a more easily treatable waste. A fairly sophisticated
anaerobic/aerobic wastewater treatment system will be added to the existing treatment facilities.
The resultant effluent would reach effluent discharge standards. In the future, with the help of
Lucun municipal wastewater project, the effluent here wi1l be connected to the municipal sewer
dta would eliminate direct pollution to Migfeng River. The wastewater sludge is to be
dewatered and part of which is incinerated in the boilers and the remaining taken to farm land
used as fertilizer. There is no air pollution problem now. The boilers are already equipped with
dust and smoke removal devices and there is also a 40 meter stack. No problem is anticipated
after plant modification. The EA has been reviewed and cleared by Wuxi EPB.
36.          Relocation.  To accommodate additional space for wastewater treatment,
approximately 4 mu of vegetable farmland will be purchased. Only three farmers will be
affected. They would be compensated according to relocation regulation and they have agreed
tD be trined and work at the pharmaceutical factory.



-97-                             AS
Wed Steel Works
37.          The factory has a capacity of about 300,000 tpy of steel making (seven electric
arc furnaces) and 300,000 tpy of steel rolling in four rolling mills; producing a wide range of
special steels and steel products such as seamless pipes, rods, wire and alloy bars. The factry
is small and technologically outdated by international standards and generates an unusually large
amount of pollution. The factorv is located near the Grand Canal, downstream of Wuxi and next
to Wuxi coke works. The , i mill discharges large quantities of poorly treated waste water
into the caa at present. Vr  steel plant is quite large and spread over a large area and at
present discharges waste water with minimal treatment In seven different points into the canal
network. Water recycling rate is low.
38.          The proposed subproject is the first part of a phased approach to upgrade the
plant and address its pollution problems simultaneously. The subproject includes 12
subcomponents, including product mix upgrade (higher quality steel), substantial recycling and
consolidation of the many internal waste water streams to reduce waste water discharge by
93 percent, waste minimization to recover sulfuric acid as a iron sulfate byproduct. The waste
water would be combined into four streams and each would be treated within the steel plant to
a COD level of less than 300 mg/I, thus reducing total COD discharge fr" 30 tpd to 2.5 tpd;
and oil from 0.34 tpd to 0.03 tpd. The effluent from the plant would then je discharged into
the municipal wastewater treatment system. Thus no water pollution would go to the Grand
Canal directly from the steel works.
39.          The following table summrizes the pollution reduction as a result of the project:
Effluent                         before    ier    Reducdon   %
(tpd)   (rpd)
Wastewater                      48,000   3,300        44,700  93
COD                              30.00    0.25         27.50    -
Ss                                3.40    0.28          3.12  95
Oil                               0.34    0.03          0.31  91
Water recycling (%)               18.0    90.0             -   -
40.          The project is technically sound and is consistent with the strategy of waste
minimizaion, product upgrading and recycling. The project is financially atractive due to the
savings on reduced water charges, byproduct sales of ferrous sulfate and the additional revenues
from the higher quality steel products.
41.          Environment Assessnent. It is one of the largest fectories in Wuxi, located in
the southeast part of the city, downstream from Wuxi section of the Grand Canal. Presently,
it exrat about 50,000 tons of water from the Grani Canal daily and its wastewater is
discharged back to its tributary after use. Concern of poRution are primarily organic pollution
and chemical pollution. Upon completion of the proposed subproject, the total discharge Is
expected to reduce by more than 90 percent both for quatity of water used as well as pollution
loading. The treated final effluent would meet sundards before discharge. The domestic
w    er generated by the fctory will be conneted to domestic sewer treated at Lucun
Wstwater Treatment Plant. Sludge would be incinerated in the boilers. The EA has been
reviewed and cleared by Wuxi EPB.



D. ADDmOML PROFPOsD POLUrMON CONTROL SUDPROJECIg
No. Cttyleentzifta                                        Subprojeclt1                                     coD          F8
Total     L.B.       tpy    cempleto   priority
(T aln) ($ la)
ZbeM11an city
1.  ZheJ1ag flab Chemlcal Pactory  Relocations  dyattff luatemsdiate units   22.0                  2.5  1,964
Pbenol 7.8  arly 93        first
2.  Zleajteag lb. 2 Che1ical factory   Relocations rbber chemical additiree             15.0       1.5     897    October 92    vst
3.   Zhenj mg Chemical Plant              Asbestos elilsnation from Chlor
Alkali production                               VA        A  Aebesto         NA       standby
4.   Zievjlang Titanium Dioxide factory Closure                                           IA        E*      1,236
(88 3,411)     NA       stndby
Total First Priort                                                                 NA.        4.0
lbtal  sauh                                                                                    Rh
1. Xlno^lma   4r Chem cal  nd. To be i*std fom thentbresdaia*l are of the cty to aexistig chemicalpaik Hydrog. sulfide and bydregm  dMrcrbauseto the
ateaosphe.m ato -*i mk
2. N. 2Chen"ia Faehy. To be reboaed fim the centerof the cy (adjacent to a hospal) to   cheb ical padck Hydxu,a dfio aoissdon is ao a pinbkm
2. Zhath  Chemial Phaln. Asbesosdiapha    oott cls ar used nd routine rqpdwaat of the dhegs                cnsidrablebk uatwiis of wtand ar
bonm asbeses. T  es wowd be rpaced with membtane unis.
4. Thanlm diMaid& Facory. A number of op aonsmate under ondda undbi>ngrlcation to the chemd pak and processroupia      4 ckosur
Note Industirs relocated to d  chemia pak would cay o  waft water perbunt only, seondaryset woud be in o           -a helli   h  ba  ye to be
o_                                                                                                       C3~~~~~~~~~~~~



no.  Citylenterprise                            subproject                          Investmeut         CO            S
Total     F.E        tpy      completion  Priority
(1 m)  ($ m)
C&ezo ou  Cit7
1.  Chakgbon Chemical. factory TOCA process change and closure of
downstresm units                                   99.0      8.4     1,142       Sad 92       First
2.   Changabon Chemlcal Factory Process change of chlor-alkali units                48.5      4.5    Asbestos
Elimination   End 92       fitst
3. Chasbnhou go. 2 Cheomical
factory                 Proces restructuring and phenol recovery           25.0       2.3       6de
PhbeoL 42.6  Complete      Frist
4.  Changshou Rubber Factory   Relocation and consolidation with other unite   12r!.          1.5        Air
PolLutio    End 92      Standby
Total first oThIrit                                                          iJ2.5     15.2
Total Standby                                                                iL0∞        1.5
1. and 2. Chemmial Factory. Rplacenmt of eisting TCCA cqcity (500 tpy), wicbh geneats high saline water discoes, wih now 5,000 tpy nit Some other
prodt nes, aso poluting are to be cosed.  ed diprapgm chk aLi cets (40,000 tpy NaOH) in two phau  so thadtsbes nainoonsof th wast water (fhm
the axskas d* agms) is eliminated. lbe poije comrises the fir phase, the second phase would be completed in 199S.
3. NM.2 Chem2ca Factory. Process chnge pus phenol recovey. Ie pbenol disre fim this uni comprises about 59 percet of toa pbe   wihin ChangzhoCu.
4. Rubb1   Fatory. Past of a project to set up ceul ubber refining and poceingcenter outside the city and to modernie the press.



RO.  Cityleuterprise                                Subproject                        Invest^nat        COD      FS
Total     F.E.      tpy  completion Priority
(T mlc;  ($ mln)
Mud city
1.  Jiangyln Pesticide Factory       Relocatsoc of phosgene unit                     80.0       8.0      -     End 92       First
2.  Wuan Chemical Croup              Process change to close polluting unit           55.0      4.5    532   Complete       First
3.  Eulstan Pesticide Factory        Relocation of phosgene unit                      31.5      3.8      -    Complete      rirst
4.  Wuxi Electro Chemical Pactory   Process change for asbeetos elif-nation           45.0      4.5  Asbestos End 92    Standby
Total First Priority                                                            166.5     16.3
Total Standby                                                                    45.0      4.5
Remtarks:
1.&3. Pesdicde Fadory. Reboation of hazardous phosgene producton unit fom innr city area
2.   Chemula  Group. Shutdown of old unit and modernzation of othrs. Elminadon of by-product calcim (9,000 tpy) which is curnty dumped.
4.   Eletro ChbenaL Factoy. Replcement of asbetos diaphmgm chor alkaU unts (30,000 tpy NaOH).



go.  Cityjenterprsae                                 Subproject                       Investmeh          COOD       FS
Total     P.E.       tpy    completion Priority
(Y min) ($ min)
Suabos city
1.  Suzhon Pesticide Group           Asbestos elimination from chlor alkall cells   48.0        4.5   Asbestos   End 92        Firet
2.  Sushou Yhudn Chemical Factory  Process change of CMC                              42.0      4.8        300 November 92    First
S.  Chaugeu Chemical Factory         Process change of Pot. Carbonate                 48.0      4.S  Uitrogen
reduction  Complete   Standby
4.  Suzhou Synthetic Chemical
factory                         Relocation of fuaric acid unit                   14.0      1.5        600    End 92       First
5.  Suzhou Pesticide Group           Shutdown of high pollutIng unit                    NA       NA      NA          -       Standby
6.  Zbangjiagang Chemical Factory  Relocation and new process                         12.0      1.S   aszardous
gas    October 92  Standby
Total first urloritv                                                            152.0     15.3
Total Standby                                                                   12-0+     1.54
Rcem
1. Pediide Group. Asbeos emination in ch  Alkli, ceLs in two phas, the fiS  under the poj  and the scond in 199.
2. YhuIn Chemicad Fadory. Batch proes to be ebanged to continuous nd polution due to fibers and sohlns wil be chminaed.
3. Chungsh Chetmcal Fatr. Change fiom Solvay to  ctzo chemical process wil obviate the dumping of 6,000 tpy of amniumn chboMe into the ver.
4. Suhou Synthc Cbemical Facltry. Rdocation from inr ty of fimaric acid unit and process change with signif  it ;rkducton in ir and water pollution.
6.             Chanlc a Factory. Reloaio fiom  ity cater of sodium h"popha plaiL Unit reases dan s qates of phosphine and phosphorous
petioxide.



- 102 -                          ANNEX
URBAN WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT COMPONENTS
General
1.          The urban wastewater management components of the proposed project comprise
the first phase of a longer term plan to first improve and then maintain water quality in the major
water bodies of the Southen Jlangsu Province. Ihey will, in conjunction with the proposed
industial and paper subprojects, significantdy reduce the total pollution loading and improve the
overal quality of effluens discharging into the existing water bodies. The physical works
represent the first stage in a step-by-step approach to achieving the National, Provincial and
Local Water Quality Objectives.
2.           The proposed components are located in the cities of Wuxi, Zhenjiang and
Changrhou, the total urban population of which were estimated to be about 1.7 million in 1990
ard which is forecast to grow to about 2.2 million by the year 2000. In each city, the key
investment will be in the construction of systems of intercepting and connecting sewers to collect
untreateddomestic wastewater, together with partially treated or pretreated industrial wastewater
from the most densely populated urban areas of the cities and transport it to sewage
treatment/disposal facilities. Ite investment for the treatment facilities have been matched to
achievable investments in the local sewerage networks, interceptor and tunk sewerage systems
to serve the design populations.
3.          in Wuxi, sewage treatment for about 80 percent of the population within the
urbanized city area will be provided by extensions to the existing Lucun treatment works with
effluent disposal, ater secondary treatment, into the Grand Canal to the southeast of the city.
4.           For Zhenjiang, the collected wastewater from almost all the existing urbanized
area about SD percent of which currently discharges directly into the Inner Yangtze River and
the remainder indirecldy via the Old Grand Canal and the Yunliang Canal, will be piped under
the Inner Harbour to Zherenzhou Island and discharged, initially with pretreatment only, into
the Outer Yangtze River. Secondary treatment in the form of waste stabilization ponds has been
planned for the next development phase.
5.          In Changzhou, new collection and interceptor sewers will enable the domestic
wastewater *fom about 40 percent of the existing urban population to be transferred to a new
Sewage Treatment Pant providing primary and secondary treatment. Improvements to two
existg treatment plants will improve and extend the level of treatment being provided to the
wastewa generated by a further 20 percent of the population.
6.          In all three cities, the new sewerage networks will also intercept and collect the
partally treated effluent from the majority of industral premises within the urban area.



-103 -                           A         6
7.           The projec components, combing effective collection and Interception of
exitng wastewater flows with eiher pmary  d seconday  eatment (Wuxi and Changzhou)
Or preliminary treatment and improved discarge (ZhenJiag) are expected to ha  a conoiderable
impact on improving water quality in the man water bodies wihin and adjoin the project
cities. The most significant improv    will be sen In the urban sectio  of the Grand Canal,
smaller car.a's and waterways in all cities, in the Inner Yangiz River at Zheniang and, to a
lesser ex1!., u Talhu.
Project .. .j nents: Wwd ($33 mion)
8.           The greatr part of the Grand Canal passing through Wuxi suffers seious
pollution and is classified as Class V (Annex 1) water body. The assimilative capacity of the
CarA can handle about20 tons of COD per day, and the total COD removal capabilky ot the
131 industrW treatment facilities can manage another 22 tons per day, but the tot discharge
of both domestic and indusi effluent per day oontain about 150 tons of COD. The ambient
water environen of Wuxi can be improved only if the dicharge of the pollution load into the
local watrays can be significantly reduced through sewerage, with the collected wasewater
treat  In a large centraized municipal tratment plant.
9.           Ihe key investment will be in the provision, renewal and extension of urban
wastewater collection systems and the provisio of an extended ntwork of Interceptr sewers
to service residential, commeal and industrial properties within the cathment area of the
Lucun Sewage Tream   Pla. Appxy 75 pecet of this catchment area wil be
serviced under the project, an area coveringa y 3500 ha and encompassing 80 percent
(800,000) of the 1990 urb  poputn and almost 60 percent of the major indust  pollution
load. The extensions to Lucun Sewage Treatment Plant will provide primary and secondary
treatment for respectively 200,000 and 100,000 m'lday, covering about 80 pern of the total
catcment area. Effluent will be discharged into the Grand Canal immediately southeast of the
existig urban area.
10.         It is estimated that about 25 km of the Old Grand canal and some 175 kn of
urban rivers and watways will be improved to a level at which malodors wil be removed. The
water quality modelling indicaes however that the 15 km of the new Grand Canal which passes
between the city and Taihu is unlikely tO be significany improved undl upstream actions,
outside the city area, are taken to reduce the influent pollution loadings.
11.         The project wold also provide funds for the purchase of equipment and vehicles
for sewer system cleaning and maineance, together with inm , equipmen and testing
facilities for the monitoring and control of effluent d es. A technical assistance program
will be provided for detailed engineering desig and project management, and for taining
managers and operators who will be Involved in the provision, opation and management of the
sewerage systems and sewage trm     facilities and in    e l  monitoring and control.
12.          The proposed wastewater treatment plant is desiWed to treat 200,000 ton of
waste water per day employing secondary tream     process, with the site located at Lucun on
the down stream of the Wuxi secton of the Grand C l. Te treatment will remove about 110
tons of COD per day, and would dgnificaty alleviat potetal polhuion of the Grand Canal
downstream of Wuxi. Lucun Waste Water Tresaen Plat wil be the largest In the region



- 104-                            ANNEX6
Provision of further training for its management and operational staff would be provided under
the project.
13.          'he project components for Wuxi would comprise:
(a)    constuction of about 44 km of 400 nm  to 400 mm diameter trun  and
interceptor sewers;
(b)    provision of about 290 km of 150 mm to 300 mm diameter new, replaced or
renovated reticulation sewers and connections;
(c)    construction of 14 sewage pumping stations with a total installed capacity of
223,000 m3/day;
(d)    construction of 50,000 m3/day of secondary treatment facilities to complete
Phase I of Lucun Sewage Treatment Plant;
(e)    construction of 100,000 m3/day of primary treatment facilities under Phase Ii of
Lucun Sewage Treatment Plant;
(t)    construction of additional sludge collection, dewatering and auxfliary facilities
related to (d) and (e) above;
(g)   procurement of pumps, control gear, mechanical and electrical equipment, plant
and vehicles for (c), (d), (e), and (t) above;
(h)   procurement of equipment and vehicles for sewer system cleaning and
manenance;
gl)   procurement of instrumentation and equipment for the Sewerage Company and
Wuxi EPB for effluent and system monitoring;
Oj)    establish and confirm a new sewerage company combining the previous
Drainage and Sewage Treatment Companies with financial, management and
staffing objectives acceptable to the Bank;
(k)   technical assistance for review, project implementation and programme
management of new and improved sewerage systems and for the extension of the
Lucun Sewerage Treatment Plant; and
OI)    provision of training facilities combining overseas, in-country and in-city
programs for managers and senior technical and finmcial personnel extending
as necessary to provision of in-house training for operators engaged in sewerage
and sewage treatment operations and the provision of modem training aids,
equipment and reference material.
14.          EnvIronmental Assessment   While the proposed subproject will bring
substantl environmental improvement to Wuxi, some possible side effects have been identified
and sti under the project's enviroment assessment and mitigative measures were proposed.



- 105 -                           Abu=
The main concerns are pretreatment of industrial wastewater and final disposal of sludge.
Relocation of affected persons is discussed In nnex 14.
1S.          Pretreatment of Industrial wastewater can prevent municipal wastewater treatment
plat from biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) overloading or hazardous substances jeopardizing
plant operation. BOD overloading of municipal treatment plant has never been a problem in the
past for existing fcidiies because low sewerage collection rate has never allowed full capacity
operation. However, in the future, to make the proposed investment cost-effective, the Lucun
plant will revelve design level sewerage collection. All industrial wastewater discharged to
municipal sewer should receive pretratment to acceptable standard for sewer reception according
to the operating rules for municipal sewerage systems. In addition, the most polluting industries,
acconting for 80% of the total industrial wastewater pollution loading, have received waste
discharge permit, monitored and enforced by local EPB which takes both organic and hazardous
waste discharge into consideration. Under the pollution levy system, the levy applies to organic
wastes as well as hazardous wastes, including heavy metals.
16.          The Wuxi Sewerage Company has concluded contracts with farmers to use the
excess wastewater sludge from Lucun as fertilizers. This is a common practie in China; to
ensure the safety of applying the sludge, control of heavy metals is essential. In this connection,
no problem Is envisaged at the Lucun treatment plant which has established a system of regularly
analyzing the contents and concentation of heavy metals in the sludge at its laboratory. Finally,
the municipal government has confirmed in the environmental assessment report that the
municipal landfill would be the last resort of sludge disposal.
Project Components: Changzhou ($26 million)
17.          In Changzhou, the key investment will be int the extension of the existing
wastewater collection system and the construetion of interceptor sewers, pumping stations and
trunk sewers to transport urban domestic and Industrial wastewater flows to a new wastewater
tream  plant to the north of the city center. Wastewater from about 40 percent (200,000) of
the urban population and almost 20 percent of existing industrial poflution loadings would be
collected and discharged, after secondary treatment into the Zhao Jiang River and later into the
Yangtze. Additionally, the proposed project would extend the service area and treatment
capai es of the emisting sewage treatment plants at Qigtaa and Llhua to serice a furher
20 percent (100,000) of the urban population and 10 percent of existing industrial pollution
loading. The three treatment plants would provide treatment, to secondary standards, for about
75,000 m&/day.
18.                 Ihe effluent discharges and pollution loadings from the new (Chengbei)
and extended (Qingtan and Lihua) sewage treatment plants are expected to be within the
assimiltive capacities of the receiving watercourses. In the case of Lihna, water quality in the
Datong river wil not be significandy improved until the pollution loadings from existing
industries, particularly the MSG factory, is reduced.
19.          The project would significantly Improve the water quality in about 125 km of
the Grand Cana and other city waterways. Further water quality improvement will occur when
the effluent from the north treatment plant is transferred to the Yangtze River for disposa.
Some 200 ha of residential, commercial and industrial land adjoining the improved waterways



-106-                             ANN    6
would beneft direcdy fom enhanced land values, improved health and a cleaner, safer
20.          IhO project would also provide fimds for the purchase of equipment and vehicles
for sewer system cleaning and maience, together with instrumentaion, equipment and testing
faciities for the moitrng and control of effluent discges. A significas program of
technical assistace will be provided for project design and program management, and for
tining managers and operors who will be Involved In the provision, operation and
management of the sewerage syms and sewage treatment facilities and in environmental
monitorin and contol.
21.          Ihe project components for Changzhou would comprise:
(a)    construction of about 20 km of 450 mm to 1,400 mm diameter interceptor and
trunk sewers;
(b)    provision of about 7 km of 450 mm diameter new branch sewers;
(c)    constuctio  of 5 pumping staions with a total in ed capacity of 75,500
me/dar,
(d)    constctdon of a new 50,000 ml/day sewerage treatment plant at Chengbel
providng primary and seondary treatment facilities with effluent discharge to
the Ziao Jiang river;
(e)    costruction of an additor  SOO5 m&/day of primary and secondary treament,
sludge dewat     facilibtes and adminion building at Qingtan Sewage
Treatment Plant;
(f)    constction of additional 5000 me/day of primary and secondary treatment and
sludge dewatering facilities at Lihua Sewage Treatment Plant;
(g)   prourement of puwps, control gear, mechanical and electrical equipment, plant
and vehicles for (c), (d), (e), and (t) abovee;
(h)    procewme  of equgim   and vehicles for sewer system cleaming and
()    prouement of I,  equipment and testing facitities for effluen and
system monitoring;
0)   aestablish and confim the new sewerage company with management, staffing and
financial objectives acceptable to the Bank;
s)   technical assistnce for detailed design review, project implementan and
programme management of new and imrroved sewerage systems and Sewage
treatment plas; and



.107 -                 ~~~~ANNEX f
(I)   provision for a training program combining overse, in-country and in-city
programs for managers and senior tcnial and final poel, exndig
as nece  to provision of In-house trainig for operaos engaged in swerage
and sewage treatment operations and the prvision of modern ainng aids,
equipment and reference mateial.
22.          Environmental Assessment. The environmental impact concerns are similar to
the Wuxi waster cowmponent noted above, namely industrial prereatment, sludge and waer
quality impact downstream to plant discharge location.
23.          The downstream water qualities from Lihua and Qintang wasewater treatment
plan will not be seriously affected since discharges are withn the assimilative capacity of the
watercourse. However, effluent from North Treatment Plt will increase the pollution loading
of Zhao Jiang River. The affected portion are mostly in the rural area so population affected
is mnimized. In the longer term, it is planned to be discharged through a trunk pipe to the
Yangtze River. The control measures for industrial pretreatment and wastewater sludge have
taken similar steps like Wuxi.
Project Componens: Zhenjlang ($25 million)
24.         In Zhenjiang, where some 70 percent of the city is already sewered, the key
investment will be in the interception of existin outfalls which dishage untreated effluent into
the Grand Canal, the Yunliang Canal and the Inner Harbour of the Yangte River. These flows
would be transferred by gravity trunk mains and 7 pumping stations via a twin bore 1.2 and
1.4 m diameter steel submarine pipe under the Inner Harbour to Zherenhou slland for
discharge, iitially after preminary treatment, into the outer Yangtze River. Secondary
treatme  using stabilization ponds has been planned as the final treatment process for he
wastewater. A 10 ha pilot waste stabilization pond system would be constructed under the
project on the future site at Zherenzhou Island to determine the most cost effective type and
combination of anaerobic and aerobic ponds to provide the required level of treatment for
dharge into the Yangtze River. The proposed project would provide the first major
investment in meeting the long term water quality objectives for aU the major water bodies
adjacent to the city. It would sharply reduce pollution bothin the Inner Yangte River and
improve water quality along the banks of the Outer Yangtze RUver into which the polluted waters
of the Iner Yangtze currendy discharge.
25.          Some 5 ka of the Grand Can and 2.5 km of the Yunliang Canal would have
significantly reduced poUution and, like the 7-km foreshore of the Inner Harbour, would no
longer suffer from malodors during periods of low flow. Residential, commercial and industri
areas adjoining these waterways would therefore benefit from enhanced land values, conditions
for better health, and a cleaner and safer environment.
26.          The project would also provide equipment, plant and vehicles for sewer system
cleaning and mahnenance together with equipment, inn  and testing facilities for
effluent and system monitoring. Technical assistance would be provied for detailed uesign
reviews of the tnk, submarine and outfall sewers, for the design and monitoring of the pilot
waste stabilization ponds, for project implementation and programme management. Training
would be provided to engileers, managers and operators whc would be involved in the design,



- 108 -                          ANNEX=  f
implemetion and operation of project components and in institional management and
finance.
27.          A plan of land acquisition with proposals for relocation and compention for
people and buildings affected by the constrction of sewers, pumping stations, outfall and pilot
ponds has been prepared and was reviewed at Appraisal. Advance notification has been given
and discussions with affected families has begun.
28.          lhe project components for Zhenjiang would comprise:
(a)   construction of about 23.8 km of 400 mm to 2000 mm diameter gravity flow
trun and interceptor sewers adjoining the Inner Hatbour, Grand Canal and
Yunliang Canal;
(b)   construction of about 3.2 km of twin 1,200 and 1,400 mm diameter pressure
flow outfall sewer on Zherenzhou Island;
(c) construction of 1.9 km of twin 1,200 and 1,400 mm diameter pressure flow
submarie pipeline under the Inner Harbor;
(d)   provision of about 3 km of 250 mm to 400 nun diameter new or replaced
reticution sewers and connections;
(e)   construction of 7 sewage and overflow pumping stations with a total installed
capacity of 1,335,000 me/day;
(f)   construction of main pumping station at Jiangbin with preliminary treatment
facilities and an installed capacity of 320,000 mr/day;
(g)   constuction of about 400 ms of 1,600 mm diameter outfIll pipeline with
diffusers, support strucaure and emergency bypass;
(h,   construction of about 1.5 km of river bank protection works;
O)    construction of access roads and buildings on Zherenzhou Island and
administrative offices, workshop and garage at Jiangbin;
0j)   constuction of about 10 ha of pilot waste stabilization ponds and associated
buildings on Zherenzhou Island;
(k)   procurement of pumps, conrol gear, mechanical and electrical equipment, plant
and vehicles;
(l)   procurement of equipment and vehicles for sewer system cleaning and
(m)   procurement of instumentation, equipment and testing facilities for effluent and
system monitoring;



-109-                             ANEX6
(n)   technic  assistance for detailed design review, project implementation and
programme management of new and improved sewerage systems, pumping
stations, outfall pipe and diffusers and for design and performance monitoring
of pilot waste stabilization ponds; and
(o)   provision of training faciliuies combining overseas, in-country and In-city
programs for managers and senior technical and financial personnel extending
as necessary to provision of in-house training for operators engaged in sewerage
operatons and the provision of modern training aids, equipment and reference
material.
29.          Environmentl Assessment. The collected wastewater including both industr
and domestic wastewater, with only minimum treament in the short term, is to be discharged
to the Yangtze River. Thus, it is particularly important the industries should be subjected to the
most stringent pretreatment requirement particulary pertaning to hardardous substance control.
As hazarous substance control is a national pollution control priority, Zhenjiang has a good track
record of conrAolling its hazardous substances, with the exception of high concentration of phenol
In the Old Grand Cana, all the major rivers section of Zhenjiang comply with standards as of
1990. It is important tham this effort be maintained.



-10-                              ANN1107
URBAN WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
TERMS OFRERNC
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CONSULTANTS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.           Fhe Municipalities of Changzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang are about to commence
implementation of a World Bank assisted Environmental Project which includes extensive
Improvements to he cities' urban wastewater collection and disposal sysems. These
improvements would include the constuction of intercepting sewers, reticulation and conmcing
sewers and pumping stations in all three cities; a submadne pipe, pressure main, river outfall
and some 10 hectes of pilot waste stabilization ponds in Zhenjlang; a fiuther 50,000 me/day
of secondary treatment and 100,000 melday of pmary treatment faclities at the Luaun Sewage
Treatment Works in Wuxi; and the construction of a new 50,000 me/day Sewage Treatment
Works providng primary and secondary treatment at Chengbei together with an additiona
5,000 e/day of priay and secondary tratmt capacity at the Qingtan and i&u Sewage
Treatment Works in Changzhou.
2.           Ihe three Municipalities wish to appoint a suitably qualified firm to act as
Project Implementaton Consultant ("the Consultant") to assist the cities' project implementation
agencies with implementation management.
3.           In view of the mnmber and complexity of contracts to be let under the Project,
the Cities wish to develop standardized procedures for the review of detailed designs,
specications and biUs of quantities, the prequdiflcation of contactors, preparation of conract
doumeaon, the evaluation and award of conacts and to establish an appropriate system to
manage and monitor project implementation.
B. SCoPE OF WORx
4.           Ihe Consultant will assist the Municipalities to:
(a)   review  detailed designs and technical specifications, where neceary,
particuirly for the new and extended sewage treatment facilities in Changzhou
and Wuxi and for the pilot waste stabilization ponds, submarine pipe and river
outfall in Zhenjiang;
Ob)   prepare standard bid documents, satisfactory to the Municipalities and the World
Bank



-111-                            ANNEX 7
(c)    prequaif potenl bidden and idetify potei  Wpliers;
(d)   establish suadad tendering and bid eauation pocedures;
(e)    astablish quality control criteria and procedures for monitorilg stands;
(f)   implement a construction management system for cill worls and equipment;
and
()    assist with the idendfication and organization of study tours.
For 7Jae4sg, the Consultant will also:
(O)   provide guidelie for the design, operation and maintenne of the pilot waste
stbilization ponds and for the moni g of influent and effluent quality. In
this regard, the Consultant should also advise on the range of alternative design
parmetes to be testd and identify apprpriate aing cours for technical
and opratonal staff;
S.           Bid Dcmets. During finalization of bid documents, the Consultant will
weiew engierng designs, specificadons and other relevant   on   to ensure they
conform to good design practice and to World Bank guidelines. Bid documents will be subject
to review by the World Ban
6.           Review of Tehcal Specficatons. Stadard techical specifications are
available for many ites, but there will be cases where modificatons or additions may be
appwplate. Whe  necessay, the consulat wll assist the Municipalities to draft revisions or
additin for inclusion in the relevat bid documents.
7.           Prequal etln. Where conractor prequalificadon Is required, the Consultant
Wil asst the Municipatie to advertise for potential contractors to prequalify, to evaluate
prequalification submissions and to establish a shordist for bidding.
S.           Tendeig and Did Evaluation. The Consultant wfll assist the Municipalities
to establish and adminster stndard procedures for competitive bidding and award in accordance
with World Bank Guidein  and project aeements in relation to International and Local
Compettive Bidding (ICE and LCQ) and for ntrational and Local Shopping. The Consultant
will advise oD relevant ntenatonal and local suppliers where appropria.
9.           Qualty Control  he Municipalities and the World Bank wish to ensure that
civil wods Implend under the Project are of a high stndard and will therefor require
guidance from the Consultant in establishing afpropriate quaity monitoring and reporting
procedure.
10.                Const     a Management System. The Consultant will assist the
Mnicipalities to establish an inormation system  to manage contra    and monitor
implementation progress. The system should be designed to identify problems at an early stage
and to provide project proess ifmation for the mnicipalities and the World Bank at regular
interls.



-112 -                           AN=  7
11.         In-Cty Taining Seminars. Te Consultant will conduct at least one incity
training seinar In each city during the period of the consultancy contract. These seminars
would be expected to extend over a period of about 15 days and would be attended by selected
personnel from each city. The seminars would address topics of relevance to all cities, including
specification and design, prequalification, bidding, evaluation and award of contracts, contract
management and supervision, quality control, safety procedures, operations and maintenance.
Additionally, the ConsUltant would address topics of specific relevance such as waste stabilization
ponds and river outfalls in Zhenjiang and activated sludge processes in Wuxi and Changzhou.
12.          Overseas Study Tours. A limited number of officials are expected to travel
overseas to visit sites of technical relevance. It is expected that such visits will be arranged as
part of a separate training program for each city, but the Consultant may be requested to use his
good offices tu make introductions or to assist with travel arrangements.
13.          Pilot Waste Stabilization Ponds. The pilot pond system in Zhenjiang is
expected to provide essential data or the cost effective design of the Municipality's long term
wastowatcr treatment system. The Consultant will be expected to provide guidace to the
Municipality on the design, layout, operation and performance monitoring of the piot ponds and
on the range of design alternatives and parameters to be tested. Advice will also be required on
the methods for and frequency of influent and effluent qualty monitoring.
C. CONSUTAT TEAM
14.          The consultant will be expected to provide intermittent technical assistance to
the Municipalities over a period of four years commencir,g late 1992. During the initial
stages, frequent advice is likely to be needed. Subsequently, once sta1lard procedures and
working methods have been established, the need for technical advice and the fequency of
visits will reduce.
15.         In view of the need for frequent, short visits, the Consultant may wish to
work from a regional office within or adjacent to the People's Republic of China. In any
event, the Consultant should arrange good comunication fcilities between his office, the
Municipalities and the World Bank in Washington.
16.         Tka Consultant will provide about 21 person-months of professional staff
input, approximately 9 months In year 1 and 4 months in years 2, 3 and 4, and will appoint a
Senior Advisor/Team Leader as prime representative. The Team Leader will be a senior
public health engineer, having appropriate regional experience and familiarity with World
Bank procedures and procurement guidelines.
17.          The Consultant will be fully responsible for the provi3ion of the necessary
dcills within the team. The Consultant's staff will be expected to be appropriately qualified
and to have experience in China or elsewhere in the region in the following technical fields:
(a)    World Bank procurement procedures for civil works and equipment;
(b)   contract management and supervision;
(c)   quality control for civil works; and



-113-                             AN 7EX2
(d)    public health engineering, including the design and construction of submarine
pipes, pumping stations and river outfalls and of the design, operation,
management and monitoring of sewage treatment plants induding activated
sludge and waste stabilization pond systems.
D. SCHEDULE AD REPORTING
18.          The technical asistance to be provided under these TOR will commence as
soon as possible and will continue for a period of four years.
19.          The consultant will submit brief, monthly reports during the first ful year of
the contract and quarterly reports during subsequent years summaizing progress achieved,
difficulties encountered and issues to be resolved. Six copies of each report (in Chinese) wil
be sent to each Municipality and three copies (in English) to the World Bank in Washbion.
20.          Where the Consultant assists materially in the modification or preparation of
designs, specifications or other relevant documents, the Consultant will send three copies to
the World Bank, for information only.
E. MATERALs, DATA AND SuppORT SERviCES
21.          Ihe Consultat when providing tehical assistance, will work in the offices
of the Municipalities who wfll provide appropriately furnished office accommodation at no
cost to the Consultant. All available data, mapping, printing, office support and local travel
facilities will be provided at no cost to the Consultant.
22.          Each Municipality will provide appropriate counterpart and support staff to
work with the Consultant, and will arrange introductions to other agencies as required. The
Municipalities will provide interpreters to work with the Consultant as required.
23.          The Consultant will bear all payroll costs of its staff, plus all costs incurred
by its staff in comection with interional travel, accommodation and subsistence.
24.          The Consultant wUil be fully reimbursed, at cost, for any expenses incurred in
connection with overseas study tours.
25.          The Consultant will be reimbursed, at cost, for any expenses reasonably
incurred in connection with telecommunications, courier services and printing, related to the
provision of these consultancy services.



- 114 *                          AN=  Af
LAND ACQUlSITION AND RELOCATION
1.            he proposed sewerage componts wll require land acquisition and resetement
in three munlcalities, Zhenjiang, Wuxi and Changzhou. Based on the preliminary eogineeig
design, approximatdy 370 persons will be affected by land acquisition. In Zhezlang, 169
persons, in Wuxi 110 persons and 91 persons in Changzhou will be affected. In Zhenuiang,
2,891 m2 of land will be acquired resulting in house demolition but no productive firm land will
be acquired. In Wuxi, 32.7 mu of la  will be leased and another 153 wil be acquired for the
project In Changzhou, 82 mu of rurr. land will be acquired and 5,059 mn area of housing will
be demolished.
2.           Whilo mog of the detailed dedsg of these componn would be completed by
mid-1993, the detailed design of some Iterceptor sewers is scheduled to be completed in 1995.
Thus, the resetlement plan of these components is expected to be revised, as appropriate, upon
the completion of the detailed design. During negotiations, the principles and monitorig
idicators of the resettlemen plans were agreed and set out below.
Legl Regons
3.           The following legl rls are applied when land acquisition and housing
demolition is iniiated.
(a)    Regulation (No.78),   inIsi   on Utban House Demolishmen
(b)   Jlangsu provincW regulations on enforcin tLaw of Lad Ad  t
(c)   The municipal govenments will also enforce loeC laws related to house
demolition and resettement.
Princple  of Resetlment
4.           Compensain for land and/or housig should reflect maret prices. I land is
temporaily acquied or leased, adequate centn should be paid for income lost and
households losing land shoud be offered an altenat, source of employment to maintain their
andard of lving. ITis land wil be restored and retuned to the people within a stiad
period of time.
5.          If housing is provided, adequate inasructure and serices should be provided
and replacement housing shud be similr to or an Improvemet on the original house. Rousig
should be within reasonable traveling distnce from the work place.



6.          If faand is to be provided through redistbUution, project authorities should
esare x that te remining land parcels are adequate to support the households. This would apply
not only to those households giving up their land for the proJect but households who had to give
up some of thir land for redistibuton.
7.           If there is a change in employment from farmer to worker the Implementing
agency shod ensute that the affe d people do not suffer a drop in their income and are able
to at least maiain or improve upon their original standard of living.
8.           Resettlement and relocation plans should be agreed upon between the affected
people and the implementing agency. The implementing agency should take measures to curtail
encoacment on acquired land in order to avoid future claims. Any illegal occupants of land
or houses should be reasonably compensated and assisted with rehabilitation. Resettlement of
any additional households after the final engineering design is completed, should be according
to similar principles.
9.           The implement   agency should montor resetlement and Indicate what
measurements were used to ascertain if the affected people were maintaining their original
standard of livint. Copies of progress reports should be submitted to the Bank.
Monitorng Indicatrs
10.          Compensation is paid to project affected people (PAPs) prior to relocation and
reflects market prices. Compensation for land acquisition is paid to the relevant local
inistrative unit and the finds bave been allocated towards development plans for the affected
community. 'Me sh*ftngcosts paid to PAPs accounts frinflation and is pald prior to
relocation.
11.          Replacement housing is within reasonable commuting distance from the work
place and offers adequate infrastuctur and services and is equal to or better than the original
house. Any illegal residents occupying land that was acquired received due compensation and
assistamce to relocate. Farmers chaging employment to workers have not experienced a drop
in income or are entitled to benefits from the work place that compensate for any lowering of
incom.
12.          Replacementhousingprovides adequate infastrucureand services and is similar
to or better than the original house. The PAPs are satisfied with their relocation and have the
oppority to express any grievance and receive aiance from the implementing agency.
PAPs ae infomed about the time period for which land is acquired/leased tmporay and the
land Is restored to its origina condition at the time of handing over. To ascerain whether or
not reetlement has been implemet  in a manner saactory to the PAPs and they have not
experienced a drop in their standard of living, consultaion with PAPs and household vist post
relocation is essential.
Cbangzbou
13.          The proposed sewerage component in Changzhou would require the relocation
of 41 perso and demoltion of4,788 m of houses in theurban areas. In the rur areas, 75
pesons would be displaced by the acquisition of about 82 mu (5.5 ha) of land.



-116 ^                           ANNE!X a
14.          Arrangements for relocation and compensadon will follow "Changzhou Urban
Houses Demolition and Relocation Management Reguaton," effective as of December 28, 1991.
This regulation also applies to rural area. According to Article 22 of the Regulation, there are
two modes of compensation for displaced households: (a) in cash-compensation would be based
on 100 percent of the market value of the new houses; or (b) in kind-through an exchange of
property rights. Under this method, affected persons are entitled to an equivalent replacement
house, wihh the value of the replacement house counted as 80 percent. Thus, a demolished
house would be exchanged for a house 20 percent higher in value. The above compensation
arrangement is acceptable.
15.          A Resettlement Working Committee has been organized by the Urban
Construction Commission Project Office under the supervision of Municipal House Demolition
and Relocation Office. During the implementation of this project, the Municipal House
Demolition and Relocation Office will work with the Land Acquisition/House Demolition and
Relocation committee which has also been formed specifically to implement this project.
16.          The aff cted persons have been consulted about the relocation plan well in
advance of acual relocation. Households to be relocated, along with their employers, were
made aware of the above regulation, compensation and moving schedule. The affected
households have completed negotiations with the Resettlement Working Committee. In the urban
areas, all the affected households are living in old houses, generally with substandard electrical,
cooking and plumbing facilides; they are in favor of relocating to modern apartments which
would be more spacious. Their jobs will not be affected by the relocation.
17.         The Regulation specifies that affected rural households will receive Y 100,000
per mu for vegetable fields and Y 60,000 per mu for rice paddies. The village will provide land
for new houses. Compensation for house demolition is as noted above (para. 1). 'he displaced
farmers would be retrained to work at the wastewater treatment plant.
18.          The dmetable for land acquisidon and relocation is as follows:
1993         1994
House Demolition      Area demolished
and Relocation            (n2)            4,788.5        270.9
Urban areas
Persons                                      35             6
Rural areas
Land acquisition     Area Acquired
(mu)               65.4       16.461
Persos                                       44            31
Zheplang
19.          The proposed sewerage component in Zhenjiang would result in relocation of 65
households or 169 persons.



- 117 -                          ANNEXS8
20.          The land acquisition, house demolition, and relocation and compensation process
would be based on 'Amendment to Jiangsu Provincial Land Management and Implementation
Reguations and Zhenjiang Urban House Demolition and Relocation Management Regulations'.
This would be carried out by the Wastewater Interception Project Office under the supervision
of Municipal Land Acquisition, House Demolition and Relocation Office. Houses to be
demolished are old houses In the old city section along the Old Grand Canal. As in the case of
Changzhou, the affected persons have been consulted well in advance of the actual relocation.
No job changes will occur.
21.          The site for the proposed wastewater treatment pond subcomponent on in
Zhenrenzhou island is presently used as a fish pond by a group of about 50 fishermen/farmers.
This group would be compensated for the land acquisition by the sewerage company based on
the 'Amendment of Jiangsu Land Management and Implementation Regulations." The timetable
for land acquisition and relocation is set out in Table 1.
22.          Land compensation fees have been established according to the land type, present
function and location. For this project, the rates are determined as follows:
road (asphalt road)      = Y 70/r2
low-grade agriculture land
(based on forest land)  = Y 3,000/mu
reed land (tidal land)   = Y 750/mu
Wui
23.          The proposed sewerage component in Wuxi would require the relocation of 90
persons. In addition, 153.7 mu of land would be leased and 32.7 mu purchased. Regarding
regulations for land aquisition and relocation, organization of the work, negotiation process and
compasation, Wuxi's approach is similar to Changzhou and Zhenjiang. The timetable for land
acquisition and relocation is as follows:
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Land to be leasea (mu)              22    22    24    23    23    23   16.7
Land to be purchased (mu)          0.7   31       1     -      -     -      -
Persons to be resettied             16    52    22      -      -     -      -



PROPOSED ZNEllANG AVERAGE COMFON3NT
Table 1: TIOMsAKB& FOR LOnD ACQuMnEoN AND RPUECAUhN* (POND AND PUWMPIG STAlUO4S)
Hose                                 Ld  aciqu±-
Area          Year   hold8      People      Moving time    8ica costs   Ca.ipenestiun    Total
Cm')                                                         (Y'OO)          (Y'OOO)      (T'OO)
Jianbien P.S.                 10,000          993                                              300              400            340
Fsouohaogm  P.S.                 525          19941a    -          ,                    -       73               30            103
JMlefng rd. P.8.               1,980          1995I      - -                            -       90               40            130
PYnsbenq1s. P1,200                            1995j - -                                 -      110               40            150
YTnjsax P.8.                      700         1995Jg-                                   -       60               40            t00
RbIsbusluqo P.S.               1,120          1994       9        29       199S (12 mos.)       60               40          1,026
Kiah.qiao 1.8.                   560          1995       4        14       1996 (12 woo.)       60               40            890
Waste ater Pond               100,000      1993-941a     -         -                    -    1,500                 -         1,500
116.085                   13        43                         2.253            2.700          4.239
RELocAnoN PLAN FOR ZHONSNQAO Ow GRAND CANAL SECTION
Location                      rea          Time of                      Relocation                       Costs       Moving
(a1)     implementation      Households       People         Time         (S'000)        to
Shanhebion                    360            1996                6            14           1995           216
(5 months)                   I
Dienle   Road                 120            1996                2             5           1995            72
(5 months)                   !
xijiaanm                      840            1996               14            34           1995           504         I
(5 months)                      Jisabien
Rhanghuting                   600            1996               10            25           1995           360         I Resldential
(5 months)                     Development
Danyang Dock                  300            1996                5            12           1995           180
(5 months)                   I
GsDaa lactorg                 900            1996               15            36           1996           540
(5 321ths)                   J 6
Total                  3,120                               S2           126                        1,872



- 119 -                          ANNEX9
HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MATERIL MAUNAGEMENT IN
SOUTHERN JLANGSU
ntroducion
1.           Precise Inforaton on hadous waste geneaton, treatment and disposal in
Jiangsu is not readily avlable. The 1989 survey of industral and hazrdous wastes carried out
by the Jiangsu Environmental Protection Bureau  ) esdmatedth at the total production of
solid indus   wastes In Jiangsu province to be 17.S mfllion tons per annum. Of this, about
1.2 million tons is considered to be toxic and hazadous, and the four cities of Suzhou, Wuxi,
Changzhou aWn Zhenjiang account for about 420,000 tons per annum.
2.           The current practices for the utlization, teatment and disposal of hazrdous
wastes are unsaisfactory, and In qualitative te    are nokwn to be causing extensive pollution
of soils, surface waters and groundwaters. This e ml degradation is not confined to
the urban areas alone; it is evident In the countyside where TVEs predominate.
3.           The impact on the enrkonment due to e Improp management of toxic and
hazardou. wases is particulaly severe in Souther Jiangsu becue (a) the region is relatively
small and densely populated; (b) rapid industriization has led to heavy pressure on shrinking
farmland; (c) the province i low lying with a high proportion of land are coveted by surface
waters; and (d) increaig pollution of surface water has led to an increasing reliance on
oundwater which, because of ts proximi to the sunface, i susceptible to pollution ftom
uncontrolled landfills and stockpiled wastes. Experience from developed countries shows that
in the absence of effective controls, the efects of haardous wastes can only get worse as air and
water pollutants are gradually tunsferd to the hazardous waste strams.
Regulation
4.           China has not yet promulgated a comprehensive national hazardous waste law,
though, some exn laws and regulations control aspects of hazadous waste management.
These Include *The Envion   I Protection Laws of the PRC", "The Laws of the PRC on the
Prevention and Control of Water Pollution3 and "The Law of the PRC on the Prevention and
Control of Air Pollution", which include aticles on solid waste pollution and treatmen  The
natura resources m  ement laws such as 'Tho Law of the PRC on Min    Resources" fous
predominantly on prevent    tratme  and compreensive utilization of solid waste. Tbese
laws do not cover all wa, dcarges, treatent and disposal unirmly. To address these
issues, the National Enom       Protection Agency  A) has been working to develop
national re tons   hazadous wast management In China. Thee legiative Iniiatives a
currently including 1) "ITe Solid Waste Prevention and Control Law" focusing on industri
solid wastes; (I) 'Hazardous Waste Reglons  fcusing on regstrton of waste producers,
liensing of treatmt and disposal facilities and polludon disha  fees; and (I) 'Regulations



- 120 -                           ANNEX92
for Solid Waste Registration" providing specific control of industrial waste producers. These
regulations are in various stages of drats and have not been sent to the State Council for review.
JEPB has been waiting for these regulations to be enacted before commencing work on more
detaied provincial regulations to implement them. In this connection, the JGP-financed teical
assistance program to NEPA has included the development of regulations on hazardous/toxic
waste management.
5.           To promote safe handling of chemicals, the Regulations for the State
Management of Chemicals (1987) deals with the management of hazardous materials. These
regulations apply to all enterprises and cover the manufacture, storage, transportation, handling
and use of hazardous chemical materials. These are defined by characteristics such as
explosivity, flammability, toxicity and corrosiveness. The regulations require:
*     premanufacture examination of chemicals;
*     submission of an inventory of chemicals and other documentadon, such as on
emergency response, to the Chemical Industry Bureau;
*     safe storage of hazardous chemicals;
*     registration of storage and transportation with the respective Chemical Industry
and Transportation Bureaus;
*     permit for handling, sale and distribution of hazardous chemicals; and
*     monitoring of use of hazardous materials by local government.
6.           Recently, NEPA has published draft "Procedures for the Control of Hazardous
Wastes." These procedures are formulated to prevent and control the pollution by harmfil
wastes, strengthen the control on these harmfal wastes, protect and improve the environment and
safeguard the health of the people." The procedures make NEPA responsible for the preparation
and issmance of "State list of Harmful Wastes" and the identification of testing methods of
harmful wastes and pollution control criteria. Local EPBs are responsible for developing the
"Local Supplementary Lists of Harml Wastes" and the relevant criteria. The procedures do
not specify interprovinciat coordinaton or the basis for developing the criteria and the lists. Ihe
procedures do not address the responsibilities and institutional arrangements for hazardous wastes
management and interrelationship between NEPA and other authorities. Radio-active wastes are
specificaUy excluded under the procedures. However, it is not clear about the applicability of
the procedures to a mixtwe of radioactive and hazardous wastes. Although the procedures
prohibit disposal of "hamfl  wastes to water bodies, farm fields, natural preservation zones,
etc., they do not mention landfills or fixation/solidification techniques nor do they prohibit
specific discharge or disposal to nonfarm, land, provided proper precautions are taken.
7.           The procedures take positive steps towards regulating the handling, storage,
transport and safe treatment and disposal of harmful wastes. Licensing and trainig are
prerequisites for a firm or an individual involved with hazardous wastes. Monitoring is not
specified per se nor is environmental auditing. The procedures specifY the types of fines and
suspensions to be imposed on anyone contavening the procedures. However detailed regulations
will be required to address the various issues outlined in the procedures.



- 121 -                          ANNE 9
Hazardouls Waste and Material Man ent Strategy and Action Plan
8.           Jiangsu urgendy needs to develop an environmentally sound, integrated and
functional hazardous waste and material management and control system. This would include
management from the time of manufacture or import of hazdous materials, transportation,
handling and use of those materials, and treatment and disposal of any hazardous wastes
generated following the use of the materials. The basic famework within which such an
inteated system can be developed already exists, with a network of provincial, municipal and
county level EPBs.
9.           In 1991, a JGF-financed study on hazardous waste management was undertaken
with the assistance of intenational consultants. The study objective was to assist JEPB/WEPB
in the development of a detailed program to (a) establish a Jiangsu Solid and Hazardous Waste
Management and Registration Center (IMRC) at the provincial level and a pilot program at the
municipal level in Wuxi (WRMC); (b) develop a Municipal Hazardous Materials Emergency
Response Center (HMERC) in Wuxi; and (c) develop a comprehensive strategy for the
development of a least-cost approach to hazardous materials management at the provincial and
municipal levels in Jiangsu. The priority components that were identified In the JGF-financed
study and included in this projecL are summarized below.
Jiangsu Solid and Hazardous Waste Management and Regitration Center (JMRC)
10.          JMRC and the related municipal/county systems would be implemented in three
phases:
3     Phase 1: Establishment of a provincial level center together with one municipal
level center in Wuxi;
e     Phase 2: Establishment of centers in the remaining three major cities/counties
along the Grand Canal in Southern Jiangsu; and
*     Phase 3: Extend coverage to the balance of Jiangsu.
11.          Initially, the JMRC will be set up as an integral part of the JEPB and the Wuxi
EPB. After mufficient operational experience is gained, Phases 2 and 3 will be implemented and
JMRC and the associated city and county level organizations can be expanded into an
autonomous organization. The development of special hazardous waste management unit within
JEPB and the Wuxi EPB will serve as a focal point for developing and implementing hazardous
waste controls and serve as a center for expertise and training to raise the awareness of
hazardous waste issues in other municipal and county EPBs throughout the province, and also
in the relevant Industial Bureaus of provincial, municipal and county level.
12.         In the initdal phase, the new units proposed within JEPB and WEPB will
represent a relatively small increase in staff complement and budget of those organizations. In
the longer term, development of either a province-wide network of hazardous waste management
centers, or of a free standing, filly operational, round-the-clock emergency response center to
pwvide practical assistance in the event of an emergency sihuaion, will require additional
funding. The decision to prceed beyond the first phase will depend on progress made in Phase



- 122 -                          AN        9X 2
1 and fimdlng avamilabity. Phase I would comprise the foWlowing components which would be
Wuorted under tis project:
(a)   Jagu (and Wuxi) solid and hazardous waste management and registration
center (MRC and WMRC);
(b)   Wuxi hardos matal emergency respone cen  (HMEC); and
(c)    Wuxi Hazardous Materials Ste   and Tansport Project.
13.          The role of JMC would be to develop the framework for regulation and control
of hardous wastes in Jiangsu and to provide traing and supportng advice both to industry
and to staff in Enviroment Protection and Industry Bureaus. The main activities include the
following:
*     Support JEPB in the developm   of detailed hazardous waste management
*     Car  out surveys to gather infmation on industries (production, materials
usage, waste discharges, etc.).
*      ZDevelop and implement training program for EPB, Industry Bureau and industry
staff.
*     Develop and Implement an advisory service to industry.
*     Implement, monitor and enforce haardous wse reguatons, as they are
gradually introduced.
*     Develop a haxrdous wae  management plan, indluding the provision tratment
and disposal facilities.
14.          The provinca level center wil take the lead in terms of developing regulations,
tainng prog   and hazardous wast management plans. Data collection, implemention of
the taining program, provision of the advisory service to   ustry and monitoring and
enforcent of regul     would be catried out both by the Wuxi and the provinial center.
As the hIitial staff numbers will be relatively small, JMRC woud target first the medium and
lae scale  Windustes and those smaller industies In sectors which are expected to be major
producers of hazardous wastes. Such sect  woultd include chemicals, electroplating, paper pulp
and tann.
1S.          An outine of the phased work progra, including technical assistance and
trining, is as follows:
Frst Year: Set up the system, including initiation of data collection,
staffing and trning;
Second Year: Establish regaons and classification of hazardous mmat s
and hazardous wastes, and complete data collection and data management system;



- 123 -                          ANNEX9
Third Year: Implement fill monitodng and enforcement system; and
Fourth Year: Establish atomous enterprise to implement hazadous waste
tre. Jt and disposal systems and waste minimization programs.
16.          The program would be developed under the leadership of JEPB along with
particlpation of WEPB. During the early years of the progrm, staffing will be kept to a
minimm to achieve phased implementation. 'Me JMRC will be organzed and managed within
the exising provincial and city EPB management struct    to better coordinate information
flow, work programs and reduce cost. The computer system is sized to handle both hazardous
maters and haadous wastes data requirements.  In the eady phase, industri  data
management will also be included sinCe atis will be collected, moniored and managed in a
coordiat  way. Specia purpose vehicles would be procured for data collection, field testing
and monioring. In addition, the program would include both foreign and local training.
Technical assisnce pvisions will also be included for interaional colants, prefrably
from an experienced EPA, to assist JEPB to advise and review systems design to eue  hat
Implementation goals are met. The budget includes provision for such consulancy for a
minimum of 12 months over the 4 year Phase 1 implementationperiod. The terms of reference
for TA are shown In Annex 11.
Haardou Maals Emergency Response Center
17.          The Hazardous Maerials and Emergency Response Center (HMERC) in Wuxi
would be concerned primarily with providing training and guidance to industry on accident
prevention and emegenc response preparedness, ad with providing an emergency response
capability for aU hazardous material incidents occurring in the city and counties of Wuxi.
Duing Phase 1, an HMERC will be developed in Wuxi, to serve as a model for other cities and
pvinces. It will operate during normal office hours and wil focus in the early stages on the
following activities:
*             nCoordiatIon and collection of data on all hazardous merials (transported,
used, processed, stored or manufaured), and  assm       of the present
capabilities in accident prevention, safety and emergency in Wuxi's response.
*     Prvtide information, guidance and training on accident prevenon and safety to
the idustries and factories Involved with the hading of hazadou materials, to
emergency response personnel and to relevant agencies.
*     Develop codes of practice, standrds and gudmelines for the transport, storage,
handling and use of hazardous chemicals, including safety and accident
prevention and emergency response capabilities, in conjunction with the JEPB.
*     Coordinate the various agencies involved in emergency management related to
haardous materias in Wuxi.
18.          When the HMERC is filly operational, it wil provide industries and other
agencies wih iformation on emergency response and to incidents or accidents occuing during
normal office hours. The center will also ffcilitate the preparation of emergency response and
management plans (on-site and off-site) for the city of Wuxi. Once these are formulated, the



- 124 -
HMERC, In conjunction with other relevant agencies, will assist In organizing mock exercises
to test the plans.
19.         In the longer term, the pilot phase will be expanded into a fully functional
HMERC. Such a facility would serve as a focal point for receiving information during
emergencies and for coordinatng response activities by directing appropriate agencies at the
incident site. To fulfil such a role, the center would need to operate on a 24 hour day, 365 day
a year basis, and to be equipped, staffed and trained to a very high level. During Phase 1, the
HMERC will be located in one of the Wuxi EPB premises, and work closely with JMRC and
WMRC. The center will be provided with sufficient facilities to set up the initial response
capability.
20.         In addition, the proposed project component would include support for equipment
and training to the Wuxi fire department to expand its fire fighting capability and to extend its
capabilities into handling hazardous material accidents; and to Wuxi's Hospital No. 3 to Improve
Its capability to treat victims of hazardous material accidents. A staff of 4 at HIMERC will
coordinate the activities at the site of the accident and develop an effective training and response.
21.         In the longer term, the function and role of the HMERC and JMRC will be quite
different. However, during Phase 1, the HMERC will focus on information collecton and on
promoting accident prevention and safety through an industry visiting program, JMRC center
wi focus on data collection and industry visits. Thus, the decision to operate the two centers
as parallel and closely linked units within EPB, will facilitate the promotion and the concept of
intrated hazrdous materials management and emergency response and will also enable a
combined survey of hazardous materials and hazardous waste information to be undertaken and
utlized. The TOR for the technical assistance required for the implementation of this component
i given in Annex 11.
Wui Hazardous Materia  Storage and Transportation Component
22.          Wuxi Is a major consumer and transshipment point for hazardous materials. The
present facilities, located within the city freight yard are inadequate and do not meet current
environmental and safety standards. Ihe Railway authorities have notified the city that all
hazardous materias should be loaded/unloaded/stored in a dedicated facility, away from
population areas and should include proper safety provisions. This project component would
include the construction of such a dedicated facility in the south of the city. 'Te facility will be
built on an area of 7.3 hectares and includes a 1.5 kIn railway line plus upgrading of nearby
river port fiities to handle the hazardous mateials in special equipment. Ihe site will include
specially designed storage and loading facilities to separate and isolate the several materials to
be handled, including acids, alcohols, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and other organic materials.
Adequate provisions for fire safety, handling and containing spills as well as worker health and
safety would be provided under the project.
23.          The facility will de designed to handle 220,000 tpy of hazardous materials,
including 10,000 tpy LPG. The proposed facilities would include:
(a)    dedicated railway line with 220,000 tpy capacity, including loading platform
piping, tank wagon and pumping system;



- 125 -                          ANN13X9
(b)   river port loading facility for 50,000 tpy capacity;
(c)   tank farm for acids and organic chemicals;
(d)   LPG storage;
(e)   utilitles including power water, steam, machine shop; and
(M    fire safety Including 2 fire trucks (foam and water), fire stadon and related
facilities.
24.          Training and safety are key enviuomnental requirements of the project. Trining
in handling hazardous materis will be handled by Wuxi Petrochemical Corporation for all of
the organic materials and by Wuxi LPG Company for LPG. Training in fire safety will be
coordinated with the local fire department and the fire protection system will be supplemented
by the hazrdousm materials emergency response component of the project being carried out by
the Wuxi Fire Department and the No. 3 Hospital. Wuxi EPB will ensure that tan    includes
aU required safety and health provisions.
25.          Environment Assessment. The proposed site for this new facility is located on
rura land approximately 8 km form the southern part of the city. It is situated near the Nanjing-
anghai Railroad and Yangwanlibin, a tribuary of the Grand Cana, a convenient location for
transportatin  In the absence of toxiclhazardous waste management regulations in China,
preventive and pollution control as well as waste disposal measures have been incorporated into
the design of the project following the envionmental regulations for industrial safety and
pollution control in the chemical sector.
26.          The proposed project component would include an i-plant monitoring program
and self-reportg and spot checks. An environmental education program wil be taught in the
nearby school and the local communiy would be informed of and included in the activities to
help thembetter understand theproposed project. The EA report has beea cleared by theWuxi
EPB.



- 126-                             WNNEC 10
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT AND
REGISTRATION CENTER
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Inrduction
1.           lhe technical assistance for implementon of the hazardous waste management
and registration centers In Jiangsu (JMRC) and Wu  (WMC) comprises two main categories
of tak:
(a)    Advisory role, where a consultant assists JMRC and WMRC managemet to
maintain progress and to balance priorities through the critical Phase I years of
JMRC/WMRC development; and
(b)    Specific tecal assistance assignments, where the same consultant assists
JMRC in completion of the tasks.
Advisory Role
2.           A Hazardous Waste Management and Registration Center in Jianu Ptovince
wil be developed to serve as a model to other provinces in China and to other developing
countries. The rapid development of such a center is an ambitious project, requiing
simultaneus development in a number of parallel and related activies. To assist the Jiangsu
Envronmenta  Protection Bureau and the Wuxi Environmental Protection Bureau in
implementing Phase I of the JMRC development over a four year period, it is proposed to retain
an international consultamt in an advisory role to assist the JMRC management during this critical
phase in the development of the center. The tasks win be:
(a)    To carry out regular visits to review progress and advise on current priorities,
(b)    To assist in the development and review of detailed work plans for the
development of the centers;
(c)    To ensure that the training program is designed to meet the detailed needs of the
JMRC;
(d)    To ensure that effecive tecbhical assistance is obtained for other aspects of the
work; and



- 127 -                         AN=  10
(e)    To provide regular progress repois to JEPB and the Bank, advising of any
modificatons to priorities or work programs required to maintain sadsfactory
development of JMC.
3.           The Consultats undertaing tis assignment should develop a relationship of
mut  trust and respect with lEPB, JMC and the Wuxi EPB. The role is esentaly one of
advice and guidance, rather than direction. By bringing in an International perspective and
eperience of hazadous waste manement in other countries, the consultants will be able to
provide a more saegic view of JMRC development than tha of local management who will
necesa ly be more focused on day-togday problems. The consulta undertking this assignmen
wil requir experience in hazardous wase management and control and in practical hazardous
waste management (both in Industy and in central facilities). t is critical ta Xt experience
should etend to hazardous waste manement in developing countries and in China in paricular.
4.           It is envisaged that the consutants will undertake two visits per year to Jiangsu,
averagig 1.5 person months per year. A further 0.5 person months per year has been allowed
for support from the *home office.
A. SMBc  TBaNCAL ASSMANCE ASSIGNMEN
Follow-Up Waste Surve
5.           Prior to the setup of the JMRC, an initial hazardous waste survey will have been
caried out In Wuxi. This will be based largely on questios, with limited factory visits
used to validate the data. In the initial stage of JMRC development, considerable priority will
be given to the intoduction of a coordinated industrial visiting program. Ite aims include:
(a)    Raising awareness of hazardous wastes and materials within industry;
(b)   Gathering nformation on the nature, quantity and origin of wastes and
haardous materials storage, bandling and use; and present practices for storage,
recycling, treatment and disposal;
(c)   Facilitating compliamce witi new reguaions, and laying the foundation for
fuire inspection and enforcement activities; and
(d)   Providg advice and disseminating information on best practice.
6.           It is andcipated that this viSiting program wil be undertaken by JMRC/EPB
staf working with countepart staff from the appropriate Industry Bureaus. In order to provide
maximum benefit firm the industry visiting program, limited technical assistance is proposed.
This wil take the form of two visits by a two person team, for three weeks each, separated by
about four to six months. The technical assistance will focus on:
(a)    Advice on selecton and prioritzation of industries for viSiting;
(b)   Provision of workshops for training visifing teams;
(c)    On-the-job training through participation in early visits;



- 128 -                           N        1
(d)    Further workshops and training following feedback from the initial experience
of the visiftg teams over the first few months; and
(e)    Advice and assistance with presentation and interpretation of the results of the
visiting program.
7.           Given the critical nature of this technical assistance to the development of the
center, this role is an essential part of the initial scope of work of the consultants.
Assm ent of Existi  FacilUties
8.           An assessment of existing hazardous waste management practices Is an impornt
aspect of the industrial visiting program, forming an important component of the development
of adequate long-term facilities. It is considered that few existing practices will meet long-term
environmetal standards, but equally it is not possible to terminate all existing practices
simultaneously, and the development of adequate interim arrangements must build on a practical
assessment of current practiCe,.
9.           It is thus important that the interview staff take the opportunity of industrial visits
to inspect the fctory premises and to identify and observe present and past disposal practices.
In particular, if any existing or past practices are causing obvious environmental damage, then
this is to be noted and reported.
10.          Tle assessment of existing practices will be particularly difficult for JMRC staff
to undertake with only limited prior training. Such training should be included under the topic
follow-up survey noted above, but this needs to be supplemented by specific technical assistance
comprising a 3 week mission by two people, focusing on visiting and assessing existing facilities
which have been identified by the JMRC staff during the visit program.
11.          The aims of this technical assistance will include:
(a)    Providing on the job training for the local staff in the assessment of existing
treatment and disposal practices;
(b)    Providing recommendations for upgrading existing practices, for example
reutilizaton of reclamation technologies or treatment facilities (such as some
incineration facilities), the use of which could be acceptable in the short term
with limited modifications; and
(c)   Identify examples of current practices which should be stopped immediately.
12.          Although the systematic identificat'n and remediation of sites contaminated from
past disposal of hardous waste is not considerec, to be a priority for Phase I implementation
of the JMRC, it is nevert*eless essential that the opportunity given by industry visits and by this
limited technical assistance is taken to identify sites for any future program. In particular, an
effort should be made to identify any gross contamination which is causing an immediate public
health or environenal risk which requires Immediate action.



-129 -                           ANNEX 10
13.          Given the limited Inputs for this task, and the Importac of developing a close
worldng relationship with local agencies, it Is recommended that this task is intgraed with the
consultant's overall task.
Developing Ongoing TrainIng Program
14.          As part of the JMRC development, a two stage approati to training is
recommended:
(a)    Senior staff in JMRC/WMRC should be trained (training the trainers);
(b)   These staff should then be used to train other staff, both in the JMRC, other
units within the EPB, industry bureaus and industry.
15.          This ongoing training program will raise awareness of hazardous waste issues
among the wide range of staff with related responsibilities. The ongoing traini  program should
include the following steps:
(a)    Assess training needs;
(b)   Develop a modular training program;
(c)   Implement trial training courses;
(d)    Finalize the training program; and
(e)   Implement regular traing courses.
16.          A series of modular training courses are envisaged, to include:
(a)    An introduction to hazardous materials and hazardous wastes;
(b)    Hazardous waste avoidance, reduction, recycling and reuse;
(c)    Hazardous waste treatment and disposal;
(d)   Industry sector specific courses.
17.          Ihe technical assistance should take the form of three short visits to Jiangsu by
one person, peraps six to nine months apart, with limited support in between from the home
office. The role is to provide assistance in developing the program and specific training courses.
18.          This task requires specific experience of training hazardous waste management
professionals. In addition to providing hands-on expertise in the development of and runing
training programs, it is important ta access is provided to relevant training materis from
developed and other developing counrAies for adaptation to local conditions and tr,nslon Into
Chinese.



- 130-                          ANNEX 10
Support To JMRC on Planning and Failty Development
19.          A full master planninglfeasibity study is the responsibility of NMRC.
However, a substantial input by consultants, to assist JMRC is necessary. The primary role of
the consultans will be to provide advice, guidance, tecial informaion and experience of
planning, developing and operadtg facilities in other countries to the Jipsu working group.
The consultants undertaking this role require hands on expeience of the development and
operation of hazardous waste treament facilities in developed cntries, together with experience
of developing initial facilities in developig countries. Previous expeience in China would be
an advantage.
B. DEVzfiLOr or WAS= MANAGEMENT hFORMnoN SYSTM
20.          A major component in the development of the JMRC is the preparation of a
major waste management information system (WMIS). lbis wi  initially be a network micro
computer system, but it will be expanded, probably during stages 3 and 4 of Phase I of the
development of the cente, to a mini computer based system. The experise required for
programming the min computer system is (using Oracle software) considerable, although it is
understood that considerable experience is avaiable in China. It is thus not possible at this stage
to specify the scope of technical assistance which may be required: instead a lump sum has been
allowed to cover technical assistance and overseas training of local staff. If this training could
be provided on other facilities within China then this training component could be removed and
the overall sum reduce considerably.
21.          Ihe consultants role for this technical assistance woud be:
(a)    To provide initial advice in year 1 on the development of the microcomputer
WMIS, to ensure both full utilization of the capabilities of the system and future
compatibility with the mini computer system;
(b)   Development of applications software for the minicomputer system; and
(c)    Training of local programing staff.
22.          It is essential that the consultants undertaking this task should be familiar with
the requirement of waste management information systems. The required qualifications for the
consultants are:
(a)    Successful completion of projects of simflar scope and complexity;
(b)   Full knowledge of hazardous wa     regulatory control systems and
classifcationlcharactation methods; and
(c)    Experience of development of computeized syrems for waste management.



-131-                            ANLM1
WUXI HAZARDOUS MATERIAL EMERGENCY
RESPONSE CENTER
TERMS OF REFERENCE FYOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. OliJcnvEs
1.           The proposed hazardous material emergency response cente (HMERC) in Wuxi
reqrs  succesflly achieving a number of expertise intensive steps over a period of about four
years. While the project will provide the necessary support software and hardware for the Wuxi
suthorities to develop the HMERC, the acual implen   would call for periodic technical
support though specialist consultant visits during HMERC's establishment.
B. CONMS OF TEC1NICAL ASSISTANCE
2.           The tecal assistae  will consist of:
(a)    Assessing progress made by Wuxi authorities in implementhng the various steps
of the H MRC.
(b)    Providing technical support/guidance to HMERC staff to resolve problems, if
any, in Implemenation.
(c)    Provide advice/guidance in preparing training and emergency response
documents.
(d)    Assist HMERC and other agencies in performing sample safety audits, data
collection and other processes Involved in HMBRC Implementaton. This will
transfer hands-on capabilities to the HMERC and other response staff.
(e)    Assist the HMERC staff in the effective use of the emergency response software.
Ts could include development of scenarios for accidents.
(M)    Assist HMBRC in preparing off-site emergency management plans to lead them
to setting up the formal HMERC.
3.           The consultant provng technical assistance will have to effectivy transfer
technology on an ongoing basis to the Wuxi HMERC and associated agencies. Ihey will,
eore, have to be experienced in safety management and emergency response with the
f glowing attrib .



-132 -                          ANNEX 10
(a)    Experience of working in developing countries with reference to safety and
emergency response Involving hazardous materials.
(b)    Understanding of working in China, with knowledge of the Chinese system of
management.
(c)    Detailed knowledge of fire and accident prevention and response systems and to
be able to guide and train the Wuxi personnel.
(d)    Sufficient working knowledge of emergency response planning and other related
processes to be able to transfer know-how. 'his would include the use of the
various software for emergency response functions being provided.
C. TiwNG
4.           Technical assistance proposed is tailored to match the step-wise implementation
of the HMERC. Ihe following schedule is proposed:
Year                    No. of visits              Duration of each
visit (week)
1                        2                            3
2                        1                            3
3                        1                            2
4                        1                            2



-133 -                             ANNEX ll
MONITORING EQUIPMENT
In order for the EPBs to efficiendy carry out their mandate of monitoring and
enforcement, it is necessary for the EPBs of Wuxi County and Zhenjiang city to acquire several
pieces of state-of-the-art laboratory equipment. New equipment Is needed because it is far more
sensitive than existing units which are generally 10 years old and for which often spare parts are
no longer available. The higher sensitivity and reliability are required becase more samples
will be analyzed for new compounds and far more often. In addition, thresholds of sensitivity
must be lower to test for toxics and heavy metals. The equipment provided under the project
is standard state-of-the-art found in most laboratories and monitoring facilities in developed
countries.
Table 1: Wvx' COuNTY EPB
Item                         Quantity Unit  Rate             Amount (1.000)
('OOO)  Local    Forelan    Total
CY)  Cs)  (Y)  C$)  (9)  ($)
1. Gas Chromatograph for
organic substance analysis      2     each   80   160 28.0    -   - 160 28.0
2. Electronic balance for
TSP, 8S, dust analysts          2     each   60    60  2.1    -   -  12  2.1
3. UV-Wpectrophotomter
for oIl analysis                1     each   30    30  5.3    -   -  30  5.3
4. Ion-Chromatograph
for cation analysis             1     set    25    25  4.4    -   -  25  5.5
Total                                           227 39.8    .   - 227 39.8



Table 2: ZHDKIANG ENVMONNENTAL MOWWuNG OrATON
item                                                    Quantity    Unit       Rlate                 Amount (1.000_
($8000)       tnal          Fo           _  Tois
(Y)    (8)    MY)    (8)    (l)      (8)
ZSumJisw Snuiro _aea sodrtori  Ststion
1.  Ioe-ehrcmatography                                         I        each        168       -        -    168     30    168      30
Mazi Ravroental  Meitoring Station
2.   tc    aborptioepectAete I                                         each        616       -        -    616    110    616    110
gutmes Eironnena  Monitoring Statoen
3.  Oasmase  pectrpotmer                                       1        each        448       -        -    448     60    448      s0
Jiangau Saviro  eae l Kootorni g Stttion
4.  Io-chrematograpby.                                         1        eacs                                318           318      60
S.  OC/FTIR  pectrophotoeer                                    1        each                                684    120    684    120
6.  Electronic dicroscope                                      1        each                                 46      8     46       a
7. Nobile monitoring laboratory
(a) Ionitoriug truck                                       1        each          -       -       -    114      20    114     20
(b) Portable 8a8 chrmatorgraphy                            1        each          -       -       -    114      20    114     20
(c) Portable water analyi.r                                1        each          -       -       -     17.7    3.1   17.7    3.1
(d) Spectrophotometer                                      1        each          -       -       -      14.3    2.5   14.3    2.5
(e) Portable gas alarnmdetector                            2        each          -       -       -      12.0    2.1   12.0   v.1
(f) Portable dissolved oxygen meter                        2        each          -       -       -      12.5    2.2   12.5    2.2
S.  lCD, rapid measurement moeter                              2        each                                 11.4    2      11.4    2
9. Radioactivity measurement
(a) Alpha  pectrometer                                     1        each          -       -       -    164      28.75 164     28.75
(b) Vacuum pump                                            1        each          -       _       _      8.6    1.5    8.6    1.5
(c) Niabelpower                                            1        each          -       -       -      9.0    1.58   9.0    1.58
(d) Alpha work software                                    1        each          -       -       -      18.2    3.2    3.2    3.2
(e) Liqud scintillation anwalyzer                          1        each          -       -       -    307      53.8  307     53.8
Total                                                                                              L328    54U.73.128    548.7
I



-135                                     12
TRAINING PROGRA
Flnandal/AccsuntlIg Tining In Wui
Costs and Dtilan the variou traig amponents:
Summary Table
EPB Taining Program
Zheujiang Muncia EPB
ChangZO  Muicipa EPB
Wuxi Municipal EPB
Suzhou Muniipal IEPB
Wui County EPB
Jianga Provincia EPE
Urb   Wuwwater Management Training Program
ghano
wuxi
Zheniang
Hazadou Wast Management Thiring Progm
JligWuxi Solid & H        saadou Waste Management &
_ei o Ce0ter
Wwi Hazado  Materials Emerec Reonme Syem
Wui lazardous Mateas Storago and Transport Company
FiacW  Age  Tning Program
CIB Training
Jiangsu Provii EPB
Zhel3iang Muicipal EPB



- 136 -                         ANNEX 12
FlnandalAccounting Training Program In Wwd
1.           Background.  The Municipal Finance Bureau in Wuxi Is responsible for
overseeing the accounting reform and training efforts of the financial/accounting staff of
municipal agencies. For this purpose, a financial/accounting training center was esublished in
Wuxi In 1986. In addition, the Shanghai Finance and Economic Institute and Zhonghua
Accountg Correspondent School have each established a traiing center in Wuxi. In addition,
the Municipal Finance Bureau organizes, from time to time, training seminars for chief
accountants of large and medium enterprises.
2.           Proposed Training Program. Under the Southern Jiangsu Environmentl
Protection Project, financial/accounting training would be provided to the staff of the sewerage
company and to selected staff in the Project Management Office. The plan for accounting
reform training is as follows:
(a)    Prior to end-1992, training in the latest uniform  accounting principles
promulgated by MOF;
@b) Prior to end-1992, preparation of model financial reports;
(c)   In 1993/94, short seminars in Wuxi conducted by intrnational consultants; and
(d)   In 1993/94, overseas training to familiarize selected staff in international
acounting principles and practices.
Coff ESfMTxrE
Cost estimate
($ equivalent)
1. General accounting principles                                      1,600
2. Preparation of financial reports                                   3,500
3. International consultants to
conduct training seminars in
China and provide TA in
sewerage tariff study                                            90,000
4. Overseas training                                                 42,000
To1al                                                         17 000
of which: Local costs                                         30,600
Foreign costs                                        132,000



ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING ]PROGRAM
Table 1: SumKMARY o Cosr FsmuTES
('0O)
Description of training                             Local                Poreign                Total
(Y)       ($)       (Y)          ($)      (Y)           C)
EPB TraininA Proaram                           8,099   1,385.9     2,247        394.0   10,346      1,719.9
Zhenjiang Municipal EPB                    1,000     175.3         -          -      1,000        175.3
Changzhou Municipal EPB                    1,600     280.7       114         20.0    1,714        300.7
Wuxi Municipal EPB                         1,S00     228.0         -          -      1,500        228.0
Sushou Municipal EPB                       1,000     175.4         -          -      1,000        175.4
Wui County Municipal EPB                     385      67.5         -          -        385         67.5
Jiangsu Provincial EPB                    2,614      459.0     2,133        374.0    4,747         83.3
Urban Wastewater TraininAt Proaram             6,718   1,070.3     4,501        813.5   11,219      1,883.8
Changzhou Urban Wastewater Project        2,707      475.0       510        100.0    3,277       575.0
Wuxi Urban Wastewater Project              1,784     313.1     1,086        200.0    2,807        513.1
Zhenjiang Urban Wastewater Project         1,952     232.2       590        103.5    2,542       335.7
Financial Training (3 cities)               275       50.0     2,255        410.0    2,530       460.0
Hazardous Waste Trainin_  Proaram                292      52.2     3,606.4      578.8    3,898.4      631.0
JMRC/WMRC                                     97      18.0     1,089.0      198.0    1,186.0     216.0
Wuxi Hazardous Materials Emergency             -       -       1,434.4      260.8    1,434.4      260.8
Wuxi Harardous Material
Storage & Transport.                      195       34.2     1,083.0      120.0    1,278.0     260.8
Financial Intermediary Training ProAram
CIB Training                               1,000     175.3       547.2       96.0    1,547.2     271.3
TraininR Equipment                             1,557     283.0     1,300.0      234.0    2,857.0      517.0
Total                                   17.666   2,966.70   12,201.6   2.116.3   29.867.6   5.083.0



BP TRADNG PROGRAM
Table ' EMIM&l Coer (W TEADE    MR 7lIMU1&NG sM,nfAL               AL
PaoluI!ox BRNUM STAFF
Descuiption of training                                   qmantity           Rate                    Abmte (0gOg
Okaeei)    Il.OOO/lck)          1oa          Porelam        Totd
(Y)    ($)    ()   (8)   ()        (0)
1. Trainig of higher-level profssionals in
ev_vntena'stratse andpla lOo                             100            1.00              17.5      -          100   17.S
2. Tradnig of bihe-level prof.a.ionals
workig on developing polution control
progras, *och as polluton discharge perits               200            0.75        1S0   26.3      -    _   150   26.3
S. Traiiug of pung profeionals working on
enforcement of enviroimental regulatios                  200            1.00        100   17.5      -          -    100   1.5
4. TraDIng for all lvels of stff on
camputr ua                                               300            0.83        250   43.9                 250   43.9
S. Training of technica-ns workclg on
saplng sad laboratory aalyttel ortk                      300            0.67        200   35.1      .    -   200   35.1
6. Training of young prof.sionals working
on polluton control technologg, modeling
*ad computer-sided design                                100            1.00        100   17.5      -    .   100   17.5
7. rainalug of young and bhghet-level
professionala on enviro_e mal regulatIonS
such a 1*J E     fees, peRmit sys.e., etc.               300            0.33        100   17.5      .    -   100   17.5
zml   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ifLM lIUA    :    IaQ  UID



EP TRAINGPROGRAM
Table 3: lKMATA& COwr OW TAINIG MR CEAumoil WMuICAL UNVIUIIEITAL
fRTOlcuoN DURLAD STAN
Description of training                                      Quantity           Rate                     Amount t'0001
(staff-weeks)    (1000Oheek)        Local        Foreign        Total
(Y)     ($)    CY)   ($)   (TY)    (W
1. Training of higher-level professionals In
envlronmental strategy and planning.                        100            0.50        200   35.1       -     -    200    35.1
2. Training of higher-level professionals
working on developing pollution control programs,
such as pollution discharge permits                         200            1.00        200    35.1      -     -    200    35.1
3. TrainIng of young professionals working
on enforcement of envirowaental regulations                 300            0.67        200    35.1      -     -    200    35.1
4. Training for all levels of staff on computer use             300            1.00        300    52.6      -     -   300    52.6
5. Trainin of teebhnioans working on sampling and
laboratory analytical work                                  300            1.00        300    52.6      -     -   300    52.6
6. Training of young professionals workifng on
pollution control technology, modeling a"d
computer-aided design                                       100            2.00        200    17.5    114    20    314   37.5
7. Training of young and higher-level
professionals on environmental regulations
such as E19, fees, permit systems. etc.                    300             0.67        200    35.1      -     -    200   35.1
Total                                                                           1 600   280.7    114    n I   ZR 1    300.t



EPB TRAIIG PROGRAM
Table 4: ESImAi  Cosr or T8NG Fa Wuu MUNaCiAL ENYIoN4ITAL
PRolaUON DUREAU SrAI1
DescriptSon of training                                      quantity           Rate                     Amount ('000)
(staff-weeks.)    (l000/veek)       Local        Foreisn        Total
(Y)    (5)    (Y)   (       () CY)  CS)
1. Training of higher-level profesionals in
.nviron Iental strategy and pltanning                       100            1.00        100    17.5      .     ^    100    17.5
2.  Training of higher-level professionals working
on developing pollution control progrsu.,
such as pollution discharge peraits                         200            0.75        150    26.3      -     -    150    26.3
3.  Training of young professionals working on
enforcement of environsental regulations                    250            0.80        200    35.1      -     -    200    35.1
4.  Training for all levels of staff on computer use            300            0.67        200    35.1      -     -   200    35.1
5.  Training of technicians working on sampling and
laboratory saalytiel work                                   300            1.00        300    52.6      -     -   300    52.6
6. Training of young prof.eselols wrork g on
pollution control technologg, modeling and
computer-aided design                                       100            2.00        200    35.1      -     -   200    35.1
7. Training of young and bigher-level professionals
on environmental regulations such as ZIA, fees,
permit systems, etc.                                        300            0.50        150    26.3      -     -    150    26.3
Total                                                                           1.500     228               1.500     228



EPB TRAING PROGRAM
Table S:  IrIMsATED Cogr OF TRAMIG FOR SUzIOU MUNIPAL ENVIONMWrAL
PROrWcoN BUREAU STAFF
Description of training                                       Quantity            Rate                     Amount t '000)
(staff-weeks)    (1,OOOweek)        Local  _      orstsn         Total
Y)      ($      T)   (S)    (Y)      ($)
1.  Training of higher-level professionals In
environmntal strategy, action plans and .lanning             110              1.8        200    35.1       -     -    200    35.1
2. Training of higher-level professionals in
euviro">ental regulations and standards                      S00              0.2        100    17.5       -     -    100    17.5
3.  Training for all levels of staff on computer use             200              1.0         200    35.1      -     -    200    35.1
4. Training of technlcians working on sampling and
laboratory analysis                                          400              0.5        200    35.1       -     -    200    35.1
4h
5.  Training of young and higher-level professionals
on developitg pollution control programs                     200              0.5        100    17.5       -     _    100    17.5
6. Training on town and rural enterprises'
environmental managemnt for municipal and
county EPB staff                                             300              0.7        200    35.1       -     -    200    35.1
Total                                                                             1.000   175.4                1.000   175.4



EFP TRAINIG PROGRAM
Table 6: KWUMIUD Coff OF ThANN  MR WUJI CouIT! EVWAAL
Description of training                                   quantity           Rate AJmoun to00)
(staff-veeks)   (1loooIweek)      IA ....   .orina.           Totalr
(Y)    ($)
1. Tralning of Cout leaders and l*i senior
_anageent In TM  envirovnntal protection
PliOC  an  strategy                                       120           0.83         o     17.5                t -   100   17.5
2. TrsInig of senior professional staff on
euvirom.ntnl policy and regulations                       60            0.8S         51    8.9      -    -    St    8.9
3. TraIn_ng of young professionals and
Tlm inspectors In onvirooantal regulations,
stanards and enforcemt requiremet.                       250            0.80        200   35.1      -    -   200   35.1
4. TrainIn  of technlcs workig on laboratory
chemical anlysis and data  anagement                      40            0.85         34    6.0      -    -    34    6.0
Total                                                                          "                          385   67.5
I



Table 7:  1SIVI Cosr oW Th*INGM M  JNw  PRY  DNMT
FaolCUcOt 313w STnm La
Deacriptien of traWaq                                     Q titYte
{ffs)   (lOOOhee*)      (Y)  (8)    (Y∞)(8)    ()          (8)
1. Tra2ina1  of blibr-level profes.ie.l  In
eavirimItal etrategy and plannin                         360            0.53        189   33.2      -    -   189   33.2
2. Tradu of  ir-l         l pr    workig
an levopb8" poleti oneatrol pro?s*, eec
as pollutlon control p,mit.                              360            053         169   33.2            -    189   334.
3. T_alubq of youm  professionals workng on
enforcement of ewm-I  ta gutioe                          240            0.53        126   22.1      -    -   126   22.1
4. Trainab  for allael of stff on coputerse                  600            0.70        420   73*7            -   420   73.7
S. Trainin  of tebhniian wo*kU* oe ssmplig and
laboratory aalytiCal wor                                 100            0.74         74   13.0      -    -    74   13.0
6. Ttatmin  of       ptofeaion.l working on                                             g
poulit  co=ntroe techbnlog, uosd ag and
ccmpster-aed deIg                                        300            0.70        210   36.8      -    -   210   36.5
7. Trning of y-lng and btber-level professionals
on envS.re_tal regulation  seb as ZIA, feeo,
pent estem, etc.                                         420            0.53        221   38.8      -    -   221   38.8
8. Trainin  of young ad blghr-level professionalse L
the egt e roetel enforcm et  asures                      540            0.53        284   49.8      -    -   284   69.8
9.      r     _atal educatio  for high school teachers an
students to     l     eavtroMate prote¢tto
kwledge      ecolg                                       100            0.95    ff         16.7     -    -    95   16.7
10. Tralinug for bigh-level staff and senlor mesagment
In env1rometal planning and deciaion-meking and
approachs to emirouental management reform              200               -       251   44.2       .    -   252   44.2
11. SaglIob traintng                                         720                       504   86.4                  S -   504   88.4
12. Trainig materials                                                          -        5O    8.8       -    -    SO    8.8
Subtotal (Domestic Training)                                                 2,614  459.0               2.614  459.0



Tabe?: E      DIIMA    CogT OF TcRaG FOR IINGSU PROVINCE  IRVMONMTAL
PiOUCUo BV3U          F rAW ia (coned)
Descriptio  of training                                      Quantity           Rate                    Amount V'000)
(staff-weeks)   (l,OOOheetk)       Loa           ForeXim        Tbt
13. Invting foreign experts to Jiangeu to give lectures
on basin managemnt, regonmanagement modeling and
environmental and economic plai                              60               -          -            980   172    980     172
14. InitiLng foreign experts to provide training on
pollutio management and control for hazardous wastes,
chemical Industry, pulp mills and fomentation industries  120                 -          -       -  1,300 220.0  1,300     228
15. Study tour for senior management on emiromental
management, legal frameorks, institutional arrangments,
engineering and nonengin_ring measures for poLEtion
control, urban pollution control facility construction,
maintenace and operations and regional environental
management                                                   12               -          -            580 1,026    580     102
16. Training in computer-aided design on town and village
enterprise pollution control plannlag, system optsination
and design.                                                  20               -          -       -   270    47    270       47
17. Training on environmental Information systems for
data mangement staff                                         24               -          -17                       170      30
18. Training on enwironmental moritoring and analysis for
emergency response work, such as plannng sampling points,
sampling methods and analytical techniques; pollution
source monitoring; rlver basin environmental quality
monitoring for provincial monitoring center staff            30               -          -       -   225    40    225       40
19. Training for teachers in foreign training matericals
and methods aud programmlng training                         24               -          -       -    190    33    190      33
subtotal                                                                 -      2,614   459.0  3,542   644  6,156   1,103
fa lbis proposed plan covers fte period of 1993-2000. A dedaid training progam should be developed for World Dank review each year.



B. URBAN WASTEWATER TRAINING PROGRAM
Table8: EbDMAlmu    Ds Corn oW TuING FOR CEuNGZHoU URBAN WAWKwATIU MNAGFMDST
Description of training                                       quantity             Rate                    Amount C'O000       _
(participants)         (Y'000)        Local        Foreiin         Total
(1)     ($)    (l)   4$)    (I)        )
1. Engineers and other spect. sts training in
state-of-the-art teebnology, computer applications
and water quality analysis--3 months' duration.               55               19      1,045   183.3       -     -  1,045   183.3
2 . Admlstrative staff trainlig at Chinese management
institutions--3 months' duration.                             20               19        380    66.7       -     -    380    66.7
3. Tecbnical labor training at local urban construction
tralning schools on OWH of wastewater treatment plants,
suwer systems, equipment OWM, etc.--3 months' duration.    200                  2        400    70.2       -     -    400    70.2
4. Construction supervisor training at Chlnese trainin
institutions on constsuction site supervision, quality
control, schedule programlang--2 months' duration.            12               26        312    54.8       -     -    312    54.8
5. High-level management staff overseas study tour to learn
about plant management and operations, water authority,
ZMaComont policy, fee collection, etc.--1 month, visitlng
UK, DI, Germany (1993)                                        12                -          -       -    570   100    570       100
Total                                                                                       4      570   100  3.277      575



Iable 9: EsMA1U CoSr oC ThAmWaG 3O WM  Ubu3M WArWnWAI MAMAODMT
Deecrption of trnins                                        Quanity             Rate                   jamo   I*0000
(pwople            (Y'OO)        --1 Z7                         _
trained)                       T)    ($)   -(K   (*)    ()        ($)
1.  angieers ad other speciallsto traiin  at Chinese
technical institftions on  tatae-of-the-art tchnoloy
compste appUcatione Ma  water qualty analys--
3 mouths                                                    45            10.0        450      79      -    -   450        7
2. Ahinistrative staff traing at Chinese m          e
training Institutions in mange_met of sr 
wastewater t_eatnt plets and computer appletions-
4 months                                                    20             t.0        140   24.6       -     -    140    24.6
3. TechnIcal labor training at local urban constructio
scboole on CSI of sewe sste, pimp statios anA
wast_ ater teatment plants--4 months                                       6.7        990   173.7      -     -   990   173.7
4. TrainIn8 of contract arrtanseme  and civil work
spervsion on dmesticjiternatil bidding procedue. 
contract aragment, construction sit* superision.
qulity control, shedule progromMISS-Contract
araunc   (a) 4 months; Constuctio  supevisi
(b) 2                                                    (a)12 t()27.0              (a)54    9.5        .   -  (8)54      9.5
(b)10        (b)1S.0    (b)150   26.3        -     - (b)150   26.3
5. egh-level - 1 1agment staff owere   study tour on
manaement of sever system, matavter treatment
pleas, water at ities policy ad ee collection--
21  ay., In Getany, US, Dena_rk, lon  Kong                  12            $8.3          -       *   570   100   570       100
6. loreigs etpest. iovite4 to Jia,nGe  to provi4e traintig
on mmnagement policy, quality control and fees--4 weeko      2            25.0          -       -   285   S0    285        S0
7. Joreiga experts lnviLted to Jiaegp to provide tralanng
on Imported bardware, operation and maintenance--3 weeks     2            10.0          -       -    114   20    114       20
8. Training equipment and overseas operators training            -               -          -       -   117    30    117       30
Xotal                                                                          IM   3         1.086   2QQ 2U7   S20O 1 l



URBAN WASTEWATER TRAING PROGRAM
TWOe *. KuiwAluT  Cost or TRAM= gm 7mww URBA WAIMWAIU MMWAEIT
lescription of traing                                        Quantit             Rate                    Amount tooo'0
(particpants)           X'000)      FI..relan                    Tot,l
C)      (-Y)   (1    ()    (K)    -($)
Dammeaefagj~
1. Specialist and support staff trgiuzn  in project
finnecial 8anasemat, World eank disbursment,
project p1saainn   and computer applUcatious--18 months      18               -      1,270   223.0     -      -  1,270   223.0
2. Ahdmistrative staff training o persornel,
organization, buman resource development, file
usnaguient and inforoation technology--S months               s               _        600   105.0     -      -   600   105.0
3. Teebical labor training on pumping stition operation
and gaintenace, water quality anlysts, pipe maintenace,
mechanical equipment 06K and pond 06n--43 months             63               _        630   111.0     -      -   630   111.0
4. Contract management ad engineeting supervision--
20,  '.hs                                                    20               -         22     3.9                  22     3.9
S. Training on operation of the wastevater system,
including srer systems, pumping stations and
water qualUty--20 months                                     20               -         24     4.2     -      -     24     4.2
ForeLgn frainl
6. ligher-level and project engineer study tours to
study plant _suagment at coqparable foreign
facilities--l onth                                           12               -          -       -  560   98.2   560    98.2
7. Training on Imported equipaent                                 _               _                       30    5.3     30     5.3
Total                                                                              iaAS 447.0   5    10.  3.136   550.5
-~



C. HAZARDOUS WASME TRAING PROGRAM
Tabe 11: JINGSUIWWtX  SomD AND HAzARDOW WAsmE MANACouIDT AND RWGmITuNu CEIWE TRAiNIMN
Item                                                         Quatity    Unit        Rate                        Amount ('000)
($'000)    Total              Local               ForelR
(Y)    (S)        T)       (S)        (Y)      (S)
1. Study tour for sentor management and
technical staff                                                                        445.5    81            -       -      445.S      81
2.  Trainug of key staff                                                                   495.0    90            -       -       495.0      90
3.  VW18 train4ng (one person/provlnclal center)
(foreign)                                                                             148.5    27             -       -      148.5      27
4.  TrainIng for lower level staff In Wuxi                                                  97.0    18         97.0      18           -       -
Total                                                                             97.0    18    1.089.0    198    1.186.0    216
Table 1   WUIIM HAZARDOUS MAmI ALSEMDERGENCY RESONsE SYSnTM TRAING
Item                                                         Quantity    Unit       Rate                       Amount t'000)
(8'000)    Local              Forelzn                Total
(T)    CS)       (T)       (S)        (Y)      ($)
1.  Study tour for seanor mnagement                                                                           550.0  100.0        550.0  100.0
2.  Specialized Phase I training for technical staff                                                          609.4  110.8        609.4  110.8
3.  Eospital study tour                                                                                       275.0   50.0        275.0   50.0
Total                                                                                              1434.4  260.8       1434.4  260.8
-                                                                                                                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



HiAZARDOUS WASIE TRAINiNG PROGRAM
Table 13: EwmA1m Cogr aF T            Fa  Wui M um          MAinvAL STRAGz AND TaANspoRTAIoN CoMPANY
Description of training                                       Quantity            Rate                     Amount ( 000)
(staff-veeks)    (1,OOOveek)       tcal         Foreign         Total
(Y)     (S)     (F)   (S)    (Y)     (S)
Domestic TraininS
1. Training of Department Supervisors In storage,
transportation and trade                                                                   5     0.9       -                   0.9
2.  Trainiag of technical staff, includlag engineers,
monltoring staff, fire and safety staff and supervisor
of core house management                                                                  40      7.0                  40      7.0
3. Tratnlng of operators, Including loading/unloading
operators and drivers                                                           -        lS0    26.3       -     -    150    26.3
Overseas Training/BringAns Experts to Jiengau
4.  Training of company's higher uanagement and Chief
Engineer in construction, design and emergency response
and accident prevention                                                         -          -        -    399  70.0    399    70.0
5 Training of specialists and technicians In application
and apparatus maintenance and repair, management,
storage and transport of hazardous materials, plann4ng
accitent prevention and emergeny response
(a) Study tour                                                                -          -       -    399  70.0    399    70.0
(b) Bringing foreign experts to Jiangp-                                       -          -       -    285  50.0    28S    50.0
Total                                                                                195    34.2   1083   120   1278   154.2
. _ .                              .~~~~~



D. FINANCIAL AGENT TRAINING PROGRAM
Table14: 14 dBwiMAIM Co  OF TRAINING FOR CHINA INvMfENJT SBANK ULANGSU BRANCH)
Description of training                                      Quantity            Rate                     Amount ('000)
(staff-weeks)    (1,000Iveek)       Local         Forelan        Total
(Y)     ($)    (T)   (S)    (T)      (S)
Trainitng Abroad
1. Training abroad of managers and professional staff
in financial and economic analysts, and
environmental appraisal                                       8                -          -           85.5  15.0  85.5    15.0
2. Training of manager. and professional staff In data
processing and information analysis, project
procurement, disbursement and implementation
(a) Study tour abroad                                       9                _          _     _     85.5  15.0  85.5    15.0
(b) Inviting foreign experts to lecture in Jiangsu          6                _          _     _    114    20.0  114       20.0
Domestlc Trainng 
3. Training of managerial and professlonal staff
in English                                                  360                -        200    35.0    -      -    200      35.0
4. General corputer training for managerial and
professional staff                                          360                -        200    35.0    -      -    200      3S.0
5. Training In financial and economlc analysis and
environmental appraisal                                     160                -        100    17.5    -      -    100      17.5
6. Training on procurement, disbursement and
implementation for managerial and professional staff        160                -        100   l1.5    -       -    100      17.5
Total                                                                              600   1050  2850  501 .0  88S      155.0



E. TRAiNNG EQUIMENT
Table 1S: ZIn Dim    COsT 0o TRAmIG EQuN4         nB MS
Item                                                     Qutatity    Unit    )Lte                      Amount ('000T
($'000)    Mocal         .....l2zAr.              oa
(Y)    (5)       T)  C- )             )     C
1. sLanuage laboratory                                      1         set       41.0     -     -         234   41.0        234   41.0
2. Closed-circuit television system                         1          set      10.0     -      -         57   10.0          57   10.0
3.  Large dieter projection system                          1          set      16.5     _      _         94   16.5          94   16.5
4. Desktop publshiag system                                 1          set      26.5     -      -        151   26.5         151   26.5
S.    Audlo-visual system                                   1          set      85.0     -      -        485   85.0        485   85.0
Total                                                                                        1.020  179.0       1.020  179.0
Table 16: ZBDIaG Ef
Item                                                     Quantity    Unit    Rate                       Amount t(000)
C$'000)    LocaL            lorel*"
CT)    CS)      CT)      CSMT                S
1.  (a) Audio-visual system                                 1        each        196   196  34.5           -      -        196   34.5
(b) Lar8e screen                                        1        each        1.2     7   1.2           -      -          7    1.2
2.  (a) Computer (ASBT33SE)                                 1        each         68     6812.0            -      -         68   12.0
(b) Network station                                     4        each        24    96  16.8           -       -         96   16.8
(c) Prlnter--UIP1U                                      1        each         16    16   2.8          -       -         16    2.8
(d) Printer--Epson LQ-16ook                             4        each         5    20   3.5           -       -         20    3.5
(e) Novell Ietwork/software                             I        each         13    13   2.3          -       -         13    2.3
(fl) Accessories                                                    -        45    45   7.9           -       -         45    7.9
3.  Ceras and oditimg equipment                             S        sets         76    76  13.3           -      -         76   13.3
Total                                                                         537  94.2                           J2m   94.2I



- 152 -                             ANN         13
DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMTES
Urban Wastewater Management Components
Wuxi sewerage component
Chaghou sewerage component
Zhenjiang sewerage component
Hazardous Material/Waste Management Components
Hazardous materal storage and transshipment
Jianssu & Wuxi Solid and Hazardous Waste Management and Registration Centers
Wuxi Hazardous Material ELlergency Response Center



WMU Drainage compny
P,o,  Cost Egaatie
1003                 1104               lo"                 100os                1097               10o"
Local  Footn  Total  Local Fon  Totl  Local F_ln  Totl  toel Fop  TOtal  Loed Fotalg  Totl  Loa forign Tal
A. CMl WoU Padck9
I . Tnn* Sews B Ibuttral)                   0.00     0.00   0.00  0.6?   0.00  0.67  0.50   OA    0.50  0.50   0.00   0.5o0  0       0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00
2.TIM* $"Mel$ *n                            0.00     0.00   0.00  0.?   0.00  0.1?  0.2    0.00   0.20  0.00   0.00   .O0  0.00   0oo  0.00  o.00   oo0   0.00
S.TM*SBWm sa (oal                           0.00     0.00   0.00  0.    0.00  0.30  0.*   0.00   0M   0.10   0.00   0.18  000   OA   0.00  oe0  o00  0.00
4. Tsm* S*wsG Ou"                           0.00     000o   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.5   0.00  0.50  0.42   0.0   0.42
5. Teuw* towl (hWse)                        0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.20   0o.   0.29  0.22   0.00  0.22  0.22   0.00  0.22
. Pmp8 stbtaB                               0.00     0.00   0.00  0.16   0.00  0.1S  0.17   0.00   0.17  0.17   0:00   0.1?  0.00   00  0.00  0.00   0.00  00
7. Pump Sttbn a                             0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.12   0.00  0.12  0.14   0.00  0.14
0. Rettluan S8w,. IA                        0.00     0.00   0.00  0.75   0.00  0.7J  .O0   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  O0o   0.0  0.00  0AO   0.00  0.00
0. R   dokubn towelS (cantos)               .00      0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  000  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   00.0  0.40  0.0   0.40  0.00   0.00  000
10. Ronmbk, Sewers    et ).o 0.00                    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.73   0.00   0.73  0.49   0.00   0.4   000   000  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00
11. Re   _ u 9la tlmm S pws I o             0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  o00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00 0o00 0o00   000  0.00  0.6    0.00  0.50
12. Rodiculate Ses  (etr)                   0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.60   0.00A  0.0   0.37   0.00  0.3?
13. RoladlOc SUws,.  et)                    0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   O.O   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.50   0.00  AOJ  0.37   0.00  0.37
14. Lucun 8TW (IB+I)                        0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.04  0.04  0.00   1.13   1.13  0.00   1.13   1.13  0.00   05   0.67  0.00   0.00  0.00
TOta Cl Wods                              0.00      0.00   0.00  2D0   0.04 . 3.03  2.02   1.13   3.15  2;1   1.43   3.45  235   0.57  292  2.00   0.00  as0
S. EquIpmnt Pacp
is. PumpwMacIa   (.SIat                     0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.11   0.11  0AO   0.00  o0o  0.00   0.00 . Oc
II. PuropMacd*ty 'P.8 I)                    0.00     0.00   0.00  0o.   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0n0   0.00  0.03  0.00   0.00  0.S
17. PumpbAhlny (B.T.W WIS + 1)              0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.0  0.89  0.00   1.33   1.33  0.00   1.33   1.33  0.00   0.00  00      0.00   000  0.00 
is. matanc Equlp_m                          0.00     0.07   0.07  0.00   0.29  0.20  0o .0.O A 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  OQ    O 0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  o          e 
19. monbe gqulpmmt                          0.00     0AS   0.05  0.00   0.22  0.22  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.O   0.00  00  000   0.00  0.00  OA
TOW   dmen Atamuinto                      0.00      0.13   0.13  0.00   1.45  1.40  0.00   1.41   1.41  0.00   1.45   1.45  OA3   0.09 0.02  0.05   0.00  0.05 
Subtoa  ona pakages (A + B)                 0.00     0.13   0.13  200   2.41  4.40  2.02   2.54   4.60  2.31   2.50   4.00  2.3    1.40  3.03  2.13   0.00  2.13
C. LanUld_ae &ilin    t.tlmt                 0.33     0.00   0.33  0.05   0.00  O.OS  0.05   0.00   0.05  0.02   0.00   0.02  0.02   0.00  0.02  0.02   0.00  0.02
0. PoW v uppy and atm                        0.22     0.00   0.22  0.09   0.00  O00  0.09   0.00   0.o  0.09   0.00   0.00  0.05   0.00  0.05  0.04   0.00  0.04
Be"codtbeSmr.TAaktnln                     0.55     0.13   0.0I  2.23   2.41  4.J3  2.15   2154   4.70  243   2.50   SOt  2.45   1.46  3.1  2.19   0.0  2.10
F. Tb       etl aselatanc & bt_g
D"eig a p.oledtma nwmt                    0.23     0.04   0.27  0.17   0.04  0.21  0.11   0.04   0.14  0.15  04   0.18  0.12   0.00  0.12  0.10   .O0  0.10
Tainino                                   0.08      0.00   0.17  0.00  o0s  0.17  0.0    0.08   0.17  0.00   0.00   0.17
Subtotat.TA and vlnbng                      0.31     0.12   0.44  0.25   0.12  0.327  0.19   0.12   0.31  0.23   0.12   0.35  0.12   0.00  0.12  0.10   0.00  0.10
TOTAL SASE COST 11002)                       0.6?     0.25   1.11  2.A    2.53  5.00  234   20    5.01  255    2.70   5.30  2.57   1.46  4.03  2.21    0 .O  22
PhyalCont.                         10.0%     0.00     0.02   0.11  0.25   0.25  0.S0  0.23   0.27   0.50  0.27   0.27   0.54  02    0.15  0AO  0.23   000  0.23
TBC + PhyldydCont.                           0.95     0.27   1.23  2.72   2.78  5.50  250   29.3   5.51  2.02   2.07   5.t0  2.83   1.e0  4.43  2S1   040  251
Puce C   - oncy                              0.07     0.02   0.09  0.31   032  O0S.  0.40   0.40  0.   0.58   0.59   1.17  0.69   0.39  1.0  0.73   000  0.73
TOTAL COST                                   1.02     0.29   1.32  3.04   3.10  6.14  2.9S   3.30   0.37  3.60   3.5S   7.00  3.52   1.09  5.51  3.24   0.00  3.24
Intdet *ng onbucion                                   0.15   0.15  0.00   0.28  0.28  0.00   010   0.50  0.00   0.74   0.74  0.00   0.9S  0.98
tealtbang eqI_8d                           1.02     0.44   1.47  3.04   a3s   5.41  29l   3.00   6.B?  3.50   4.31   7.*  3.52   29?  0.49  3.24   o0  3.24



Wi S   - sw
Ptr4c CosEstima
10t                20                    TOTAL
Loeal Forign Totd  Local Forign Total    Loca   Foragon  td
A. CbI WeorkPacke
1. TnklewmrsB (cntr4                       0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.07       0.00   1.07
2. Tmnk Sewr U (eo                         0.0    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.43       0.00   0.40
9 Trn8k Sewem U (es                        0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.09       0.00   0.09
4. Trunk Sewer N (mm)                      0.42   0.00  0.42  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.40       0.00    1.40
. Tnmk Swer U (othe)                       0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    078        0.00   0.73
. PuM" Saion VA                            0.*    0.00  00oo  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.49       0.00   0.49
7. Pump    U Staon                         0.09   0.0   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.35       0.00    0.36
S. R_ediution Sewe IA                      0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.75       0.00   0.75
0. RiAtAtlcewe is      e (cete)            0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.14       0.00   1.14
10. Recuston Swer a (wet)                  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.22       0.00    1.22
II. elstinSe woersl("ah)                   0.42   0.00  0.42  0.42   0.00  0.42    1.41       0.00   1.41
12. Recuato Swer a (cent8)                 0.3?   0.00  0.37  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.24       0.00   1.24
13. ReclIon dSeer U twe                    0.37   00oo  0.37  0OO   0.00  0.00    1.24        0.00    1.24
14. Lon STW 1+5)                           0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0OO  0.00    0.00       37s   1.78
ToW CtAI Works                            1.07   0.00  1.0?  042    0.00  0.42   12.ss       3.7   16.73
9. Equipment Packg
I8 PumplMctlnry (P.S B)                    0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00       0.25   0.25
10. PuMPA_    sY (P.1_ .811)               0.04    OO  0.04  0OO    OO  0.00    0.11        0.00   0.11
1?. PnPl_actny (ST.W U + U)                0.o   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   .00    0.00        4.45   4.45
It MabiAbeelEquipment                      0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00       0.36   0.36
10. MonIoin Equipment                      0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00       0.27  Q27
Tow Eqwpmnat kUlnatnco                    0.04   0.00  0.04  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.11       5.33   5.45
Sub boet contact pacag"(A +)              1.71   0.00 1+t.  0.42   0.00  0.42   13.o         9.11  22.17
C. Land acquesn & resslemenrtd              0.01   0.00  0.01  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.50       0.00    0.60
D. Powr supply and utfe                     0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.58       0.00   0.5
Bes cost beloreTA and ttanIng             1.73   OAO   1.73  0.42    0.00  0.42   14.15      0.11  23.20
E. Technic   tance & taning
Desin & prclec managmet                   0.10   0.00  0.10  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.00       0.15   1.10
TinIng                                                                              .33      0.34   O0.
SubtokakTA and training                    0.10   0.00  0.10  0.00   0.00  0.00    1.36       0.49   1.84
TOTAL BASE COST (1092)                      1.82    0.00  1.82  0.48   0.00  0.48   15.50      0.00  25.10
Physed CoAt.                        10%   0.18   0.00  0.18  0.05   0.00  O.5         1.55     0.00   2.51
tC + PhysicalCont.                          2.01   0.00  2.01  0.53   0.00  0.Q5    17.00    10.Q0   27.01
Pdre Contingency                            0.58   0.00  0O.   0.21    0.00  0.21    3.07      1.78    5.4
TOTAL COST                                  2.58   0.00  2.68  0.74   0.00  0.74   20.72    12.34   33.00
Inbt  durin cnstrudoin                                                                0.00     2.01   2.0
Toteidnnoilg requked                      2.8   0.00  2.58  0.74   0.00  0.74   20.72    14.92  35.71



c- s0 - 
Psiojac Coat elIaaUmn
1003                 104                  100s                 1006                 1007                  rorAs.
#*A                           Loa farelp  TOa    Local   an Tal   Loal Foren Totbl   Loca Foeip  Totel   Local Foreg  Totd ale cal  foedaig  Tda
A. C04 Weds Paco.
t. tO Cbenowl"Tnaels  w             G.AS   0.00   ont   3.40   0.00   3.40   t*S  o0n       SAO   0.00   0.0 0.o0   0n0    DAD   0.o          5AS ooo  0      50
*) psmphgatlena                    OA   0.00   0n0    0tt   0.0    0.21   0.    0.00 0no         0.00   0.0   0.D   0.     OO   O  CAD    041 O.            0.41
-m0                                     00 0.01 a     8.1   0.60 SOt   1.8   0.00U188OO          .00   0.0    00 0 00   0.00   OO    OA             0.00   0.40
2.C001 O1ubs ls                       00     0 0.00 GAG   GAG   o.oo  oGAo   1.2t t  0o0   1a2   ow    *         0.00   0.o    GAG   OJO    1.32      0O  1.2
S.CFlenbiuTre dPlan                 0.00   0o.  o0o   35    0on   s3*   o00   O.O   0.0    0.0o   0n0   0.00  o00    0AG   0.00    am5                 DAD   SA
4. (A) S.saT,.eme.tPknt            o0o   o0o   o0n  o0O             0.00 GAG   0.03   0.00   0.63   0.00   oo   0.00  0o0   0D0   0.00    0AS          AO0   0*3
0) hbtanTman_t PnW                o0o   0.00   O*0   0.00   0.00  o0o   O.1S   00   0.t1   023    AOJ   0.23   0.o   0j0  o0o    0.34                0no   0*4
(a) Ada*h Sd. Pnt)                 0.00   0.0    0  0.00 o     0o o.00   0.00   022   0.00   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.00   OQ0 . O    0.00    022    o0o    022
"u-Ic.o 0.00   0. 0. 00   0 .00   0.00o0o   0.90   0.0    0."0  0.23  0o0    023   0.00   0*0   0n0    1.10                                       0*0   1.19
TotlACilWods                      o01    0.00   O9t   7.17  O00   7.17   4.10   0.00   4.10   0.23              0.23                        12.47     ono  t2.47
B. EquLpaia Paclag
5. Po" aN Macaay                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  o00   1.0    10    0.0 0t 1Oo1  1oo1 0.00   0*0   0.0            0*0      2n9   2.00
C. EaIea Con#  Gem                  0.00  o0o   0.00   0.00   0.o0   0.00 0no               0.00   0.00 0n5    0.5    0*0   0AG   GAG 0O0              0.55  O.
7. Akblowas                         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0 .00   0 .00   0.00 GAG   0.10   0o*   0.10   0.AD     0.00 00    0.10     0.00   0.0
o. va_o 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0*n0   0.00   0.00  o0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                     0.00       0.12     0O*    0.12
0. Cab                              0  0.0 0   0.00   0.00   0.00ono          0.5o   0.00   0.o  n   *s     0.00   0.0    0.00   0.00   ono    0.05    on*o  o0s
t. HadIng Equomemi                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  o0o   0.00  o0o   0.00   o.01   Oo    o0t   0.00   OAO  o0n             0.01     0*0 0.GA
tt. ComunleatlonEquk".nt            0.00   0.00   0*n0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.03   0.00   0.08   0.00 0o0   0.00 0o0   0*0   080            003      oao   0.0
i2. I   rLnA ma                    o00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   020   0.20   0o.   0.14   0.14  o0*    0*O  o0*            0.00     034   0.34
13. Labortr EquImen                 0*0   0.00   0E.0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15   0.1    0.00   0.00   0.00  o0o    0o   0*0    o*o 0         0.15   0.15
t4. ata*rgEquipmnt                  0*0l   0.00  0O0     o 0.00   0.00   0*0   0.00   0.00   0*0   0.00   024   0.24   0.00  O0O    00    0.00         0.24   0.24      J
tS. MwhwE dqulp_m                  o00    0.000   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0.00       00 0.00o      0.03  OO   0.03   0.03   0*0   0913    0.0o        0*0    OS       UA
to. Tainb  Eqipment                 0.00   0.00  o0o   0.00   0*o 0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.22   0.22   0.00  o0o    0*0    0.00        0.22   0*2
W. O* FadWa/ quip.                  0.00   0.00   0*o0  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.23   0.23   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0    0*0   0*0    0*0         0.23   0.23
18. Opa & M    V.&A Eqpmt.          0.00   0.00   0O0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  o0*    0.00   0.00   0.05   0.05   o.oo 0 .00 o0o    O*            0o.5   O5
TOtWa EqlamAt                      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.4   1.O0   t1O    0.2t   3.41  392   0.03    *S0   0*3    0.37         .07   S.45
saA*to coi*actpac81agaa(A,+)        0.01   0.00   0.01   7.17   000   7.17   430   1.0S   590   0.44   3.41   385   0.03   0on   0.03   12.S           5.07  17.02
C. land a.qudhltbo"a £tocalllenwe    0.05   0*0   0.S   0.00 0.00 o     00 0o   * 0.00 0o CAD   0.00   0.00  o00   0oo   omso 040   05                 0o0   o.6s
0. Power Uouiea ao    cowa           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25   0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00   0.25   025   oo   0.25    0.9         0.00   0.00
Sanoadtbolw* TAandhlanln            1.78   0.00   1.76   7.42   0.00   7.42   4.55   1.OO   6.21   0.    3.41   4.10   027   0.00   027   1440         5.07  19.78
0. TecOlel inaltan  a as*dig
Oea"4g a ojamanagamaat             0.01   0.04  o08    0.00   0.04  o0    0*3   0.04   0.07   0.04   0*04   0.03   0.03   O.O 0*3    O)              0.15   l.O6
Traning                            0.12   0.03   0.15   0.12   0.03   0.15   0.12  o0.0    0.15   0.12   0.03   0.15                         0*8      O.t2  o0S
Subtotal: TA and traIsing           0.93   0.7   1.00   0.12   007   0.10   015   0.7   0.22   0.16   007.  0.23   0.03   0.00   0.03    1.4          0.27   1.07
TOTAL BASE COST (1102)               2.9   0.07   2.76   7.54   0.07   7.81   4.70   1.73   6.43   0.65   3.48   4.33   0.30  o0o   0.30   10.09        5.34  21.43
Phy    CeOt                   10%    0.27   0.01   02a   0.75   0.01  O0S   0.47   0.17  0.4  0o0    035   0A3   0.03   0.00   0o3    1s.             O0S    2.14
1l0C + PhyaleaCot.                   2.96   0*7   303   8.30   0.07   837   s.17   tO    7.07   0.94   3*3   4.70   0.33   0*0   0.33   17.70           5*07  23.7
Ple Co*4ga                           0.17   0.00   0.17   0.70   0.01   AO*   0.70   0.5  Oo   0.17   0.08"   00    0*7   0S0   o07    1.0             09S   25       I
OTAL COST                            3.13   0.08   3.20    AS    0sS   9.17   soM    2.1O    103 1 tA.   4.51   5.1   0.41   0*0   0.41   10*0          0*2   26.42
hIretedafthnarotdmn                 00   0.14   0.14   0o*   0.35   0.5   0*0   0W    0*A7   0.00   0.02   02   0.00   090   0*0    0*0                2*8   20
Totaae    9oqm*aad                  3.13   0.22   3.35   9.00   0.43   9.52   5B8   2*2   8.70   1.10   5.43   .53   0.41   OD*   0.4t   10J0    080  28.5



190t                1904                t105                  1000                 I"7                   TOTAL
Loa Poio   To        Lom  Fwmp  TOW    Lm FeOni  TOW    toal 104dp  ToW    LoW Fuidg  Tow                LfolT  Fidga TOW
A. OM W   P%a0aWoe
I. _     8eaptw                                0.00   1.0?   1.07   0.00   34    a4       .00   ".    0.81   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   00   00    0e0          53      .3
Lba        cI1p wa                             0oo   0CO   0.00   0.43   0.00   0.43   0.14   0.00   0.14   00   0.00   0.CO   0.00   00    O0    05             0.00   0A7
Mm  wb w p                                    0.00   0O.O 0.00   0.e0   0.00   .O0    0.88   0eo   08   0.22   0.00  0Q22   0.00   0.00   Q0.    1.10           040   1.10
4.    C           r                            0OO   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    .00    47   o0   0.47   0.68   0.00   0.50   0.00   0.O    0.00    1.05        0.00   I-OS
ï YWhA    l8pi.00   0.00 .OQO    0.00   0.00   0.00    0                                         .O   0.00   Q0.    0.00   0.0o   0.32   0.0   0Q2    o0.3       0.00 0o.M
ï6 nAb      UrOP          SWOon                0.21   0.00   021   0.01   0.00   0.91   0.28   0.00   0.28   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   00   0.0    1.40        0o.   1.O
7.s Po aub     Yls      PS                     0.00   .O    0.00   0.00   0.24   024   0.00   0.00   0.80   0.00   0.40   00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00 o     1*    1.2
&f *qato p Son                                 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0L00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.44   0.00   0.44   0.44   0.0   0.44    0.89     000   0.6
0. Pond i                                      0.00   0.00 o0.      0.0 4   0.4OM    O.   'G21   0.00   .2    0.00   0.00   0.00  o00   00 O.           0.oc     0.0   0.o
MA,Qbdg.ue1 qp,.ag"sW                          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.18   G.O   0.18   0.22   0.00   012   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o   0.00 o oo    041         n0oo   041
ToWACiWwi                                     0.21   1.07   1.28   1.88  3.73   5.9   2.22   1.70   3s2   1.20   0.40   1.78   0.78   0.00   0.7    0.35    0Sa   1s.4
ti.0 sP                                        0       .oo   0.00   0.00   0.38   3x   0.00   0.31   0.31   0.00   0.31   0.31   0.00   025   025    0.0         1.25    25
ltP  dapo"--)                                  0.00   0.1  OQ10   0.00   0.27   0.2    oc0   0.12   0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   QOO   0.00    00          04s   0.40
3lPa dis  n om    7 +)                        0.00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.20    2    0.00   020   0.20   0.00   0.40   040   0,00   020   020    0.0          0.00   0.00
14.IEqt  A sa £ambb                            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.21   on1   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   .00   0.00   0.00 0oOO   D0          0.00     a2l  o0
&a            b        t                       0.00   SAO   0.      0.00   0.31   0.3    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    .0    0O   0.O    o00        0.31   0.3
wa&Co.wtw*saom                                 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.00   0.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.10    0.00   GAS       u
TowSebqt*Mos                                  0.00   0.1    0.10   0.19   1.36   1.5S   0.00   0.84   0.04   0.00   0.71   0.71  o0    0.45   0.45   Q0.1       .28    U44 
Sa*1oI:. Co*Wouhms.(Ay+BP                      0.21   1.17   1.38   2.05   .03   7.14   222   2.23   4.55   U.20   1.20   2.40   0.70   0.45   121    054        102*4  1078
cLwdaft*hk l=AUbswmt                            0.06   0.00   0.05   0.15   0.00   0.15   0.    0.00   0.Q 6    0.34   0.00   Q04   0.12   0.o0   0.12    125     0.00   t25
fseosdbdWTAuwlbft                              0.26   1.17   1.43   2.20   5.00   7.30   2.00   2.33   5.14   1.84   1.20   283   0.88   0.45   .3    7.70    1024  18.03
D. Too    asab0eAvft
P*dg&PoPAdWN_WAt                              043   0.04   047    .10   0.04   014   0.03   0.04   0.07   0.04   0.04   0.00   0.03   0.00   0.03    0.03       0.15   078
TeSb*f                                        0.01   0.03   0.04   001   0O03   0.04   0.01   00    0.4   0.01   0.03   0.4                             04      0.12   QS0.
sW*  VTAendbak*g                               0.44   0.07   0.51   0.11   0.07   0.18   0.04    .7   0.11   0.05   0.07   0.12   0.03 ne  0    0.03    0.0?     0?   0.03
TOTAL MM COST (10OM)                             .70   1.24   1.94   2.31   5.16   7.47   2.84   2.40   524   1.60   1.28   2.05  o0.t   0.45   1.36    0.40    10.51  low
P h*w Cmt                               12.5A    0.00    .1S   0.24   0.20   0.04   0.03   0.38   0.30   0.0Q   0.21   0.10   0.37   0.11   0.00   0.17    1.06   1.3t   237
0I+Pa¢+hcw                                      0.70   1.30   2.15   2.50   5.0   8.40   320   270   5.00   1.80   1.42   3.31   1.02   0.51   1S3        47    11.82  21.
Ptmcwoesc                                       0.04   0.07   6.11   0.22   0.50   0.72   0.38   0.32   0.70   0.29   0.22   0.51   0.10   0.10   020    1.13     11   2g3
TOTAL COST                                      0.80   1.47   2.27   2.82   6.30   9.12   3.58   3.02   0.60   2.18   1.44   3.82   1.21   0.00   1.82   10.00    13.03  23.63
htrtd dui.ownb4euln                             0.00   0.16   0.18   0.00   0.45   0.45   0.00   080   0.80   0.00   0.08   0.0    0.00   1.0?   1.07    0.00     3.47   347
Tohld nbclnqglded                              0.80   1.63   2.43   2.82   6.    9.57   3.56   3*2   7.4t   2.t8   2.02   4.80   1.21   1.67   2.09   10.00    18050  2700        _



HAZARDOUS PATE*AL STORM     & TUMS-SNIPNIET COMPONENT
Project Cost Estimate
.. *....................
(USD Thousand)
1992                   1993                     1994                      1995               Total                   Grand Total
Project Component                          Local   Foreign        Local   Foreign          Local  Foreign           Local    Foreign         Local    forefgn                 tUSD Thousand)
,............................................................................................................... .............                                        .      ...............................  ..................................................... ...._
Civi  Work                                   0        0.0    1554.5        700.0        454.5       300.0          0.0                   2009.1        1000.0                 3009.1
Equipments                                   0        0.0         0.0         0.0       245.5       600.0        563.6                     609.1        600.0                 1409.1
tnstalLation                                 0        0.0         0.0         0.0        83.6                    127.3                    210.9           0.0                  210.9
Office Supplies                              0        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0                     6.4                       6.4          0.0                     6.4
Preparation                                  0        0.0        10.0         0.0          0.0                    18.2                      28.2          0.0                   28.2
Recomn. & tesign                             0        0.0        23.6         0.0        27.3                     27.3                      78.2          0.0                   78.2
Proj.  bnuagefment                           0        0.0        30.9         0.0         30.9                    16.4                      78.2          0.0                   78.2
Total Base Cost                           0.0         0.0    1619.1        700.0        841.8       900.0        759.1          0.0      3220.0       1600.0                  4820.0
Phys tcal Contirngency                     0.0        0.0       161.9        70.0        84.2        90.0         75.9          0.0        322.0        160.0                  482.0
Price Continfency                          0.0        0.0       100.1        43.3        88.2        94.3        113.4          0.0        301.7        137.6                  439.2
-.................. .........-...................... ..............................................................................................................................................   . . . . .. . 
Total Project Cost                         0.0        0.0    18B1.1        813.3       1014.2    1084.3          948.4          0.0      3843.7       1897.6                 5741.2
tnterest during construction              0.0         0.0        22.2       44.7         56.1       123.6          0.0          0.0         74.5       160.2                   234.8
.............................................................................................................................Ö.......
Total F fnancing Required                    0.0         0.0    1902.6        856.5       1067.3    1201.3        1047.7           0.0      4026.2       2057.8                 6084.1
I>



- 158 -                          ^,S=   13
JIANGSU AND WUXI SOLID AND HAZARDOUS WASTE
MANAGEMENT AND REGISTRATION CENTERS
PROJEr COSr ESTMATES
($ million)
Items                                               Foreign    Local    Total
costs      costs    costs
Waste Management Information System
Provincial computer system                          0.325      -        0.325
Mnicipal computer system                            0.005      -        0.005
Sampling and monitoring Vehic'es                      0.070      -        0.07
(one each for JMRC & WMRC)
Sampling & analytical instruments
Provincial Center                                   0.100      -        0.1
Minicipal Center                                    0.100      -        0.1
Waste Management Reference Materials                  0.020      -        0.02
TA and Training                                       0.426      0.02    0.428
Office facilities                                                0.27    0.27
Total Base Cost                                 0.936       0.29    1.23
Contingencies                                         0.184      0.06    0.24
Total                                            1.120      0.35    1.47



-159 -                          ANNEXl1
WUX HAZARDOUS MATERIAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE
CENTER
PROJrT COST ESTJMATES
($ mulion)
Items                                             Foreign    Local    Total
costs     costs    costs
Equipment                                           0.05      0.1      0.06
Building                                            0.03      0.005   0.035
Computer and Accessory                              0.01      0.01    0.02
Meteorological Station                              -          0.009   0.009
Software                                            -         0.007   0.007
Audio visual item                                   -          0.05    0.05
Zmergency Van with Safety                           -         0.01    0.01
Office Item and Furniture                           0.01      0.01    0.02
Fire Fighting Facilities                            -         0.65    0.65
Medical Rescue Facilities                           -          0.22    0.22
TA and Training                                     0.04       0.44    0.48
Total Base Cost                               0.01       1.5      1.6
Contingencies                                       0.02       0.3     0.32
Total Proiect Costs                           0.12       1 8      1.92



-160-                          ANNEX 14
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank
Bank fiscal year         Semester    Cumulative    Project    Profile La
and Semester                  ($ million) -----    -------- (1) --------
1994
First                     2.0            2.0          0.8        0.0
Second                    8.4           10.4          4.2        3.0
1995
First                    12.3           22.7          9.1       10.0
Second                   36.0           58.7        23.5        18.0
1996
First                    66.3          125.0        50.0        30.0
Second                   39.0          164.0        65.6        46.0
1997
First                    27.9          191.9         76.8       58.0
Second                   19.8          211.7        84.7        74.0
3998
First                    19.2          230.9        92.4        82.0
Second                    7.1          238.2        95.2        90.0
1999
First                     5.2          243.2         97.3       94.0
Second                    4.7          247.9        99.2        98.0
2000
First                     0.9          248.8        99.5       100.0
Second                    0.8          249.6        99.8         -
2001
First                     0.2          249.8         99.9        -
Second                    0.2          250.0        100.0        -
La Bank-wide standard disbursement profile for industrial development and finance operations
issued on June 1992.



INDICATIVE SUPERVISON PLAN
staff-
Date                                        Act4vity                                                         Specialization weeks
6193      Industrial nuburolects and bazardous waste coponents                                                lndustrial       12
1. Review of status of Industrial subprojects already preapproved includlg design,             environmental
engineering implementation procurement disbursements and EA;                                 speciliset,
inuaicipal
2. Review status of Project pipeline being developed for eniterprises In the four cities,       engineer,
inaludap feasablpty studies, progress on CIS appraisal and schedule for completion to    financial
flusl appreaUllapproral;                                                                     analyst
3. Review status of hazardous waste subeomponents including JHRC/WMRC, WHMERC and WmfST,
including mobilization of consultants for TA and training;
4. Review the status of tariff study for hazardous material storage and trans-shipment;
5. Review the latast financial projections of the Wuxi Hazardous Material Storage and
Trading Company.
6. Revie status of the two JGP studies TMI  (Wuxi and Suzhou) and Hazardous waste
treatment In VailC
Urban wastewater  anwaement cozmonents
A. Technical tenaineerina} asPeCts
1. Reviw  status of detailed designs, resettlement programs and contractor pre-
qualificationl
2. Review consultancy selection progress for implementation assistance;
3. Review progress of training programs.
B. Enitroumental renulations
Review status of water quality mnitoring, waste discharge licensing and control.
C. Vinancial asnects
1. Review project costs and financing arrangementt
2. Review the finances of the sewerage cmpanies$
3. Revi.-f the status of sewerage tariff studies;
4. ReV i. the progress of financal management training.



Staff-
Date                                       Activity                                                       Specialization veeks
12193    Envirounental strateaw and action slaes                                                           industrial       12
specialist,
Review the updates of the provincial a"d runicipal enviromntal strategy and action plans.  environmental
Assess progress on the achievement of the targets for the environwental Improvement as        specialist,
given in the action plan for 1995.                                                            mtnicipal
engineur,
Industrial suburolecte and hazardous waste components                                            financial
analyst
The tasks are similar to those outlined for 12193, ezcept for the follow-up actions
relating to the two JGF-financed studies--discuss recccmmndations and action plans that
result frau these two studies includintg agree on the final list of IVIE subprojects to be
to be included in the project.
Urban wastewater management coauonents
A. Technicl lenoaneerinR) aspects
Tasks specific to Andividual cities
1. *ual--(a) review designs and documents for Luctn (phases 1B and II), trunk sewers and
pmpiag stations; and (b) review progrm and progress on reticulation sewers.
2. Changahou--(a) review designs and documents for Chengbei treatment plant, pump stations
and trunk sewers.
S. ZhenJianSg--(a) review designs and dociAmtes for iaterceptoers, pumping stations,
subminae plpe and outfall; and (b) review design proposals for pilot waste
stabilization pond.
Taks molfcable for all three cities
1. Revie progress of resettlement programts  and
2. Review progress of tralning prograss.
3. Inviromnental renulatIone--as for 6193
C. Fnancial aspects--as for 6193



Staff-
Date                                       ActiVIty                                                       Specialization week.
6194     Industrial suburotects and hazardous waste ca_monents--same as for 12193                          same as above    10
The tasks are similar to those outlined for 12193, except for the foliow-up actions relating
tot
1. R nevie the progress of the TIVI pilot programs In Wuxi and Susbon. This would include
reviewing all subproject TVIZ proposals that have boon completed and the appraisal
resalts and status of early implementation; identify any issues that need attention to
implement these subprojects.
2. Revies the recumndations of the tariff study and discuss and agree on the tariff
action plan for hazardous material storage and trans-shipment.
Urban wastevater mnaonement comuonents
Technical, entironmental and f4nancial aspects are s4milar to those outlined for 12193,
except for the follow-up actions:
Review the recomendations of the sewerage tariff study and discuss and agree on the tariff
action plans for the three seweraVe compaiSes.
12194    Engl,rongental stratear and action plans--same as for 12193                                       same as above    10
All uro1ect components--same as for 6194
6/95     All lrolect components--sume as for 6194                                                          ame  s above    10
12195    Environmental stratear and action plans                                                           same as above   10
Undertake comprehensive review of the achievements of the 1995 targets in the environrental
action plan and agree on the work needed to update and adjust the strategy and action plans
to respond to any shortfallA sand cbanged conditions and action to achieve the targets In
the year 2000.
All protect comugnents--same as for 6194, except for the follow-up actions relating to the
sewerage component in Zhenjiang: (a) detailed review of costs, operational effiietecy,
alternative layouts, detention times etc. of pilot ponds; and detailed review of rlver
outfall.
6J96      AU prolect com_onents--same as for 6194                                                          same as above    9



Sta ff-
Date                                        Activity                                                         Specialization weeks
12196     Knvironmental straten? and action Dlans--same as for 12/93                                          same as above    9
All orolect comwonents--sae as for 6194, except for the following tasks relating to the
Changezbou sewerage component: (a) project completion reviSew, icluding detailed comparisons
of appraisal and actual performances (b) review the facilities, equipment, funding and
procedures for maintenance; and (c) review training prograsm.
6197      All orolect comgOnents--same as for 6194                                                            same as above    9
12/97     Environmental strateaw and action plans--same as for 12/93                                          same as above    9
All oro1ect components--same as for 6194, except for the following tasks relating to the
Zhenjlang sewerage componentt (a) project completion review, including detailed comparisons
of appraisal and actual performance; (b) review the facilities, equipment, funding and
procedures for maintenance; and (e) review training program.
6198      All urolect components--same as for 6194                                                            s    as above    8
12/98     Environmental strategy and action plans--same as for 12/93                                          same as above    8
AU1 orolect comonents--same as for 6194
6199     AU 1  rolect components--same as for 6194                                                            sa se as above    8
12199     Ernironmental strategy and action ylana--same as for 12193                                          same as above    a
All oroLect comonents--same as for 6194
612000    AllU  rolect components--same as for 6194                                                           same as above    8
1212000   Environmental strategV ant action slans                                                             same as above    8
Undertake comporehensive review of the achievements of the 1995 targets in the environmental
action plan and agree on the work needed to update and adjust the strategy and action plans
to respond to any shortfalls and changed conditions and action to achieve the targets in
the year 2000.
AU prolect comPonents--same as for 6/94, except for the following tasks relating to the Wuxi
sewerage componentt  (a) project completion review, Including detailed comparisons of
appraisal and actual performance; (b) review the facilities, equipment, funding and procedures                                    I
for maintenance; and (c) review training program.



- 165 -                       ANNEX 16
MUCIPAL FINANCES
Changzhou
Suzhou
Wuxi
Zhenjiang



MEulFnance
Changzhou Municipaly: Financial Projection
(millon Yuan)
--------------------------------U--Actual  ---------- --- ---------------Proleded  --------------------
1988   1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995         1998  1997  1998  1999  2000
Total mvenue coibcted                  757    816   880   979  1090  1202  1325  1481          1610  1775  1957  2158  2379
Aggregate retenfion ratio             29%    30%   30%   30%   30%   30%   30%   30%           30%   30%   30%   30%   30%
Aggrgat. local revenue                 219    246   264   294   327   360   397   438           483   533   587   647   714
Operation                              157    170   178   193   211   230   249   271           295   320   348   379   412
Urban maintenance                    38     36    38    42    47    62    57    83           70    77    85    94   103
Cuture, Education, Pub.             47      51    53    59    65    71    78    85           92   101   110   120   131
Admhktration                         41     45    47    52    57    63    69    75           82    89    97   106   116
Socl relet & subsidies               30     37    37    39    42    44    46    48           51    53    58    59    62
Caplal                                  61      64    64    70    78    87    96   106          117   130   143   158   175
Capial/urban construction            32     44    44    49    55    61    67    74           81    89    99   109   120
Enterprise tech. retrm                2      3      3     4      4      5     5      5        6      6     7      7      7
Reseach & devebpment                  5      2      2     2      2     2      3      3        3      4     4      4      5
Eiml al&water                        12     14    14    15    17    19    21    24           27    30    34    38    43
Tda spending                           208    234   240   263   290   316   345   377           412   450   492   538   588



Municipal Finances
Suzhou Municipality: Financial Projection
(million Yuan)
------- ---------------------------Actual  ----------- ----------------------olected  ----
1988   1989  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995         1998   1997   1998   1999   2000
Total revenue coDected                890    748   610    750    902    994   1096   1208          1332   1489   1620   1786   1969
Aggregate retenton ratio            32.0%   34.0%  39.0%   43.0%   39.0%   39.0%   39.0%  39.0%   39.0%   39.0%   39.0%   39.0%  39.0%
Aggregat local revenue                221    254   319    324    352    388    427    471           520    573    632    696    768
Operation                             164    183   183    209    232    256    282   *311           343    378    417    460    508
Urban maintenance                   22      24    24      29     33      37     42      47        58     00      67     75      as
Cunu,e Education Pub.               44      50    50      59     66      72      80     88        97    107    118    130    143
AdmInistration                      47      51    51      60     67      74      81     s9        99    109    120    132    146
Socia reti & subsidies              51      57    57      6o     68      72      79     88        94    103    112    123    134
Capital                                56      56    57      64      71     78      87     96       108    118    130    144    159
Cap*aVurban consttuction            34      36    36      42     47      52      57     83        70      n7     85     93    103
Enterpdsetech. reform                6       5     5       5      6       6       7      7         8      9      10     11      12
Research & development               6       2     2       2      3       3       3      4         4      4       5      5       6
Environmental protecton             10      13    13      14     1S      17      19     22        24     27      31     35      39
Tota spending                         220    239   239    272    303    834    369    407           449    496    547    604    667
Ö-- --- --- --- --- ---       --- --- -- --- ---      --- --- --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -X
I



Wuxi Municipaliy: Financal Projection
(mIllion Yuan)
1986  1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997    1998         1999      2000
Taalrevenuecofleced                          1.070  1,135   1.163  1.048  1.189  1,335  1,500  1,686  1,894  2,128    2.391  2.688  3.017
Agreate retention tatio                      27.1%  28.6%   27.1%  32.4%6 32.0%  32.0%  32.0%  32.0%  32.0%  32.0%    32.0%  32.0%  32.0%
Aggregte lal revenue                           290   325    315   340   380   427   480  5S9   606   681          765      85a       96B
Operation                                      219   260    252   265   290   317   347   s380   416   455        499      548       572
U,ban maltr nance                           25    28      24    24    27    30    33    37    41    46          51       57        60
Cultue. Educaton. Pub.                      63    71      85   108   120   134   149   168   184   205         229      254       270
Adminh_aton                                 61    73      69    74    81    88    96   105   15   125          137      150       156
Sochi relief  subsidies                     70    88      74    S9    62    65    68    72    75    79         8a        87        87
Others (eg. supporting agrecufture)                                     0     0      0     0      0     0        0        0         0
Capital                                         69    60     63    75    84    94   106   119   133   150         166      190       204
Capilapuuban construction                   27    35      35    37    41    46    51    57    63    70         78        87        92
Enerprisetech, reform                        7      6      4      5     5     5      6     6      8     6        6        6         6
Resoarch & developnent                       17     6     16    24    27    31    35    40    4s    51          58       86        71
Envonmental protection                       18    13      8      9    10    12    14    17    19    23         26       31        34
Others                                                                  0     0      0     0      0     0       0         0         0
Total spending                                 288   320    315   340   374   411   452   498   549   605         668      737       776
I



Zhenjang Municipally: FinancialPr40Uon
(milon Yuan)
--------------~~~~~~~~~- -----Act--------¢ ual  -------------------- proctgd---
1988  1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Total revemus colleted                         239   265    291   324   361   398   438   483   533   587   648   714   787
Aggreatb rtenlon raiDo                       50.3%  55.0%   586.8%  68.8% 60.0% 60.0%  60.0% 60.0% 60.0% 60.0% 60.0% 60.0% 60.0%
Aggrepate ki rovenue                           120   146    171   191   216   239   263   290   320   352   389   428   472
Operaion                                        95   116    122   138   145   154   163   174   185   197   209   223   237
Urban maIntenance                             4     5       6     6      7     7      8     8      9     9    10    11    11
Cufture, Education, Pub.                     29    32      34    39    42    46    50    54    59    65    70    77    84
Adminisiallon                                15    18      19    21    22    23    24    26    27    28    30    31    33
SocialmeIst&fsubskdas                         3     3       3     4      4     4      4     4      5     5      5     5     6
Othts (eg. suppwt ngagrlculurs)              44    57      60    67    70    74    77    81    85    90    94    99   104
Capta                                           25    29      33    44    48    52    56    61    66    71    77    84    91
Capka4lurban constrtibn                      10    12      14    le    21    22    24    25    27    29    31    33    3S
Enterprsetok retform                          6     8       9    12    13    14    16    17    19    21    23    26    28
Research & deopwant                           2     2       2     3      3     3      4     4      5     5      5     6     7
Envkhntmental pttectlon                       6     6       5     6      7     8      a     9    10    11    12    14    15
Othems                                        1     2       3     4      4     4      4     5      5     5      S     6     6
Tota spending                                  120   145    155   180   192   205   219   234   250   268   286   306   328



-170 -                           ANNE  17
SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR
ENVIRONMAL PROTECTION
A.  NANCING SORCES FOR THE PROPOSED SEWEAGE COMIPONEM
Zh#sJag
1.           The Draiasge Charge. The Drainage Charge was introduced in 1987 to
contribute towards the maitenance and renovation of the existing combined drainage system.
The Drainage Charge is levied against all factories, commercial organizations and public
institutions on the basis of 80 percent of their anna consumption of metered mains water (being
considered to equate to the wastewater discharged from the premises). This charge has remained
at 8 fen/m  of water since Its incwtion in 1988. Total revenue from the charge is estimated to
be no less than Y2.0 mlion per anmwn and this is expected to increase by about 2.5 percent
per year in line with recent trends in yearly iunreas  in average water consumption. Funding
fiom this charge would help finance the proposed sewerage component.
2.           The charge is only based on wastewater discharge and does not take account of
wr quaty. Consideration is being given to modiffing the Drainage Charge in the future
to also include wastewater quality from certain sectors within the urban area. Consideration is
also being given to levying a charge of 8 fenlm3 on discharge of wastwater from residential
housholds. as part of a more comprehensive "user pays" approach to charging. Research on
this matter has indicated that this dharge would, on average, represent less than 1 percent of
act  family incomes althounz furnher investigation is planned to be undertaken on this matter
prior to It being considered for implemenaion.
3.           Pollution Levy. This charge is levied by the ZEPB and haW been in operation
since 1984. The charge is essenally collected for the purpose of improving industrial
_prrete  facilities and wastewater management by way of reumned finance form ZEPB to
selected industries. A smal component of the levy (about 20 percent) is also used for other
municipal works. Ihis charge is levied on the basis of exceedance of wastewater quality
stands (as specified in National Staldard GB897"88) for discharge to sewers. The levy is
calculated according to a national scale of charges for different pollutans in the industrial
wastewater and is estatd to have a cuet theoretical annual value of between Y 10-
15 million although the amount actually collected is about Y 5.0 million per annum. Of this
tot, it Is planned to allocate Y3.0 millon per anwnum to the proposed sewerage component.
Although the industrial waste maagement program is likely to reduce the total revenue from this
source, the planned annual contribution of Y 3.0 mIlion to the scheme will not be reduced by
the ZEPB.
4.           TehnIcal Renovation Fund. Entrprises and instiutions (including private
eatepris) a  requied to set aside a poron of the depreciation fund earmarked for techical



-171-                           ANNEX V1
transformatIon/rehabilitation and is largely intended to be used individually by the firms for the
and renovator of factory plant and equipment. Of the funds set aside in this
manner, 7 percent (i.e., approximately 0.49 percent of the value of fixed assets) Is collected for
the purpose of environmental protcion. The Zhenjiang Municipal Govement Intends to
implement the above collection between 1993-97. This charge would be collected by the Finan
Bureau of the Zhenjiang Municipal Goverment and allocated to the sewt !ge company for
financing of the proposed sewerage component. It is estimated this charge will raise
Y3.0 millIon per awn between 1993-97.
5.           Projed Construction Surcharge. A water consumption surcharge, known as
the project construction surcharge, Is to be levied by the sewerage company In addidon to the
drainage charge. Ihis charge is planned to be collected during the constructionperiod (1993-97)
by Increasing the presen potable water supply rate to all consumers by 3-5 fen ton to 25-27
fen/ton and charging 3 fen/ton for abstracted water (at 80 percent of consumption). This charge
is estimted to raise at least Y2.0 milon per anmun based on current water consumption with
anual increases of about 2.5 percent expected during the period 1993-97 based on recen
upward treds In watr consumption within the urban area.
6.           City Lottery. A lottery is planned to be conducted each year between 1993-97.
Tne aim of the lottery is primarily to promote public awareness of the water pollution problem
in the city and to encourage interest and participation in water pollution control works in and
aound the urban area. The details of the lottery have still to be determined but it is estimated
tha it will raise Y0.1 mlIon per annwn towards the scheme.
Wud
7.           The DraInage Charge. The Drainage Charge was introduced In 1984 to
supplement other sources of domestic funding for the Stage 1A Lucun Works. Originally levied
by the Wuxi Municipal Engineering Facility Adminision (W A), the Drainage Charge
became the responsibility of the Drainage Company after the levying section of the WMEFA
became part of the Company in 1985. The charge is payable by all factories and institutions
other hn joint ventures on the basis of their consumption of metered mains water, and of water
abstacted from canals and groundwater sources. The curent charge rate is Y 0.07/mn of
wastewater asessed as 90 percent of metered water consumption. Ihe same charge rate applies
to water abstract  from private ground wells, and is assessed on pumping capacity. Pumping
capacity is also used to assess water abstracted from canals, but a reduced charge rate of
Y 0.03/1n is levied. The Drainage Company has established good working arrangements with
the Wxtr Supply Company, and no problems are envisaged with gaining the information on
which to base either the Drainage Charge or the Treatment Charge component of the wastewater
tariff.
8.           The importance of the Drainage Charge is expected to diminish between 1993
and 2000 as factories become connected to the wastewater system and are no longer liable to pay
the charge. It is not intended to abolish the charge, but to continue levying it on cooling water
dicharges from factories (at a rate of Y 0.04/mn) and on public institutions (at a rate of
Y 0.03/IQ. Receipts from the charge are also expected to fall as a result of existing and
projected industri enterprises forming joint venur. Funds available to the project from the
chage are expected to be Y6 million per anmnm in 1993, falling to Y 4 million per ninum in
2001.



-172-                           ANNEX 17
9.           The TehrAcal Renovation Fund. National regulations provide for 7 percent
of the technical renovation funds to be set aside for purposes of environmental protection. Since
1987, the municipal p.-vernment decided to pool this fiun  from etprises for finaning
common wstwater treatment facilities, specifically for Lucun Sewerage Project, Stage I. The
collecton ftom 1988 to 1991 were Y 11.04 million, Y 13.0 million, Y 12.4 million and Y 12.8
million, respectively. Funds to be allocated by the municipal government to the project from
this source are expected to be Y million per anum. Use of funds from the technical renovation
fund will require ainua approval by the municipal government's budgetary allocation process.
Changabo
10.         Drainage Charge. Collection of this charge from the industrial and commercial
entities started in July 1, 1991. Revenues are estimated at Y 5 million per annum.
11.          Common Treatment Construction Surcharge. Presendy, the connectioncharge
is set at Y 350/ton. his charge is proposed to be renamed common treaument construction
surharge and increased to Y 1,000/ton. The municipal government wfll collect the common
reatment surcbarge from enterprises, commercial and institonal entities which will benefit
fiom the proposed project. During the project construction period, Y 7.5 million are expected
to be collected annully, totalling Y 30 million.
12.         Pollution Levy. Collection of this charge from 1988 to 1991 were Y 8.45
million, Y 8.83 million, Y 8.33 million and Y 12.39 million, respectively. Every year, Y 3
million will be allocated from the pollution levy to help finance the proposed project, totalling
Y 12 million in four years.
13.          Urban Construction ar4 Mainteance Tax. IThe base of this fee is production
or sales tax. The industrial and commercial enterprises are levied 7 percent of their production
or salo tax as Urban constuction and maintence tax. Revenues from this tax are 100 percent
retained by the municipal government. Ihe revenues from the period 1988 to 1991 were
Y 33.00 million, Y 34.78 mitlion, Y 36.97 million, and Y 37.41 million, respectively. Every
year, the municipal government uses part of this fund for public works in environment
protection, including water supply and sewerage projects. However, the amount varies from year
to year.
B. ADDMONAL SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR ENVIRONMENrAL INVES DN
14.          Water R urces Fee.  A water resources fee is paid by factories and
instdons for water abstacted from canals and groundwater.
15.          Three UtlUty Surcharge. ITree utlities are water, electricity and city public
transportadon. 10 percent of water price, 12 percent of electricity price and 8 percent of city
bus price are collected from industrial and commercial enterprise. The surcharge is used in
urban maintenance and construction, including environmental protection measures.
16.         The actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the four project cities are
attached.



Suzhod Nwicipality
Sources of Funds for Urban Construction and Environmental Protection
(million Yuan)
-----Acturalt .----------Projected                         ............................
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Totat revenue collected                    689.6  741.5 810.2 750.0 901.8 994.2 1096.1 1208.5 1332.3 1468.9 1619.5 1785.5 1968.5
Effective retention ratio (2)               32.0X 33.8X 39.02 43.02 39.02 39.02 39.02 39.0X 39.0X 39.02 39.0X 39.02 39.02
Aggregate local revenue                    220.5 252.9 319.0 324.0 351.7 387.7 427.5 471.3 519.6 572.9 631.6 696.3 767.7
Sources of funds                           105.8  127.5  137.7  117.8  136.2  151.1  165.5  181.3  198.7 217.9 239.0 262.3 287.8
...... ...........
Within-budget                             77.3  90.3  94.4  106.2  119.9  134.2 147.9  163.1  179.8  198.2 216.6 241.0 265.7
Urban construction and maintenance tax 56.0  67.9  72.0  81.   92.7  104.1  114.8  126.5  139.5  153.8  169.6 187.0 206.1
Pollution Levy                        16.7  17.8  18.0  20.0  22.3  24.5  27.1  29.8  32.9  36.3  40.0  44.1  48.6
Water resources tax                    4.6   4.6   4.4   4.5   S.0   S.5   6.1   6.7   7.4   8.Z   ..0   9.9  10.9
Ex-budget                                 10.5  11.5  11.6  11.6  12.3  12.9  13.6  14.2  14.9  15.7  16.5  17.3  18.2
Three uitiLy surcharge 1/             10.5  11.5  11.6  11.6  12.3  12.9  13.6  14.2  14.9  15.  16.5  17.3  18.2
Other sources or special arrangement      18.0  25.7  31.7   0.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Water drainage facility charge         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
7X of renovation funds                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Others 2                              18.0  25.7    32
Uses of funds                              105.8  12t.5  137.7 117.8  136.2  151.1  165.5  181.3  198.7 217.9 239.0 262.3 287.8
Within-budget                             95.3  116.0  126.1  106.2  119.9  134.2 147.9  163.1  179.8  198.2 218.6 241.0 265.7
Urban construction aed maintenance taA 76.8  93.2  99.8  81.7  92.7  104.1  114.8  126.5  139.5  153.8  169.6 187.0 206.1
Pollution Levy                        15.0  18.0  19.6  20.0  22.3  24.5  27.1  29.8  32.9  36.3  40.0  44.1  48.4
Water resources tax                    3.5   4.8   6.7   4.5   5.0   5.5   6.1   6.7   7.4   8.2   9.0   9.9  10.9
Ex-budget                                 10.5  11.5  11.6  11.6  12.3  12.9  13.6  14.2  14.9  15.7  16.5  17.3  18.2
Three uitily surcharge                10.5  11.5  11.6  11.6  12.3  12.9  13.6  14.2  14.9  15.7  16.5  17.3  18.2
Other sources or special arrangement       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Water drainage facility charge         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0)  0.0   0.0                             I
7X of renovation funds                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0



Wuxi Nunicipality
Sources of Funds for Urban Construction and Environuental Protection
(mitlion Yuan)
----Actural-t-...........   ------------------Projected    .................... .......
1988  t969  1990  199t   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  199?  1996  1999  2000
total revenue collected                    1070.0 1135.0 1163.0 1048.0 1166.6 1335.4 1S00.4 1685.7 1893.8 2127.7 2390.5 2685.7 3017.4
Effective retention ratio (1)                27.11  28.63  27.1X 32.4X 32.01 32.0X 32.01  32.0% 32.01 32.01  32.01 32.01  32.01
Aggregate local rewienu                     290.0 325.0 315.0 340.0 380.4 427.3 480.1  S39.4 606.0 680.9 765.0 659.4 965.6
Sources of funds                            91.2  9?.1  96.6  123.0  133.2  143.6 153.7 164.7 160.3  173.6  18S.1  204.1  221.7
....... ..............
Vithin-budget                              S6.8  S.0  61.1  69.6  78.7  88.2  97.2  107.2  118.2 130.3  143.6  158.4  174.6
Urban construction and maintenance tax 48.0  52.0  S2.0  S9.0  66.9  75.2  82.9  91.4  100.7 111.0  122.4  13S.0  148.8
Pollution Levy                          7.8   5.0   8.1   9.5  10.6  11.7  12.9  14.2  1S.6  17.2  19.0  20.9  23.1
Water resources tax                     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.4   1.5   1.7   1.8   2.0   2.2   2.5   2.7
Ex-budget                                  17.0  17.0  17.0  18.0  19.1  20.1  21.1  22.1  23.2  24.4  25.6  26.9  28.2
Three uitily surcharge 1/              17.0  17.0  17.0  18.0  19.1  20.1  21.1  22.1  23.2  24.4  25.6  26.9  28.2
Other sources or special arr  _ement       17.4  22.1  18.5  35.4  35.4  35.4  35.4  35.4  18.9  18.9  18.9  18.9  18.9
Water drainage facility charge          6.4   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1
7X of renovation fuds                  11.0  13.0  12.4  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8
Proposed seWage project surcharge         0     0      0    17    17    17    17    17
Others                                  0.0   3.0      0
Uses of funds 2/                            87.4  97.1  96.6  123.0  133.2  143.6  153.7  164.7 160.3  173.6  188.1  204.1  221.7
...... .......... 
Within-budget                              53.0  61.0  61.1  69.6   ".7  88.2  97.2  107.2  118.2  130.3  143.6  158.4  174.6
Urban construction and maintennce tax 41.0  54.0  52.0  59.0  66.9  75.2  82.9  91.4  100.7 111.0  122.4  135.0  148.8
Pollution Levy                         11.0   6.0   8.1   9.5  10.6  11.7  12.9  14.2  15.6  17.2  19.0  20.9  23.1
Water resources tax                     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.4   1.S   1.7   1.8   2.0   2.2   2.5   2.7
Ex-budget                                  17.0  17.0  17.0  18.0  19.1  20.1  21.1  22.1  23.2  24.4  25.6  26.9  28.2
Three uftily b... charge               17.0   7.0  17.0  18.0  19.1  20.1  21.1  22.1  23.2  24.4  2S.6  26.9  23.2
Other sources or special arrangement       17.4  19.1  18.5  35.4  35.4  35.4  35.4  35.4  18.9  18.9  18.9  18.9  18.9
water drainage facility charge          6.4   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1                           I
71 of renovation funds                 11.0  13.0  12.4  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8
Proposed sewa  project surcharge          0     0      0    17    17    17    17    17



Changahou Nunicipality
Sources of Funds for Urban Constrution & Enwirom ental Protection
(million Tuan)
------A Actual .---.-    --------------Projected    ---.--.-.--.-
1988  1989 1990 1991  1iM9  J993   1994  1995  1996  19W   1998  1999  2000
Total revemn  collected                  757.0 816.4 879.8 979.2 1089.8 1201.6 1324.7 1460.5 1610.2 1775.3 1957.2 2157.8 2379.0
Effective retention ratio (1)            28.9S 30.11 30.0X 30.0S 30.01 30.01 30.0S 30.0  30.01 30.0  30.01 30.01 30.01
Aggrgate locat reveme                    218.9 246.1 263.9 23.6 327.0 360.5 397.4 430.2 463.1 532.6 W.2 67.3 713.7
Sources of funcb                         60.7  68.5 63.5 73.9  100.3 10.8 117.3 126.7 136.9 148.2  160.5 156.1  171.1
...............
Within-budt                             4.5  49.0 50.4 60.1  67.7  75.5  83.3  91.8 101.2 111.6 123.0 135.6 149.5
Urbn construction and maintenance tax 33.0  34.8 37.0 37.4  42.4  47.7  52.o  57.9  63.9  70.4  77.7  85.6  94.4
Pottution Levy                       8.5   8.6  8.3  12.4  13.8  15.2  16.8  18.S  20.4  22.5  24.6  27.3  30.1
water risources tax                  4.1   S.4  S.1 10.3  11.5  12.7  13.9  1S.4  17.0  16.7  20.6  22.7  25.0                            4
Ex-budlet                               10.7  11.6 13.1  13.7  14.6  15.3  16.1  16.9  17.7  16.6  19.5  20.5  21.5
Three utility srcharge 1/           10.7  11.6 13.1  13.7  14.6  15.3  16.1  16.9  17.7  18.6  19.5  20.5  21.5
Other sources or special arranement      4.5   7.9  0.0  0.0  18.0  18.0  18.0  18.0  18.0  18.0  18.0   0.0   0.0
Water drainage facility charge                              10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   0.0   0.0
7S of renovation f* ds                                       8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   0.0   0.0
Others                               4.5   7.9
Uses of funds 2/                         60.7  68.5 62.6 73.9 100.3 108.8 117.3 126.7 136.9 148.2  160.5  1S6.1  171.1
...............
Within-budget                          50.0  56.8 49.5 60.1  67.7  75.5  83.3  91.8 101.2 111.6 123.0 135.6 149.5
Urban construction ad maintenance tax 37.4  39.2 37.9 37.4  42.4  47.7  52.6  S.9  63.9  70.4  77.7  85.6  94.4
Pollution Levy                       8.7  13.4  6.8  12.4  13.8  15.2  16.8  16.5  20.4  22.5  24.8  27.3  30.1
Water resources tax                  4.0   4.2  4.8  10.3  11.S  12.7  13.9  1S.4  17.0  18.7  20.6  22.7  25.0
Ex-budgt                                10.7  11.6 13.1  13.7  14.6  1S.3  16.1  16.9  17.7  18.6  19.5  20.5  21.5
Three utility surcharge 1/          10.7  11.6 13.1 13.7  14.6  1S.3  16.1  16.9  17.7  18.6  19.5  20.5  21.5
other sources or special arrangement    0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  16.0  18.0  16.0  18.0  16.0  18.0  18.0   0.0   C.0
Water drainage facility charge       0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   0.0   0.0
71 of renovation f ds                0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   0.0   0.0



Zhenjimil Nunicipality
Sources of Fhds for Urban Construction and Eawir_erntal Protection
(Yuan Nitlion)
--- -------  - ----------------- ---     ..-----.Actural .............    ----------------- Projected  ---------------------------
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999    2000
Total revnem  collected                     239.0 264.7 291.1  324.0 360.6 397.6 438.3 483.3 532.8 587.4 647.6 714.0   787.2
Effective retention ratio (X)                50.3%  55.02 58.8X 58.8X 60.g  60.02 60.OX 60.0X 60.02 60.02 60,0X 60.02   60.02
Agregate local revenue                      120.2  145.5  171.2  190.5 216.4 238.5  263.0 290.0 319.7 352.4 38B.6 428.4   47n.3
Sources of funds                             21.8  23.4  26.8  26.7  36.5  39.9  43.1  46.7  50.6  46.8  51.6  56.9    62.7
...............
Within-budet                               20.2  21.8  25.2  25.1  28.3  31.7  34.9  38.S  42.4  46.8  51.6  56.9    62.7
Urban construction and maintenance tax  14.2  15.3  19.4  18.5  21.0  23.6  26.0  28.7  31.6  34.8  38.4  42.3    46.7
Pollution Levy                          5.7   6.2   S.5   6.3   7.0  t.7J    8.5   9.4  10.4  11.4  12.6  13.9    1S.3
Water rescurces tax                     0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.7              0.7
Ex-budet                                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
Three utility surcharge 1/              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
Other sources or special arrangement        1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   8.2   8.2   8.2   8.2   8.2   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
Water drainage facility charge          1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
72 of renovation funds                  0.0   0.9   0.0   0.0   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
Proposed sewerag project surcharge        0     0      0      0      2      2     2      2      2      0     0      0        0
Others                                  0.0   0.0      0
Uses of funds 2/                             17.3  19.4  21.4  26.7  35.3  38.7  41.9  45.5  49.4  46.8   51.6  56.9    62.7
Within-budget                              15.7  17.6  19.8  25.1  28.3  31.7  34.9  38.5  42.4  46.8  51.6  56.9    62.7
Urban construetfon and maintenance tax  9.9  11.5  14.0  18.5  21.0  23.6  26.0  28.7  31.6  34.8  38.4  42.3    46.?
Pollution Levy                          5.5   6.0   5.5   6.3   7.0   7.7   8.5   9.4  10.4  11.4  12.6  13.9    15.3
Water resources tax                     0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   O.S   0.6   0.7              0.7
Ex-budget                                   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
Three utility surcharge                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
other sources or special arrane4ment        1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
water drainage facitity charge          1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
72 of renovation funds                  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0              0.0
Proposed sewerage project surcharge       0     0      0      0      2      2     2      2      2



- 177-                           ANEX 18
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS-MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE
COMPANIES
ASSUMPIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Wun SEEAGE COMPAY
1.           Inflation Rates. Domestic inflation rates used in the projections are 6 percent
per anum.
Income statement
2.           Average level of sewerage charge is based on minimum average tariff required
to comply with the financial performance covenants.
3.           The number of staff in 1992 is 167 and grdually increasa to 370 in 1997
thereafter. Wages, bonuses and welfare expenses is about Y 3,600 per person per year, based
on 1992 figure; and are adjusted with an escalation factor of 10 percent for 1993 to 1995 and
6 percent thereafter.
4.           Electricity cost is Y 0.32 per kWh in 1992, adjusted with an  scaation factor
of 10 percent from 1993 to 1995 and 6 percent thereafter.
5.           Depreciation is 4.5 percent on wastewater treatment plants and other fixed assets
and 2.5 percent on pump stations and pipework.
6.           Overhaul and maintenance expense are estimated at 1.7 percent and 1 percent
of all fixed assets value, respectively.
7.           Other expenses are assumed to be 10 percent of all other costs.
Balance Sheet
8.           Accounts receivable is esmated to be one month gross sales revenue and
inventory is estimated to be one month of chemicals and maintenance expenses. Accounts
payable are esfimated to be one month of operatg cost less depreciation.
9.           Government funds includes aUl government contributions, Including those
allocated for project financing.



- 178 -                          ANNEX i
Sources and Uses of FUnds
10.          Incremena depreciatior from fixed assets of the project will be 100 percent
available for debt service.
11.          Foreigacurrency loanof LucunIobtalnedfrom           CompanyofWest
Company totalled Y 10.1 million. Interest rate is 7 percent per amnum and repayment start in
1992 in equal semi-anmual amount for five years.
12.          World Bank loan is assumed to be 50 paecent of tota costs of the proposed
sewerage component (excluding land acquisition). Local countrpart  fding, including inerest
during construcdon, would be financed entrey by the municipal govemen in the form of
equity.
B. ZEIJIANG SzwERAGE  COMPANY
13.          InftIon Rates. Domestic inflation rates used in the projections are 6 prce
per anum.
Income Statement
14.          Average level of sewerage charge is based on minimum average tariff required
to comply with the financi performance covenants.
15.          Sales tax is 3.21 percent of sewer chatge and income tax is exempted for al
years.
16.          Current staff of the company is 126 in 1992 and will Increase grdually to 224
by 1998 at project completion. Cost per staff (production staf is curendy about Y 3,168 a year
and is expected to hInrease by 10 percent per year from 1993 to 1995 and 6 percent therafter.
17.          Electricity is Y 0.28 per kWh In 1992 and is assumed to escale at 10 percent
from 1993 to 1995 and then at 6 percent from 1996 on.
18.          Depreciation is 4.5 percent of origia fixed assets and new fixed assets from
project. Depreciation before November 1991 was taken on values carried in the books of the
public utility unit under the City Maiteace Depam. Overal expenses is 1.7 percent
of fixed assets and mantenanexpenses is 1 percent of fixed assets.
19.          Other expenses is assumed to escalate with projected local inflaion rates.
_lce Sheet
20.          Accounts receivable is esdmated to be one month of gross sales revenue and
inventory to be one month of the overha   and maItnn  expes. Accounts pyable is
esmated to be one month of operating cost less deprecation.
21.          Govement funds Iludes al govment co, including thse
aLo d for project financing.



-179 .                           ANNEX 18
Sources and Uses of Funds
22.          Incremental depreciation ftom fbed assets of the project will be 100 percent
available for debt service.
23.          World Bank loan is assumed to be 100 percent of foreign costs.  Loc
counerpart funding, including interest uuring construction, would be financed entirely by the
municipal government in the form of equity.
C. CHANGZEOU SEWEAGE COMNY
24.          Inflation rates. Domestic inflation rates used in the projections are 6 percent
per annum.
Income Statenent
25.          Average level of sewerage charge is based on minimum average tariff required
to comply with the financW perfrmance covenants.
26.          Sales tax i 3.5 percent of sewerage charge and income tax is exempteJ for all
years.
27.          The mumber of staff is 126 in 1992 and gradually increases to 300 in 1998.
Wages and bonuses are about Y 3,070 and welfare expenses are about Y 2,000 per person per
year, based on 199l figure and are escalated at 10 percent from 1993 to 1995 and at 6 prcent
fom 1996 and thereafter.
28.          Electricity cost at Y 0.35 per kWh in 1992 and energy cost is escalated at
10 percent from 1993 to l995 and then at 6 percet from 1996 on. Water fe and matetias use
are escalated with same rates.
29.          Depreciation rate is 4.5 percent on fixed assets and overul expense  is
calculated at 2.5 percent of fixed assets.
30.          Administrtve, maintenan  and other expenses are escalated with projected local
inflation rates.
Balance Sheet
31.          Accounts receivable is esmated to be one months sales revenue. Inventory is
estimated to be one month expenditures of chemical cost and m ance expenses. Accounts
payable is estimated to be one month opeatng cost less depre on chres while tax payable
is estimated to be one month tax payment.
32.          Other fixed assets wil not increase from 1991 onward.



-180 -                          ANNEX 1d
Soeoes and Use of Funds
33.          Incremena depreciation from fixed assets of the project will be 100 percen
avaiable for debt service. While 70 percent of depreciation from non-Wroject assets are to be
mitted to governmt anWly.
34.         hIterest during construction will be capitalized.
35.          World Bank loan is assumed to be 50 percent of total costs of the proposed
sewerage component (excluding land acquisition). Local counterpart funding, including interest
during constuction, would be financed entirely by the municipal government in the form of
equity.



Wuxl Drainage Company
Projected Income Statement
(Yuan Mllon)
1992     1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000
Volume of wastewater treated (milion to  7.3    12.8     18.3      18.3      30.5      36.6       36.5      54.8      63.9
Average tar (Yuan/m3)                   0.84     0.95     0.70      0.74      0.53      0.52       0.95      0.77      0.70
Revenues
Wastewater treatment charge             6.1    12.1      12.8      13.5      16.3       18.8      34.6      42.2      44.0
Common treatment construction charg'    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Drainage charge                         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Gross operating revenue               6.1     12.1     12.8      13.5      16.3      18.8      34.6       42.2      44.9
Less: Saes tax                        0.2      0.4      0.4       0.4       0.5       0.6        1.1       1.4       1.4
Net operating venue                  5.9    t1.7      12.4      13.0      15.7      18.2      33.5      40.9      43.5
Operating Costs
Salaries                                0.8      0.8      1.1       1.6       2.1       2.2        2.3       2.6       3.0
Lites                                   0.7      1.3      2.0       2.2       4.1       5.3        8.6       5.7       7.11
Chemicals                               0.0      0.0      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.2       0.2
Depreciation                            4.3      4.3      4.3       4.3       4.3       4.3        8.1       8.9       9.7
Overhaud expenses                       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0        3.7       4.2       4.8
Maintenane expenses                     1.2      1.3      1.4       1.6       1.7       1.8        3.4       4.2       S.0
Oth expenses                            0.9      1.0      1.1       1.1       1.4       1.5        2.2       2.4       2.7
Total Operating Costs                  9.8     10.7     12.0      12.8      15.6      17.1       25.5      28.3      32.4
Operating Income                       -3.8       1.0      0.4       0.3       0.1        1.1       8.0      12.6      11.0
Inlntest expaese                    0.8      0.6      0.5       0.3       0.1       0.0        8.2       6.4       6.2
Net Income                         -4.7      0.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.1       1.8       6.3       4.9
ncome tax
Net Income after Income tax            -4.7       0.4      0.0       0.0       0.0       1.1        1.8      6.3        4.9
Distributon of Net Income                                                                                                         I
Loan repayment                          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        1.8      0.3        4.9
Project financrng                       0.0      0.4      0.0       0.0       0.0       1.1       0.0       0.0        0.0
Operatin Ratio 1%)                      160       88       93        95         96        91        74        67        72
-  _- _  __----_  --------------------_    _     _  __--_  __------_ __----------------_-__-___ -__ -__ -__ -__-_ --_    __-_-__  __-_ _-_--_--_--__--_--_--_-



Wwd Drinage Company
Proected Balanc Sheets
(Yuan Mlio)
YearendedDecembe31                  1992    1993    1994       1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
ASSETS
Cah                                 2.1     4.4     6.7       8.9     12.2      17.5     92.8     29.8      36.5
Acountsl receIabb                   0.5     1.0      1.1      1.1      1.4       1.6      2.       3.        3.7
1w1_ey                              0.1     0.1     0.1       0.1      0.1       02       0.3      0.4       0.4
Totl curt ass                      2.7     5.       72      102      13.7      19.2     25.7     33.4      40.8
Fhmd Asset
Lad                                 4.8     6A      GA        7.1      73        7.4      75       7.6       7.
PleIKIspesandlpumps               1182    1182    1182      1162     118.2    1182      217.     248.      279A
Ls: decatlon                       4.3     8.s    12.8      17.1     21.3      25.6    83.7      426       52.3
Not FkdAss.tsInSerwe             113.9   109.7   105.4    101.1      969       92.     163.8    205.      227.2
ConstudlonfWok-in-Progres                   6.4    42.7      82.3    128.4    167'3      88.0     74.1      48.0
Total FbPd Aets                  118.7   1226    154.9    1906      2325      267.2    279.3    287.5    282.7
TOTAL ASS                           121.5   .28.1   162.8    200.8    246.2    286.5    305.1    321.0    323.3
LABILITIE8
Cunent Ubil_e
AoountsPayable                      0.5     0.j      0.6      0.7      09        1.1      1A       1.6       1.9
Tax paa                             0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1
CurmnsuutleoflongtWrmdebt           2.0     2.0      2.0      1.0      0.0       3.8      7.6      7.6       7.6
Toal CufentLabliNs                2.      2.6      2.7      1.7      1.0       4.9      9.2      9.4       9.7
Lon term Bob
Wodd Bank loan                      0.0     2.8    202       38.6     59.6      725      75.      75.8      70.6
Bankof China                        S.0     3.0      1.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     o0        0.0       0.0
Tot ln term liable                 5.0     5.8    212       38.6     59.6      72.5     75.0     75.8      70.6
Equqy
Qowmmentfund                      118.6   124.1   143.3    164.7    189.9    212.2    222.3    230.9    233.3
E _fpfund                         -4.7    -4.3    -4.3      -4.       -43      -3.2     -1.4       4.9       9.7
Toalequity                       114.0   119.8   139.0    160.4    185.6    209.0    220.9    235.8    243.1
Tdal lablIs and equky            121.5   128.1   162.8    200.8    2462       286.5    305.1    321.0    323.3
Cuwent RatoD (*h cumt m _aturdes)     1.1     2.1     2.9       5.8     13.9      3.9       2.8      3.6       42
Cuffed Rtb whout auret mautulles)     4.5     7.7     9.       12.0     12.3     15.6      14.7     17.1      18.1
Tdde Libas%ofTotalLab&Equly            6       7       15       20        25       27       28        27       25
Long-tn Lab as % o Long-tem Lbi        4       5       13       19       24        26       25        24       23
Rdu aon avage ausets                  -7        1       0        0        0         1        6         6        5



Wuxd Drainage Company
Projected Funds Flow Statements
(Yuank iLiOn)
1992    1993    1994      1995     1996     199       1996     1999     200
soures ofnd
_______________
Notlnwoom betone                   -3.8      1.0     0.4       0.3      0.1      1.1       &0      126       11.0
DWredon                              4.3     4.3     4.3       4.3      4.3      4.3       8.1      8.9      9.7
Csh frm opersta                     0.4     5.3      4.7      4.5      4.4       5.4    .16.1     21.6      20.7
Governmteqy:w bsidty                 4.7     M0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Techiu reoation dh                          5.4    19.2      21.4     25.2      222      10.2      86        2.4
Tod gov equt                       4.7     5.4    19.2      21.4     25.2      222      10.2      86        2.4
Total tangtM bormlun                        2.      17.4     18.4     21.0      167      10.0      8.6       2.4
Tolallo  tBn   onp                         22      17.4    1A4       21.0      16.      10i0                1 4
Total sourcd tmd                   .1    135      41.3     44.4     50.6      44.4     3"       36        25.5
Appadiond
LIm n U                                     7.4    35.1      37.2     421      33.6      20.2     17.1       4.8
bIhUUt_b "AuohIucblan                       0.6     1.6       2.7      4.1      5.4       0.0      0.0      0.0
Total cspb pmn                     00      .      36.6     39.9     462       39.0    23.2      17.1       4.8
hwMscIanw capoIal                  0Q1       0.4     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.1       1.0      0.5      0.0
Lang tm doM emk
_.es                                08A    0.6      o.6       0.3      0.1     o0         6.2      64       62
olpal repawment                     2.0     20      20        2.0      1.0      0.0       3.8      7.6      7.6
Totld dgtserlo                     28      2.6     25        23       1.1      0.0      10.0     14.0     13.
Toal _pcdon ofnd                   3.0    11.2    39.0      42.2     47.3    .39.1      31.2     31.6     18.6
hicasbh                              21      2.3     23        23       3.3      5.3       5.1      7.0      6.9
Debtsenia.ovoorage                   0.1      1.9     1.8       19        7       0.0       1.2      1.2      1.2



Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company
Projected Income Statements
(Milon Yuan)
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
als volume (milton)                       8.3     10.2      10.92    10.2     10.2     32.1     32.1     32.1      32.1
Minkmum avragetari                       0.34     0.39     0.40      0.47     0.62     0.98     0.94     1.05      1.03
Revenue
Seweage chage                            2.8      3.9      4.1       4.7      6.3     31.4     30.1     33.7      33.1
Draiage chage                            0.0      00       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Common treatment construcon charge o/    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Gros operaing revnue                    2.8      3.9      4.1       4.7      5.3     31.4     30.1     33.7      33.1
Less: sales tax                         0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2      0.2      1.1      1.1       1.2      1.2
Net operating revenue                  2.7      3.8       4.0      4.6      5.1     30.3     29.1      32.5     31.9
Operating Costs
Wages and bonus                          0.4      0.7       0.7      1.1      1.4      1.5      1.6       1.7      1.7
Wefare expenses                          0.3      0.4       0.4      0.6      0.8      0.9      0.9       1.0      1.0
Electicity                               0.3      0.3      0.4       0.4      0.4      5.4      5.7      6.0      6.4
Chemicals                                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.4      0.5      0.5       0.5 
Water fee                                0.0      0.        0.1      0.1      0.1      0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3
DepreaIon                                0.7      1.1       1.1      1.1      1.1      8.7      8.7      8.7       8.7
Overhaul expenses                        0.4      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6      4.8      4.8      4.8      4.8
Maintenance                              0.3      0.3      0.3       0.4      0.4      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
Administrative expenses                  0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3
Total Operating Costs                   2.6      3.a       4.0      4.6      5.1     23.2     23.7     24.2      24.7
Operating Income                          0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      7.1      5.4      8.3      7.2
Intee Expense                                                                           5.8      6.7      5.2      4.6
Net Income                          .0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.3    -0.2        3.1      2.6
Income tax
Net income                                0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      1.3    -0.2       3.1      2.6
Distribution of Net Income
Laon fepayment somnot Income            o.oo     0.00     0.00     0.00      Q.00     1.71    (025)     5.08     2.57 
Retained eawnings                       0.09     0.03     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Operating rao (%)                         97        99      100      100      100       77       81        74       77



Changzhou Urtan Sewerage Company
Projected Balance Sheets
(Milion Yuan)
Year ended December 31                       1992       1993      1994      e995      1996       1997      1996      1999      2000
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                         0.4       0.8       1.1        1.5       1.8      10.1      14.0      17?.       19.9
Accounts receivable                          0.2       0.3       0.3        0.4       0.4       2.6       2.5       2.8        2.8
iawentoey                                    0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1
Totalcurrentassets                          0.7       1.1       1.5        1.9       2.3      12.8      16.6      20.0      22.8
Fixed Assets
Land                                                   4.7       4.7        4.7       4.7       4.7       4.7       4.7        4.7
GrossFixedAssets                            16.6      18.6      1.         16.6      16.6     108.?     183.7     183.7      183.7
Less: Cumulalive depreciaton                0.7       1.9       3.0        4.2       5.3      14.0      22.7      31.3      40.0
NetFbtedAssatsnSeimce                      15.8      14.7      13.5      12.4       11.2     169.7     161.0     152.3      143.7
Construction Work-1n-Progress                0.0      14.6      71.2      124.2     164.5      .0.0
TotalFUxed Assets                          15.8      33.9      89.4     141.2      180.4     174.3     165.7     I57.0      148.3
TOTAL ASSETS                                  16.5      35.1      90.9      143.1     182.7     187.1     182.3     177.0      171.2
UASiU1IES
Current UabL es
Accounts Payable                             0.2       0.2       0.2        0.3       0.3       1.2       1.2        1.3       1.3
Tax payable                                  0.0       0.0       0,0        0.0       0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1
Current maturikies of long-term debt                            s.8                                       7.6       7.6        7.6
Total Current UabiaUles                     0.2       0.2       0.2        0.3       0.3       5.1       9.0       9.0        9.1
Long term Uabiliies
World Bank loan                                        6.9      34.2      58.8       76.4      76.4      72.5      64.9       57.3
Less current maturIties                                0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       3.8       7.6       7.6        7.6
Other loans
Total long term liabilites                            6.9      34.2      58.8      76.4       72.6      64.9      57.3      49.6
Equiy
GovernmeU,t fund                            16.2      27.8      56.3      83.9      105.8     108.0     107.2     106.4     105.6
Retaine     i - mnng                         0.1  0.1       0.1       0.1       0     .1        1.4       1.2       4.3       6.8
Total equty                                16.3      27.9      56.4      84.0      106.0     109.5     108.4     110.7     112.4
Total liablities and equky                 16.5      35.1      90.9     143.1     182.7      187.1     182.3     177.0     171.2
I.urrent Ratio (with current maturites)        4.1       4.9       6.0       6,3        6.6       2.5       1.9       22        2.5a
Current Ratio (without current maturIies)      4.1       4.9       6.0       6.3        6.6       9.8      12.4      14.4       15.9
TotalUabas%ofTotal Uab & Equity                 1         20        38        41        42        42         41        37        34
Long-term Ulab as % of long-term debt & equitb  0         20        38        41        42         40        37        34        31
Return on average total assets                 0.6       0.2       0.0       0.0        0.0       7.9       3.3       5.3        4.9
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-----------------------



Changhu U.ban Sewerage ron
(lilian Yuan)
1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997     1098      1999     2600
S0urces of fnd
Ndtlcom.bu lnrest                         01        0.0      M0        0.0      0O        7.1       54       8.3      7.2
D -r                                      0.7       1.1      II        1.1      1.1       a7       67        a7       8.7
Cah fran op _aUs                         0.8       1.2      1.1       1.2      1.1      1I8      14.1      17.0     159
Urn conr"uaon & maintance tax                      9.4     26.3      26.3     19.8       0.0
Pdhilon bwcharg                                    3.0      3.0        0       3.0       &0
Total governmet .y contrbuton                    12.4      2.3      28.3      22.8     3a
Long tem -w*
Wbdd Bankban                                       6.9      27.3     24.6     17.6      ' 0.0
ToW lng teem bonrAngs                             6.9      27.3     24.6     17.8       0.0
Total soures of ud                      0.8      20.5      57.8     54.1     41.5      18.8     14.1      17.0     159
Application of fund
Prposed project                                   18.5     64.6      49.2     35.2       2.6
nterest dwt   ontueotn                             0.8       20       3.8      5.2       0.0
TOW capital _nu                                  19.3      56.8     52.9     40.4       2.6
lncrease/decreseln wodd*gcapia            0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.3    -0.1       0.2      -0.1
LWng term debt service
Inrest                                                                                   5.8      5.7       5.2      4.6
Pdndpal repayment                                                                                 3.8       7.       7.6
Total debt service                                                                      5.8      9.5      12.9     12.3
Rmtance to Govnment (0.7 of deprec fr     0.5       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8
odginal txed assets)1/
Total appliaon of fund                 0.62     20.11    57.41     63.74    41.16     10.50    10.14    1&91      13.00
Wdec In cash                              0.22      0.34     0.34      0.34     0.34      &27      3.94      3.06     2.88
Debt servIce coverage                                                                      .5       1.4       1.2      1.2



Zhenjang Drainage Cornpany
Projected Income Statements
(Yuan millon)
1992     1993     1994     1996     1996     1997     1998     1989     2000
Dainage volune chargd nUI ton)                72.6     74.2     756      77.6     79.3     81.1     82.9      4.8     86.7
Minimum average tail (YuanAn ton)            0.03      0.03     0.03     0,05     0.1 S    0.15     0.37     0.38     0.38
Revenue
Drainage ch                                   0.0      0.0      0.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
ndl & comn. connecion charge                  0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    o0
Reldendal dstdct connecdon charge             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Sewer charge                                 2.3      2.3      2.4       4.0     12.3     12.1     30.9     32S      32.7
Total gross revenue                         2.3      2.3      2.4      4.0     12.3     12.1     30.9     32.5     32.7
Less: sales tax                             0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.4      0.4      1.0      1.0      1.0
Notoperatgrevenue                          2.2      2.2      2.3      3.9     11.9      1.7     29.9     31.5     31.7
Operatng Costs
Eneg                                          0.1      0.1     0.1       1.3      2.8      3.0      62       6.5      6.9
Sabaesforproduction woe s                    0.4      0.5      0.6       0.6     0.9       1.0      1.2      1.3      1.3
Staff wefare expenses                        0.2       0.2     0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.4
Deprecation0 0.8                                       0.       0.8      0.8      45       4.5      8.3      8.3      8.3
Ovwhaul expenses                             0.3       0.3     0.3       0.3      1.7      1.7      3.1      3.1      3.1
Mantennce expenses                           0.2       0.2     0.2       0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
Othr expenses                                 0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3      1.0      1.1      1.9      2.0      2.0
Ttal Operating Costs                         2.1      2.2      2.3      3.9     11.4     11.8     21.3     21.      22.4
Operaing Income                               0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.5      0.0      8.6      9.7      9.3
Intrest Expense                                                                                    6.2      5.8      5.1
Net Irne                                     0.1      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.5      0.0      2.4      3.9      42
Incme tax
Notlnco    aftrincomntax                      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      O.S      0.0       2.4      3.9      4.2
Distrudon of net Income
Loan repayment from net income               0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    -0.04     0.00     0.92     0.92
Retained earnings                           0.10      0.01    0.00      0.01     0.50     0.00     2.37     3.01     3.25
Operatng Ratio (%)                             95      100      100      100       96      100       71       69       71
__________________________ -_____ ____________________ ---------_ _



Zhenjiang Drainage Company
Projected Balance Sheets
(Yuan million)
Yearf nde Decenber 31                                1992      199S       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1990       2000
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                                                0.8        1.3       1.3        1.3       1.3        1.3       6.5       102       14.3
Accounts receiwabe                                  0.2       0.2        0.2        0.3       1.0        1.0       2.6        2.7       2.7
short-term irNestments
Inventory                                           0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.2        0.2       0.3        0.3       0.3
Ptepaid expenses
Total currert assets                               1.0       1.5        1.8        t.7       2.5       2.5        9.4      13.2       17.3
Fixed Assets
Land                                                          0.3        1.2        4.6       6.6       6.6        7.3       7.3        7.3
Gross Fixed Assets                                 17.1      17.1       17.1      17.1      100.5     100.5      183.9      183.9     183.9
Less cumulaive deprec                              4.6       5.4        6.2       7.0       11.5  *   16.0       24.3      32.6       40.8
Net Fixed Assets h Sewice                         12.5      11.7       10.9       10.2      89.0      84.5      159.6      151.4     143.1
Cotnuction Work-in-Progress                                   14.5      74.4      119.1      65.3      84.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Fixed Assets                                12.5      26.5       86.5     133.9      160.9     175.2      166.9     158.7      150.4
00
Total assets                                     13.4      28.0       86.0     135.5      163.4     177.7      176.3     171.9      167.7             oo
Liabilties
Cuttent Liabilities
Ac¢ounts Payable                                    0.1        0.1       0.1        0.3       0.5        0.6       1.1        1.1       1.2
Tax payable
Current maturities ot long-term debt                                                                     4.2       8.4        8.4       &4
Total Current Liabiiities                          0.1       0.1        0.1        0.3       0.6       4.8        9.5        9.8       9.6
Long term liabilitles
Wofld Bank lan                                                 9.0      49.1       69.0      B0.1      80.1       71.6       63.2      54.8
Total long term liabilities                       0.0       9.0       49.1      69.0       80.1      80.1       71.6      63.2       54.8
Equity
Government tund                                    13.2      18.8       38.6      66.2       82.1      92.2       92.2      92.2       92.2
Retained earnings                                   0.1       0.1  .    0.1        0.1        0.6       0.6        2.9       6.9       11.0
Total equity                                      13.3      18.9       38.8      66.3       82.7      92.8       95.2      99.1      103.3
Total labilities and equity                      13.4      28.0       88.0     135.5     163.4      177.7      176.3     171.9      167.7
Current Ratio (with current maturities)               9.0       12.9      11.9        6.5       4.4       0.5       0.99        1.4       1.8
Current atio (wthout current maturities)              9.0       12.9      11.9        6.6       4.4       4.1       8.68       11.8      14.7
Total Liab as % of Total Liab & Equity                  1        32         56        51        49         48         46        42         38
Long term iab as % long term iab & equity              0         32         56        51        49         46         43        39         35
Retwn on average total assets                         0.8        0.1       0.0        0.1       1.0      -0.1        7.1        82        6.3
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - ---- - - - -- - - - - --- - _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______



Zhenjlang Dranage Company
Projected Funds Flow Statements
(Yuan mullin)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__------------------------
Year ended December 31                           1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000
Sources of und
_______________
Cash frn operations
Net incme beabreitres                           0.10      0.01     0.00      0.01      0.50    -0.04      8.61      9.70     9.30
Depreciton                                      0.77      0.77     0.77      0.77      4.52     4.52      828       8.28      828
Total cash from operatons                      0.87      0.78     0.77      0.78      5.02     4.48     16.89     17.98     17.57
Govemrnent equtky contdbutlon
Polluton lvy charge                                       2.50     3.00      3.00      3.00     2.50
Technical renovation charge (7% of dapr)                  3.00     3.00      3.00      3.00     3.00
ciy itry                                                  0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10
Urban construction & maintenance tax                      0.00    13.71     21.41      9.88     4.52
Total gVt equity contdbudon                              5.60    19.81     27.51     15.98     10.12
Long teim borrowings
Wotd Bank loan                                            8.98     40.16    19.88     11.10      4.15
Total long tenn borroWngs                                8.98    40.16     19.88     11.10     4.15
Total sources of fund                         0.87     15.36    60.74     48.17     32.10     18.75    16.89     17.98     17.57
Application of fund
Capitl expeniture
Proposed project                                         13.87    58.12     43.48     25.88     12.53
Interest duTng constrution                                0.94     2.62      4.68      5.74     6.28
Total capial expendittre                                14.81    60.74     48.16     31.60     18.79
Inc/dec in working capital                       0.10     0.01      0.00      0.01      0.50    -0.04      1.20      0.10    -0.03
Long term debt sevice
Irnerest                                                                                                  6.24      5.76     5.12
Ptincipalrepaymert                                                                                       44.d       8.43     8.43
Total debt seice                                                                                        10.48     14.19     13.55
Total appcation of fund                       0.10     14.82    60.74     48.17    32.10     18.75     11.66     14.29     13.52
Incidec in cash                                  0.77     0.54      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      5.23     3.69      4.05
Debt servce coverage                                                                                        1.2       1.2       1.2



Zhonjiang Water Supply and Drainage General Ccnmpany
Projected kncone Statements
(Yuan million)
1992     1993      1994     1996      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000
Dranage vodum charged (a tson)                 72.60     74.22    75.88     77.59     79.33    81.11     82.93    84.79     86.70
Seifaveragetuff(Yuanwton)                       0.03      0.03     0.03      0.05      0.15     0.15      0.37     0.38      0.38
WaterSupply voume (a ton)                      65.20     70.04     74.94    80.19    86.14     92.53     99.40    106.79    114.72
Wat averap  iff (Yuanon)                        0.24      0.24     0.24      0.30      0.30   . 0.33      0.33     0.33      0.33
Suer charge                                     2.3       2.3      2.4       4.0      12.3     12.1      30.9     32.5      32.7
Watarsupply charge                             t5.7      16.9      1&O      23.8      25.5     27.4      33.0     35.4      38.0
Others                                          0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.4       0.4
Total grass revenue                          18.1      19.3     20.7      28.0     38.1      39.8      64.2     68.3      71.1
Lss: sales tax                                0.6       0.6      0.7       0.9      t.2       1.3       21       2.2       23
Net opeaing revenue                         17.6      1a.7     20.0      27.1     36.8      38.5      621      66.1      68.8
Opeating Costs
Energy                                          4.5       5.1      5.7       7.6     10.1      11.5      16.1     16.0      20.3
Maibls                                          0.8       0.9      1.0       1.1       1.2      1.4       1.6      1.6       2.0
Salazesforpro4cLionwo*aers                      0.8       0.9      1.1       1.3       1.5      1.6       1.9      2.0       2.2
Wottwhop  pmense                                0.5       0.6      0.6       0.7       0.8      0.9       0.9      1.0       1.1
Staflweare e _enses                             0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.3      0.3       0.4
DepecIaiaon                                     1.3       1.4      1.5       1.9      6.1       6.6      10.8     10.9      10.9
OCerhad  expenses                               1.0       1.1      1.2       2.6      3.8       4.s       6.5      6.6       67
Miantenance e _enses                            0.2       0.2      0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3
Piping and dstb  on malnt expense               1.8       1.9      2.1       2.4      2.8       3.1       3.5      3.6       3.7
Watw pumping expenses                           0.3       0.3       0.3      0.4       0.4      0.5       0.6      0.6       0.7
Admistratie and management expense              1.5       1.7      1.9       2.1       2.4      2.7       3.0      3.3       3.6
Other expenses                                  1.0       1.0      1.1       1.5      2.9       3.0       4.8      4.9       5.1
Totd Opewang Costs                            13.8      15.3      16.9     22.1      32.2     35.9      49.8     53.1      56.9
Opeatng Ikm"e                                    3.7       3.4      3.1       5.0      4.6       2.6      123      129       11.9
Intest Expense                                                                                           6.2       5.8       5.1
Inme before hnme tax                             3.7       3.4      3.1       5.0      4.6       2.6      6.1       7.2       .7
Net iwome                                        3.7       3.4      3.1       5.0      4.6       2.6      6.1       7.2       6.7
CoPeraing Rato (%)                                76       79        82       79        85       90        78        78       80
___  ___________     ------------__  ---------------__  -------_  ------ - ------ - -------__  ----___- -- __-- - -_______



Zhieniang Watw Supply and Drainae Genwd Company
Poeted    nce Sheas
(Yuan nifion)
YVowended Decomb.r31                              1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
----------------------------------.----------------------------------__------__----------------------------
AneA
Cn Assets
Currert Asseds
Cash                                             10.4       8.3       5.4       5.6      3.9        1.9      4.5       6.7        5.6
Accownts tecalvable                              0.4       0.5        0.5       0.7       1.4       I.5      3.1       3.3       3.3
shaet-tnn Invetdmens                              1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0
nvwetory                                         0.6        0.7      0.7       0.7       0.8       0.9        i.0      1.1        1.1
Prepald expense
Totd cumaentssus                                12.4      10.4      7.5       8.0       7.1       5.2       9.8      12.0      14.1
Fixed Asets
Land                                                      0Q9         1.2      4.8       6.6       6.6       7.3       7.3       7.3
Graes Fixed Assts                               64.9      69.9       75.0     951       196l.    218.6    322.1    327.1       332.2
Les: urmuath deprec                            12.0       13.3      14.6     16.?      22.6      29.4      40.2      51.0      62.0
Net Fied Assets In ferdca                      52.9       56.6      60.2      78.3     1757      189.2 *   281.9    276.1     270.2
Cenulrcdon Weck-In-Progress                                14.5      74.4     119.1     86.3      04.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Totd Fxed Asset                                52.9      71.4      135.7    202.0    247.8    279.9    269.2        23.4    27.5
Secle Fund & Ohrausses                             2.3        2.3       2.3       2.3      2.3       2.3        2.3      2.3       2.3
Toka assos                                    67.7      64.1      145.6    212.3    25?.0      287.4     301.2    297.8    293.9
UsbUes
CurrenL Ubilities
Accours Paabe                                    4.0       4.0       4.0       4.2       4.5       4.5       5.0       5.0       5.1
Tax payable                                      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
Curnt taritles oftong-twm drbt                    1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0      5.3        8.4      6.4        8.4
TotW Curnt ablllbes                             5.1       5.1       5.1       5.3       5.6       10.0     13.5      13.6      13.6
Long term liabilities
Wortd Bank loan                                            0.0      49.1      69.0      80.1      80.1      71.6      63.2      54.8
Olhn long-termloans                              5.1       4.1       3.1       2.1       1.1
Tollong termllabilities                       5.1      13.1      52.3      71.2      81.2      80.1      71.6      63.2      54.8
Equity
Govrnmenat lund                                 53.9      64.0      66.1     134.6    169.0    t97.2       214.8    217.2    219.6
Reaind a,ringsaspecial lund                      3.5       1.9       0.0      1.31       1.2       0.2       1.3       3.7       5.9I
ToMd equity                                    57.4      65.9      66.1     135.9    170.2      197.4    216.0    221.0    225.5
Total Nabt  and equily                        67.7      84.1     145.6    212.3    257.0    287.4   391.2    297.6    293.9                               I
Cure,nt RFato (with current matudies)              2.4       2.0        1.5      1.5       1.3       0.5       0.7       0.9        1.0
Curet rato (without current matures)               3.0       2.5        1.8      1.9       1.6       1.1        1.9      2.3       2.7
Total Lab as % of Total Uab & Equity              15%       22%       39%       36%       34%       31%       26%       26%       23%
Long term lab as % ong term flab & equity          86%      17%       37%       34%       3292      29%       25%       22%       20%
----------------------------------.----------------------------------__------__----------------------------



Zhenpang Water S3ply and Draiae Genera Company
Pfojectd Funds Flow Statmets
(Yuan milon)
Yeawended December 31                            1992     1993      1994      1985      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000
8ouces of und
_______________
Casht*m -ofoons
Notiroomebeforelnterest                          3.7       3.4      3.1       5.0       4.8      2.6      12.3      12.9      11.9
D      _recai                                    1.3       1.4       1.5      1.9       6.1       6.6     10.8      10.9      10.9
Specialnd a      nppopratIn                                3.       3.9       6.4       6.8      82        9.7      10.1      10.4
Totl cash fm opratIons                          5.0       8.3       8.4     12.3      17.5      17.4     32.8      33.8      33.3
Govrnent equity contribution
Pollution ly charge                                        2.5      3.0       3D        3.0       2.5
Tecic rnvatn charge (7% of depr)                           3.0   9 .   9 .0             3.0   9 .0
aCty lery                                                  0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
UJban constrction & mainbtnance tax                        0.0      13.7     21.4       9.9       4.5
Nowwatr facly                                              4.4      4.4      18.9      18.5      18.0     17.6       2.5       2A
Totalgovt equtycontribution                              10.0      24.a     48.4      34.5      28.2     17.6       2.5       2.4
Lon term borrowings
Wodld Sank loan                                            9.0     40.2      19.9      11.1       4.2
Totallng tm boowings                                      9.0      40.2     19.9      11.1       4.2
Total sources of fund                          5.0      27.3      72.8     78.6      63.1      49.7     60.4      36.3      35.6
Applicaton of und
Capital expenditure
Proposd proect                                            13.9     58.1      43.5      25.9      12.5
Intrest dur  construction                                  0.9      2.6       4.7       5.7       6.3
Othr capiad Iestment                                       5.1      5.1      20.1      20.1      20.1     20.1       5.1       5.1
Tot capilal e   _niue                                    19.9      65.8     66.2      51.7      38.8     20.1       S.1       5.1
Incdc In workig captal                            0.1       0.0       0.0      0.1       0.6       0.0      1.3       0.2       0.1
Special  d expenditures                                     7.8                8.4      10.9      11.1     14.0      14.1      14.4
Long term debt serice
ltrest                                                                                                     6.2       5.8       6.1
Pricipal repayment                                         1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       5.3       8.4       8.4
Total debt seIce                                          1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0     11.6      14.2      13.6
income tax & prolit temitance                              0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7
Total applicaton of fd                         0.1      29.4     75.7      78.4      64.8      51.7     47.7      34.2      33.7
hech incash                                       0.8     -2.1      -2.9       0.2     -1.7      -2.0       2.7       2.2       1.9
Se&inn cash                                                10.4      8.3       5.4       5.6      3.9       1.9       4.5       6.7
Ending cash                                      10.4       8.3      5.4       5.6       3.9       1.9      4.5       6.7       8.
Debt svice coverage                                         4.8      4.6       6.9      10.8       9.2      2.0       1.7       1.7
---------------------------------------------------------------------__--_--___------------------_-------_



- 193 -                         ANNEX 19
SEWERAGE TARIFF STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Obj ctives
1.           The objective of the study is to design a rational sewerage tariffmre e (both in
the ievels and the structure), taking into account the following broad objectives:
(a)    naclaI Viablity of the Sewerage Company. The minimum average tariff
should be set at such a level that the operating revenues of th, sewerage
company are sufficient to cover the fiull costs (mcluding depreciation), debt
service (both interest expense and principal repayments), aMd as far as
practicable, help finance a portion of the sewerage company's future investment;
(b)    Economic Effidency. The promotion of efficient allocation of resources by
g that tariff setting Is based on economic costs. By internalizing the cost
of services provided, the user's consumption behaviors will Le influenced
accordingly, helping to achieve eve. ually an economic balance between
consumption and service capacity.
(c)    Environmental Objeive. The tariff should be conducive to reduction of
water pollution.
(d)    Sodal objecive. Provide consumers of all social categories with the wastewater
service they need at a price they can afford, discourage overuse and wastage;
and
2.           AdmInistrtve objective. The need to ensure that any tariffrecmmendations
are practical (including consideration for metering requirements), transparent (comprehensible
and acceptable to customers), efficient and simple to adminiter.
Scope of Work
3.           The main tasks of the study are expected to include, inter alia, the following:
Gathering and Review of the Rdevant Data
(a)    population estimaes within the service area for the purpose of esdmating
demands;



-194-                            AN=X 12
*     (b)    wae demad projetons by te muicipal wat  supply cop   and other
sources Of any) to ardve at reliable esmates for frwt  sewage flows, with
such flow foea to be appropriately clasifed according to categories of
consumes;
(c)    cost esimes and timing of the sewerag  cotpn's capital inete
program, and analysis of the operat  coss accring to the main caores
(e.g., power, maters, maintenance, salies, etc.) to arve at reliable
forecasts; and
(d)    estmates of major industrianterpises' costs rc-ated to: (i) preament of
wastewater prior to discharge to the municW  sewer systems; and IQ) full
wastewaer treatment to comply with national  oca) standads for dircte
discharge to water bodies.
Analysis of Different Options for Tariff Str e and LIveh
Tariff Stuctuwe options
(a)    Volumetric Tarffs. Cbarges reating to the volume of water consumed or
wastewate discaged by users.
(b)   Fht-Rate Taifts. Fixed cha    which are unlated to the volume of watr
or sewage geed. Te fied charges could be levied on some characteristics
of the users (fr example, related  the size of the water meter, the numbet of
water using appliances, the  p, size and rteable vaue of the property), or
simply a sandard chage per connection.
(e)    Twot Tari. A combinton of the above two forms, the first part
comprising a fla rate, and the second part in the form of a volumetric cre.
In principle, tis method should provide for the recovery of the fixed costs of
providing the services thoh   the Inta fixed compo_nt of the tariff,  st
the second part can be used to reover the vaiable costs of sewage opeatios.
(d)    DIt!efmtal Rates. Dferet carges for drrm tpes of con        ffe  (e.g.,
industial, commrcial, Ititiona, and residel users). Under the use pays
principle, the cost of providing a senice doud, on economic efficieny and
equity grounds, be borne by Its users. However, dds needs to be balanced with
the socW objecties of consume' abiity to pay. Thus, It may be appropriate
to pracd coss-subsidan be   the   r       a     d      sential users.
Witin th broad category of industial users, tafs cold be db ai based on qualiy of
tswsevter-the charges may be assessed relating to the ma of the dicharged pollutants (such
as BOD level, suspxded solid, grease, etc.) orthe cages may be relaed to the pollutat
(     Prose Block Taifs. The lowest block c              n  is set at a rate
afforale by low-income users, with subsequet blocs ched at iDncasng



-195 -                           A19
rates to encourage water consevaion, discourage wastag and reduce wat
pollution impact.
Tai     els
(a)    lncdal Objeetve. Prepare financial analyzes of the sewerage company,
includingpreparation official recastu (ojected income staements, balance
sheets and cash flow statements) and calculation of key finacial indicators
(including debt service coverage raios, total liabilities/equity ratos, self-
financig ratios) lised on altenative taff strucures noted above;
(b)    Econmic Obj3tiive. Prepare esmates of long run economic costs for the
provision of sewerage services, both on a marginal cost basis and on an average
Incrmental cost basis; and assess the exte  the eoonomic objective can be
achieved under alternative tariff strucre noted above;
(c)    EnvIhonmetal Objectve.  Assess the consitency between the levels of
sewerage tariff and pollution levy in providing financial incentives for industrial
enterprises to control water pollution in a cost-effective manner. The level of
pollution levy should be higher than: O) the ful treatment costs of individual
eerpses; and (i) the preteatment costs and sewerage charges to the
enterprises. In this connection, it is essential for  pre ves of the local
EPB to participate in the sewerage tariff study and tbo current .%,vels of pollution
levy should be reaessd and adjusted as appropriate; and
(d)    Socdal Obj3ective Assess the affordability of different levels of tuarffs, including
such indicators as the peentage of sewerage tariffs to the lower income group
and average income grup of residenta users.
ons for Taiff Regime
4.           Based on the above analyses, the study would recommend an appropriate
seweage tariff regime which would balance the various objecdves noted above.
will be made on the meas    to be taken In the short and medium term to
esre a smooth and efficient tnsition to optimum pricing over the longer run.
Refrenc Materials
S.           Ihe following documents are useful reference materis for specific examples of
sewerage tariff regimes in selected cites outside of China, and for explanation of the concepts
behind various options for tariff levels and structure.
(a)    Tariff sudy under Shanghai Sewerage Project (Coopers and Lybrand, Aprfl 30,
1992);
(b)    Wuxi Sewerage Master Plan (Waton Hawksley, June 1992);
(c) Zhenjliang Water Pollution Control Study (Watson Hawksley, June 1992); and
(d)    Changzhou Water Quality Mate Plan (Sinclair Knh. Jamuary 1992).



* 196-                             M      2
FiNANCIAL PROJECTIONS-ELAZARDOUS MATERILAL
STORAGE AMI TRADING COMPANY
1.           'he volume of loading and unloading of hazardous materials is projected to be
150,00) tons per annum in 1995 whern the project would be commissioned. From 1996-98, this
volume is assumed to increae by 6 percent per annm.a Thereafter, it is assmed to stabilize
at the 1998 level of 178,600 tons per anumir.
2.           The volume of transshipment, is estimated at 50,000 toti,/year with an averge
strorge period of 7 days.
3.           Y 3/ton/day for storage and Y 30/ton for loading and unloading of hazardous
materials.
4.           The base costs (1992 prices) of electricity are estimated at Y 0.36/kWh, water
at Y O4/ton an4coal at Y200/ton. Annual escalationIs assumed to bethe same as local
inLation (6 percent per annum).
S.           Depreciation rate is assumed to be 6 percent.
6.           World Bank loan Is assumed to be $2 million. In addition, borrowing from. the
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) are assumed to be Y 4 million, with matuit of
9 years, Including 2 years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.46 percen per annum.
7.           Income tax is assumed to be 55 percent.
8.           Average collection period is assumed to be 30 days.



- 197 -                                  AN.20
Hazardu Ibtaried Storu  & TrawdIo COuv
............................... .......................................... ^. ,
Projected Inem Statenn.
(HIS Thousan)
19ff      1996      1997      199       1999      2000
........... ....................................................
Sales Revmn                       7,48      8,21#     9,175    10,166    10,776    11,423
te": Sales Tax                   M2        290       321       356       37         400
met sales                         7,221     7.993     8,854     9,810    10,3     11,023
Cost of Goodc sold                3,014     3.246    3.567      3,928     4,216     4,535
of Which:Variabt* Cost            730       809       896       994     1,054     1,117
Depreciation                      2,182     2,190    2,271      2,365     2,415     2,475
SeLlitn Expns                        75        83        92       102       10       114
Other expeme                          0         0         0         0         0         0
operating Itme                    1,950     2,474     2.924    3,416      3,460     3.898
Non-operating Inoom                   0         0         0         0         0         0
Non-operating Expns                   0         0         0         0         0         0
Of Which: Pensln for Retfrea         0         0         0         0         0         0
Fnancial Charges
Vorld Bank                      89an      897       89?       852       763       673
PCBC                            108       392       321       249       178       107
Other 0Dm. Credit                 0         0
Working Cap. Loan                47        49        51        51        51        51
Su*totat                        1,352     1,338     1,269     1,153       992       831
mrQns Before  Tax                  598      1,136     1,655     2,263     2,667     3,067
Income Tax                         329       625        910     1,244     1,467     1,687
Adjusting tax                         0         0         0         0         0         0
Net Income                          269       511       745     1.018     1.200     1,380
.     ....... ............... _._._............ ................ ............. ....................... .
Ratkls
Gross Profit Nargin               0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.4       0.4
Pretax Incomel/et Sale.           0.1       0.1       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.3
Net Incme/lNlt Sales              0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
Operating Ratio                   0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4



- 198 -                                  AM    2
HtrIao*  Raterilt Storp & Trading C*Ny
................. ............................... 
Projected Batle  Shet
.......................
(mS  Thaiswe)
rnX      iM        19S       iws       i9w       1989       19"      z200
*- .. . ..---_.......-.---................. ............................. ...................................................................  
AETS
Current Aets
Cah a *er                                         1.442     2,472      3,394    3,676      4,019     4,408
Securities                                            0          0         0         0         0         0
AccIUnt Receivabes                                   508       531       555       s80       580        80
Other Recivable                                       0          0         0         0         0         0
Inventory                                            72         7?        84        91        96       102
Raw Nateriat                                         0          0         0         0         0         0
Work In Process                                     S2         56        62        68        73        79
Ffnished Goods                                      20        21         22        22        23        23
Other Current Asse                                     0         0         0         0         0         0
~~~~~~.... .... .. .. ........ ......    .......... - ......   
Total Current Assets                               2.         30        4,        4,346     4,95      5.089
Fixed Assts
Grs Afssets                                      34,460    346,89    35,939    37,494    38,339    39,343
tess: Depreciation                               2.182     4,373     6,644      9,008    11,424    13,899
......;    ;...... .   .      .. . . . .... ......    ................ ..... ...
Net Fixed Assets                                  32,278    30,21?    29,29S    2S,486    26,915    25S446
Constwction WIP                15,687   28.826       129      1,350    155S        845     1.004     1,163
Total Assets                     15,687  28,826    34,430    34,646    34,882    33,67?   32,615    31,696
............ .................. .........    ......  .........    ...... .........    ......    ........ ...
LIMILITIES & EWUITY
Curre.t Liabilities
Accotat Payablte                                      S0        52        54        57        57        ST
Other Payable                                         0          0         0         0         0         0
Sort-term Loam                                      546        569       594       594       594       594
L-T Loan Due ln 12 mon                    842      8s2        842      2,023     2,023     2,023     2,023
Other Current Lie
_........ ...._............. ........   ...... .........    ...... .........    ...... .........    ......
Total Current Liab                         842     1,438      1.463     2,671     2,673     2,673     2,673
Lon-term Loan
world Bank                     4,870   11.807    11,807    11,807    10,626      9,446     8,265     7,084
Dmestic Credits                3,012    3,743     4,209      3,368     2,526     1.684       842         0
...... ...... .... . . ....  . ... . .... ......... ......    ......... ......    ...... ..... ...
Total L-T Loan                7,882   15.549    16,016    15,174    13,152    11,129    9,107       7,084
Total Liabilities             7,882   16,391    17,454    16,637    15,823    13,803    11,780      9,758
....;............
Equity
Gvrment Fund                   7,805        0    (1,211)      (585)       (4)      498     1,110      1,820
Enter. Furd                        0   12,435    16,760    16,760    16,760    16,760    16,760    16,760
Spec1ia  Fud                       0        0      1,427     1,834     2,304     2,616     2,964     3,358
...... ...... ------ ...... ...... ......
Total Equity                    7,805   12,435    16,975    18,009    19,060    19,874    20,834    21,938
Total Lfab. & Equlty             15,68?   28,826   34,430    34,646    34,882    33,677    32,615    31,696
......... .................. ....: ... .... , .... ._.:: ........ ...... ........ ...... ........ ...... ........ ...... ........ :::..... .. ...........
Debt & Equity Ratfo                0.50      0.56      0.49      0.46      0.41      0.36      0.30       0.24
Total Llsbtiltfn/*Wity             O.S0     o.sr       o.s1      0.48      0.4S      0.41      0.36       0.31
Curro nt Lbt0o                                          1.4       2.1       1.5       1.6        1.8       1.9
Guck hRtio                                              1.4       2.1       1.5       1.6        1.7       1.9



-199-                                    ANNIQ
h Wteriel  ntera  & Trai  C, Fn
Projected Fund Flow Statmnt
.............................
CM  Thcsund)
1993     14       1         199       1997      199       1999      2000
SOURCE8
Not Income                                  0       219      511       745     1,018     1,200     1,360
Tx ExeWption                       0        0         0      62        455         0         0         0
Depreciation                       0        0     2,182    2.190     2,27      2,.31     2,415     2,475
L-T Fin. Charges                   0        0     1,352    1,338     1.269     1,153       992       631
_~~~T;;                     _.T ............. ...... ............. ...... ......... ...... .........  ......
Cash From Operation                0        0     3,804    4,664     4,740     4,536    4,60S      4,67
Long-term Borroing
World Bank                    4,W67    6.937         0        0         0
PCBC                          3.012    1.572     1,309        0         0
Other P-. Credit                  0        0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Total L-T Borrowing            7,882    ,510      1,309        0         0         0         0         0
Short-term Borroing                0        0       SU        21        25
Govenni -t Grant               7,805   4,630    4,325
Total Sources of Fund           15,687   13,140     9,984    4,667    4,765      4,536     4,608     4,68?
= ..........  ......  ...... ... ......  ...... ... ......  ...... ... ...... ..... ......... ......... ...
APPLICATIONS
,,... -.. ...
Fixed Capital jsnditure
Project                      15,687   13,140    5,634         0         0         0         0         0
Non-Project                       0        0       129    1,350     1,555       645     1,004     1,163
13,,4O ......... ........    ......   ......... ......    ......... ...... ..... ......... ......... ...
Total Fixed Asse  Inv         1,6   13,140        5,7      1,350     1,55        as      1,004     1,163
Inc/Dec in V.C.                   0        0        72        s         6          7         5         6
Rec./Pay. Acc. Adjustmmnt          0        a       459       20        21        23         0         0
Lone-term Debt Sevice
Intrst                           0        0      1,352    1,33      1,269     1,153       992        31
Repayment                         0        0       842      6U        842     2,023     2,023     2,023
......  ......... .... ........ ......   ......... ......    ......... ...... ..... ......... ......... ...
Total L-T Debt Service             0        0    2,194    2,180      2,111     3,176     3,015     2,854
Outflai of Special Fund            0        0        54      102       149       206       240       276
Tot Apptications of Fund        15,687   13,140    8,542    3,4        3,843     4,254     4,264    4,296
Net Cash slow                        0        0     1,442    1,03        922       282       343       311
................  ......  ... ............ ......  .........  ...... ......   .........    ......  I........    ......  .........    ......
Beginnin Cash                        0        0         0    1,42      2,472     3,394     3,676     4,019
Ending Cash                          0        0     1,42    2,472      3,3K4    3,676      4,019     4,406
.... ..... .........................        . .        .    ...................................................... 5  1.
Debt s rvice sontago ratfo                            1.7      2.1       2.Z       1.4       1.S       1.6



- 200 -                          ANNEX 21
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PROPOSED SEWERAGE
COMPONENTS
Quantfled Economic Benefits
1.           Projects benefits quantified in the analysis include: (a) improvements in land
values; (b) improvements to agricultural and fisheries production; (c) reductions in public water
supply treatent costs; (d) reductions in industrial water supply costs; (e) improvements to
public health; (f) benefits to tourism; and (g) improvements In water transport. Ihe major
assumptions for quantifying these benefits are discussed below. The economic analyses of the
sewerage components in each of the three cities, Wuxi, Zhenjiavg and Changzhou are attached.
2.           Absence of data and the inability to quantify water quality improvements beyond
the city area has prevented the analysis from being extended beyond this point, even though there
would be additional downstream benefits, which are expected to include improvements to public
health, agriculture and fisheries, and land values. Exclusion of these benefits means that the
economic rates of return of the proposed project components are understated, which may be
particlarly significant since the benefits from the sewerage treatment plants (and therefore from
the capital and operating costs associated with it) accrue almost entirely to downstream users of
the Grand Canal and Taihu.
A. Wux
Improvements In land Values
3.           One of the most significant benefits of the project will be the removal of
malodours generated by the canal system in Wuxi. Ihis is expected to result in an improvement
in the values of property, and hence land, adjacent to the canals. A measure of the benefit
associated with this improvement is reflected in increases in rental values, which are assumed
to be directy related to increases in land values.
4.           Land in Wuxi City is classified into five land valuation categories. It is aumed
that areas of the different land valuation categories are evenly distributed throughout the city,
and tgat a meian land use fee of Y 12.SOlm5/year is representative of the avx rage.
5.           The total length of canas expected to benefit from improved water quality and
reduced malodour is estimated to be 200 km and this benefit is expected to extend to land lying
100 meters each side of these canals. Thus, a total land area of 20 million m2 is esfimated to
be affected. Of this, it is assumed that 50 percent is built on by properties whose values will
increase.



-201 -                           ANNEX 21
6.           It is assumed tbat poperty value increases resulting from the project will range
from being negligible to 5 percent of value, and that the average property valne increase is
2.5 percent. Land value is assumed to represent 20 percent of total property value.
Accordingly, a 2.5 percent increase in property value translates into a 12.5 percent increase in
land value. It follows that average annual land use fees of Y 12.50/Ir rise to Y 14.06 i2, an
increase of Y 1.561m2.
7.           An average increase of this amount leads to a net annual increase in land use fees
of Y15 i ,r3llon (20,000,000 x 0.5 x 1.56). Land use fees are assumed to be a measure of the
minir-v. be --flt gained by occuplei' 'the land area. It is assumed that the full benefit occurs
by th. * - #Jl, and that benefits - progressively realized from 1994.
lmproverents to Agricultural and Elsheries Production
8.           Improved water quality is expected to Increase agricultural and fisheries output
in Wuxi City (and in rural areas adjacent to the Grand Canal, although these cannot be
quantified). Improved water quality is not expected to result in any saving in pretreatment costs
as this is not practiced on agricultural waters.
9.           The area of agricultural land in Wuxi City is esimated to be 273 hectares, with
an average annual output of 5.4 tons/ha at an ex-farm value of Y 500/ton. Improved water
quality is expected to increase the value of annual production (net of costs) by 5 percent. This
leads to a net benefit of Y 0.37/million/year (273 x 5.4 x 500 x 5%/1,000,000).
10.          Annual production from fish farms within the Wuxi City area is estmated to be
10,000 tons with an ex-farm value of Y 6000/ton. Improved water quality is expected to
increase the value of fish production by 5 percent (net of costs). Net benefits is therefore
estimated to be Y 3 million/year (10,000 x 6000 x 10%).
11.         ITe tot anmal net benefit from increase agricultural and fisheries production
is therefore estimated to be Y3.04 millon.
Reductions in Public Water Supply Treatment Costs
12.          Public water supplies for the city are abstracted from lake Meiliang, Lake Wuli,
Xibei Cana and several ground water sources. Improved water quality is expected to reduce
pretreatment costs for the surface water abstractions.
13.          Treated potable water supplies from surface water sources totalled 130,000,000
m? in 1991, at an average production cost of Y 0.159/lm3. It has been estimated by the Water
Supply company that improved water quality wiUl led to a reduction in pretreatment costs of
10 percent, principally through a reduced requirement for chemical treatment. The benefit from
reduced treatment costs for potable water supplies is therefore estimated to be
Y2.07mUlionlear (130,000,000 x 0.159 x 10%).



- 202 -                         ANNEX 21
ImprovemenutX sto Pblic Healt
14.            provements to canal water quality are expected to result in significant
impovee  in public health, to a reduction in the demand for medical services, and therefore
a reduction in medical costs.
15.          Me average amual cost of medical services in the Wuxi in 1991 is urban area
in 1991 is estmated by the Wuxi Health Authority to be Y 120/person, and cana war-induced
iUesses to accout for 20 percent of aU illnesses in the city  opulation 800,000).
16.         It is assumed tha improved water quality will reduce canal water-induced
illnesses from 20 percent to 5 percen of the total. Benefits to public health are therefore
estimated to be Y14.4 million/year (800,000 x 120 x 15%).
17.          Another benedf resulting from improvements to public health wfll be a fal in
the number of work days lost through illness, which would be reflected in improved
productivity. However, no statisdcs are available from which to calculate the value of this
benei.
Benefits to Tourism
18.          Anaysis of recent tends indicate tha the number of international tourists visiting
Wuxi in 1992 is epected to genert about 150,000 persons. It is assumed that these foreign
turist would spend an eura Y 6.00 for one boat trip and that 1 million Chinese tourists spend
Y 1.00 for improved water quality as folows:
150,000 * 6 + 1,000,000 * 1    =  Y 1.90 milion
19.          In adion, it is assumed teat 20,000 m2 of canal frontage commercial land for
touism increases in value by 10 percent from Y 40/mg per annum.
20,000 * 40 * 0.1             Y 0.08 milion
Total savings are therefore:  Y 1.98 million
20.          Tourist numbers are projected to increas by 5 percent per year to the year 2005.
B. ZHEEIWANG
Improvanauts In Land Values
21.          One of the most significant benefts of the project will be the removal of
malodours generated by the harbor and canal system in Zhenjiang. Ihis is expected to result
in an improvement in the vues of propety, and hence land, adjacent to the canas and the
harbor. A measure of the benefit odiated with this improvement is reflected in increases in
ret values, which are assumed to be direcy related to increases in land values.



- 203 -                         AN=  21
22.          Land in Zhenjiang City is classified into three land valuation categories. It is
assumed that areas of the different land valuation categories re evenly dibute troughout
the city, and that a median land use fee of Y 10.00Im2/year is representative of the average.
23.          The total length of waterways expected to benefit from Improved water quality
and reduced malodour Is esmat  to be 20 km (comprising 7 km along the Inme RIver, 10 km
along the Grand Canal and 3 km along the Yiunliang Canal), and this benefit i8 expected to
extend to land lying 100 meters each side of these warways. Thus, a total land area of
2 milHion m  is estmated to be affected. Of this, it is assumed hat 0 percent is built on by
properties whose values will increase.
24.         It is assumed that property value increase resulting from the project will range
from being negligible to 5 percent of value, and that the average property value increase is
2.5 percent.  Land value is assumed to represent 20 percent of total property value.
Accordingly, a 2.5 percent increase in property value trandates into a 12.5 percent increase in
land value. t follows that average annual land use fees of Y 10.00/mi2 rise to Y 11.25 m2, an
Increase of Y 1.25/m.
25.          An average increase of this amount leads to a net annual increase in land use fees
of Yl.25 mnion (2,000,000 x 0.5 x 1.25). Land use fees are assumed to be a measure of the
minimum benefit gained by occupiers of the land area. It is assumed that the full benefit occurs
in the year 1998, and that benefits are progressively realized from 1995.
huprovemt to Agricultural an Fisheries Production
26.         Improved water quality is expected to increase agricuturl and fisheries output
In Zhenjiang City (and in rural areas adjacent to the Grand Canal, although these camot be
quntfied).
27.          The area of agricultura land in Zhenjiang City is esdmated to be 1000 hectares,
with an average annual output of 5 tons/ha at an ex-farm value of Y 600/on. Improved water
quality is expected to increase the value of anmn  production (net of costs) by 4 percent. This
leads to a net benefit of Y 0.14/million/year (1000 x 6 x 600 x 4 percent/1,000,000).
28.          Annual production from fish farms within the Zhenjiang City area is estimated
to be 3,150 tons with an ex-farm value of Y 6000/ton. Improved water quality is expected to
increase the value of fish production by 5 percent (net of costs). hIproved water quality will
also enable new fish farming areas to be developed so as tu, Increase the  ual production by
10 pent. The benefit is therefore estmated to be Y 2.84 millionlyear (3,150 x 6000(S% +
10%D. The tota annmal net benefit from increase agricultural and fisheries production is
estimated to be Y2.98mmUllon.
Improveents In Public Wat  Supply
29.          The current poor water quality in the Inner River (harbor) necsites the
cessation of operation of the Jiangbian Water Treatment Works (WTW) for up to 7 months each
year, reslting in a net loss in production of 4,200,000 in per year (20,000 m&/day x 210 days).
Water is supplied to city consumers at a rate of Y 0.494/in.



-204 -                          ANNEX21
30.         Improved water quality In the Inner River will permit year-round operation of
the Jlangbian WTW at an increased net income of Y 0.176 million (4,200,00 x 0.042).
Maintennce of the Jiangbian WTW during the present 7 month downtime period amounts to
Y 0.175 milion per year, comprising staffg costs (70 no. staff x 7 monts x Y 300/month) and
nuintenance costs (Y 4,000/month x 7 months.). The above cost savings associated with the
improvement in public water supply from the Jiangbian WTW can be realized as a net benefit
amunting to Y 0.35 million/year.
31.         Improvements in water quality will also allow industry to resume abstraction of
harbor and canal waters, thereby reducing the demand on the public potable water supply
system. It is esdmated that the reduction in potable water demand (of at lease 73,900 m3/day
or 37 percent of current supply capacity) will enable planned augmentation works at the
municipal watwr treatment plants to be deferred for at least 5 years. The capital e,ost to augment
the WTW is estimated to be Y 45 million. The benefit fiom deferring this expenditure by five
years is estmated by including expenditure avoided to Y 45 million as a benefit in 1995 and
expenditure incurred of Y 45 million as a negative benefit in 2000. The net benefit from
defring this penditre is the difference between the present value of the Y 45 million which
would have been spent in 1995 and the present value of the Y million actually spent in 2000.
32.          The total benefit associated with improvements to the public water supply system
is therefore YO.35 million in al years begnning 1998, apart from 2000 when the amount of
Y million is also included as a negative benefit offset. It is assumed that the total benefit in 1995
is Y 45 million from expenditure avoided, plus 0.1 million as cost savings in the municipal
supply are progressively achieved.
Reductions In Industrial Water Supply Costs
33.          Improved water quality in the Inner River and canals wiUl result in cost savings
in abstraction of water for industry use. Im coved water quality wiU permit industries to resume
abstraction of harbor and canal water, as a replacement to public potable water which is
presenly consumed. Annua industrial water consumption for which abstraction could be
resumed amounts u 26,973,500 m3/year (21,900,000 mi/year in the Inner River; 5,0005,000
m3/year along the Grand Canal; and 73,000 m?/year along the Yunliang Canal). The cost to
purchase potable water is currently Y 0.06/rn.
34.          The cost saving to industry to replace their present potable supplies with
abstacted water is therefore Y 11.71 million per year (26,973,500 x [0.494-0.60]), comprising
Y 9.51lmillion for industries within the Inner River Catchment; Y 2.17 million within the Grand
Canal CatcAment; and Y 0.03 million within the Yunliang Canal Catchment.
35.         Improved water quality will also result in reduced supply costs for water
cumrny abstracted by the Dadong Pulp and paper Mill. This factory currently abstracts water
at the rate of 36,900 m/day from a new intake along the Navigation Channel, at a cost of
Y 0.28/mr. With improved water quality in the Inner River, this factory is expected to resume
abstraction from its origia harbor intake for at least 9 montfs per year, at a cost of only
Y 0.061mn. The cost savings to the Dadong Pulp and Paper Mill resulting from improved water
quality, which can be realized as a net benefit resulting from the wastewater interception scheme,
therefore amount to Y 2.22 million/year [9/12 x 36,900 x (0.28-0.06) x 365]. The total benefit



- 205 -                          AN=  2
of the scheme resultng from reductions In industial water supply costs therefore amounts to
Y 13.93 millon/year.
Improvements to PubUl Halth
36.          Improvements to canal and harbor water quality are expected to result in
significant improvements in public health, to a reduction in the demand for medical services, and
therefore a reduction in medical costs. Tbe average annual cost of medical services in the
Zhenjiang urban area in 1991 Is estimated to be Y 160/person, with water-induced Ulnesses
accounting for 15 percent of all illnesses in the city (permanent population 317,000). It is
assumed that Improved water quality will reduce canal water-induced illnesses from 15 percent
of the total. Benefits to public health are therefore estimated to be YS.08 milon/yew(317,700
x 160 x 10%)
37.          Another benefit resulting from Improvements to public health will be a fal in
the number of work days lost through illness, which would be reflected in improved
productivity. Unfortately, no statistics are available from which to calculate the value of this
benefit.
lBenefts to Tourism
38.          The number of international tourists visiting Zhenjiang in 1990 generated about
12,000 person-nights, with an average daily expenditures of Y 200/person-night (including
acommodatn, meals, shopping, tours, etc.). Present tourist hotel accommodation in Zhenjiang
is well in excess of this estimate.
39.          Improved water quality in the city harbor and canals is expected to increase
tourism by 50 percent, and also to increase average tourist expendiures on harbor and canal
tours and related activities by Y 4/person-night. The total value of Increased tourist expendie
is therefore calcuated to be Y 1.25 million/year (12,000 x 0.50 x 200 + 12,000 x 4). It is
assumed that 67 percent of this is attributable to costs of goods and services, and that the balance
of this expenditure of 33 percent is a benefit to Zhenjiang. Thus, total net tourism benefit is
estimated to be Yt7.40 million.
C. CEANGZROU
Improvements in Land Values
40.          One of the most significant benefits of the project will be the removal of
malodours generated by the rivers and canal system in Changzhou. This is expected to result
in an improvement in the values of property, and hence land, adjacent to the canals and the
ivers. Land in Changzhou City is classified into three land valuation categories. It is assumed
that improvements of water quality from grade II to grade i would contribute (25 percent) to
similar upgrading of land valuation from category II to category I for the land in the vicinity of
the waterways. According to the Changzhou Miunicipal Land Administration, Categories I and
11 land are valued at Y 1,400/ei/year and Y 1,50/m2/year, respecdvely. A total land area of
249,000 m2 is estimated to be upgraded, of which 80 percent is assumed to be of commercial
value. Ihe improvements in land value are estimated at Y 12.6 millIonlye (1,400 -1,150) x
0.249 x 80% x 0.25). It is assumed that the full benefit would start to occur in the year 1997.



-206 -                          ANNEX21
Improvements to Agricultural an ftheries Production
41.         Improved water quality is expected to increase agriculural and fisheries output
in Changzhou City (and In rura areas adjacent to the Grand Canal. although these camot be
qantified). The area of agriculural land in Changzhou City is esimat  to be 533 hectares
(8000 mu). Improved water quality is expected to increase the value of annual grain production
by 500,000 tons and, along with other increase in agriculural products, would result in increased
agricul   ouputW valued at Y 1.07 million/year. In addition, increased fishery production is
valued at Y .87 million/year. The total benefits would amount to Y 1.94 million/year.
Improvemelts In Public Water Supply
42.         In the absence of the proposed project, part of the public water supply for the
city would have to be abstracted from the Yangtze River. This would no longer be necessary
with the proposed sewerage component to improve water quality in Changzhou. Ibis would,
in turn, translate into savings of capital costs estimaed at Y 60 million.
43.          At present, the water supply company abstract water from the canals to meet
demand for pole water (70,000 tons/day). However, due to severe water pollutior in the
canals, the water supply company has to curtail production for about 50 days per anm. The
proposed sewerage component to improve water quality would avoid such curtailment of water
supply. Based on the current water charge of Y 0.16/ton, the incremental annual revenues
would amount to Y 560,000 (70,000 x S0 x 0.16).
44.         In addition, as a result of improved canal water quality, the water supply
company is expected to reduce water treatment cost estimated at Y 0.1/ton, totalling Y 255,500
(70,000 x 365 x 0.1). The total increase in water supply company's annmal revemnes would
amount to Y815,5(X).
Reductions In Industrial Water Supply and Pretreatment Costs
45.         Improved water quality will permit industries to abstract canal water, as a
replacement to public potable water which is presently consumed. This would allow for
avoidance of capital cost for a water supply plant esftimated to at Y 30 million. In addition,
improved water quality would reduce the treatment costs esfimated at Y 0.1/ton for anmnal
industridl water supply amounting to 24,000 tons/day. This would translate into total annual cost
savings of Y 876,000 (24,000 x 365 x 0.1).
46.         In addition, with the p:oposed municipal sewer treatment plant, industries would
avoid preteatment costs (net of sewerage charges) in terms of both capital costs (estimated at
Y 2.8 miUlion) and opatgcosts (atY 0.51m3for28,0QOmJ/day)totallingY 5.11 million/year.
Improvements to Public Health
47.         Improvements to canal water quality are expected to result in significant
improvements in public health, to a reduction in the demand for medical services, and therefore
a reduction in medical costs. Based on the statistics from the municipal health department and
hospitals, wat-induced messes accounting for 50 percent of all illnesses in the city. Et is



-207 -                          ANNEX 21
umed  a Iwproved watr qality will reduce cna water-Induced illnesses by 50 percent of
the tot. MedIcal cos reductlon ae e _tmad to be Y 1 mfilIontyr.
Iunpr.vanemts  Naviatin
48.          Direct dischge of dusrial waswar to the rives has resulted In sludgo
_    on, accounting for an esmaed 30 percent of the sludge which the Wator Course
Manageme Departmet has to drdgo amually (690,000 r). It Is esdmated tha the proposed
sewege _comonent would ret  reduction of 207,000 mn of Industa wtwat sludge per
year.  Based an ddg  costs of Y 10/0n, the anmual sai     would amount to
Y 2.07 million/year.



Wuxi Sewerage Component
Economic Analysis
(In Million Yuan)
YE"R                            BENEFITS                              COSTS                 NmT
CAs FLO
Improved  Improved  Public  Public  Tourism   Total    Capital Operating  Total
Land    Agric. &  Water   Health             Benefits  Costs   Costs    Costs
Value   Fisberies  supply
199?      0.0                         0.5      0.0      0.5       6.7      2.2      8.9         -8.4
1994      2.0                         1.0      0.0      3.0      30.3      3.5     33.8       -30.8
199S      4.0                         2.0      0.2      6.2      30.3      4.7     3S.0        -28.8
1996      6.0                         3.0      0.3      9.3      32.4      S.9     38.3       -29.0
1997      8.0      1.0      O.S       4.0      0.7     14.2      24.4      6.6     31.0       -16.8
1998     10.0      3.0      0.4       S.1      1.2     19.7      13.8      7.2     21.0        -1.3
1999     12.0      3.0      0.4       5.1      1.6     22.1      11.0      7.7     18.7          3.4
2000     14.0      3.0      2.1      11.0      1.8     36.6       2.9      8.3     11.2         25.4
2001     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      1.9     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2002     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.0     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2003     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.1     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2004     15.6      3.0      2.1      14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2005     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2006     15.6      3.0      2.1      14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2007     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2008     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2009     15.6      3.0      2.1      14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2010     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2011     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2012     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7        34.7
2012     1S.6      3.0      2.1      14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7        34.7
2013     15.6      3.0      2.1      14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2014     1S.6      3.0      2.1      14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7        34.7
2015     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2016     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
2017     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7           I
2018     15.6      3.0       2.1     14.4      2.2     43.4                8.7      8.7         34.7
Economic Rate of Return           16%



Zhenjiang Sewerage Component
Economic Analysis
(In Million Yuan)
YEAR                            BENEFITS                                  COSTS               NET
CASH FLOW
Improved  Improved Public Industr. Public Tourism  Total   Capital operating Total
Land   Agric. & Water   Water  Health             Benefits Costs   Costs   Costa
Value  Fisheries Supply Supply
1992     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    12.6      0.0    12.6   -12.6
1993     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    49.0      0.0    49.0   -49.0
1994     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    34.4      0.0    34.4   -34.4
1995     0.3      0.8    45.1      5.5     1.0      0.1    52.8    19.3      1.7    21.0    31.8
1996     0.6      1.5     0.2    11.0      2.0      0.2    15.5      8.9     3.8    12.7      2.8
1997     0.9      2.3     0.3    12.0      3.0      0.3    18.8      0.0     S.0      5.0    13.8
1998     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.1      5.1    19.0
1999     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.3      5.3    18.8
2000     1.3      3.0   -44.7    13.9      5.1      0.4   -21.0      0.0     5.4 5.4   -26.4
2001     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.5      5.5    18.6
2002     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     S.6      5.6    18.5
2003     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.7      5.?    18.4
2004     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.8      5.8    18.3
2005     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.8      5.8    18.3
2006     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.9      5.9    18.2
2007     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     5.9      5.9    18.2
2008     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2009     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2010     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2011     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2012     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2012     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2013     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2014     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2015     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0      6.0    18.1
2016     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1     0.0      6.0     6.0    18.1       I
2017     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1     0.0      6.0     6.0    18.1
2018     1.3      3.0     0.4    13.9      5.1      0.4    24.1      0.0     6.0     6.0    18.1
Economic Rate of Return        14%



Changzhou Sewerage Component
Economic Analysis
(In Xillion Yuan)
TIAR                          8omITs                                            COSTS                 33T
can PLOW
Improved Improved   Public Industria  Public   Water      Total  Cap! tal oper.       Total
Land   Agricul. &   Water  water    Health  Tranup. Deefits   costs  Couts          Costs
Value  Fisheries  supply  supply
1993                                                                     16.69              16.69      -16.69
1994                                                                     46.03              46.03      -46.03
199S                                                                     38.90               38.9       -38.9
1996                                                                     26.19              26.19      -26.19
1997     12.6     1.94    60.82    38.79         1     2.07   117.22      1.83     9.05    10.88       106.34
1998     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.05      9*0S       15*37
1999     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.05      9.05       1S.37
2000     12.6     1.94      0.82     5.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0s      9.0s       15.37
2001     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0s      9.0S       15.37
2002     12.6     1.94      0.82     S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.05      9*05       15*37      ∞
2003     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0S      9.05       15.37
2004     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2*07    24.42               9.0s      9.0S       15.37
2005     12.6     1.94      042      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0S      9.05       15.37
2006     12*6     1.94      0.82     S.99        1      2.07    24.42              9.0s      9*05       15*37
2007     12.6     1.94     0.82      5.99        1     2.07   24.42                9.05      9.0s       15*37
2006     12.6     1*94     0.82      5.99        1'    2.07    24.42               9.05      9.0s       15.37
2009     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0S      9.0s       15.37
2010     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0s      9.05       15.37
2011     12.6     1.94     0.82      5.99        1     2.07    24.42               s.0s     9.0s        1S.37
2012     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0S     9.0s        1S.37
2013     12.6     1.94     0.82      5.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.05     9.0s        15.37
2014     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9*05     9.0s        1S.37
2015     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9*05     9.0s        15.37
2016     12.6     1.94     0.82      S.99        1     2.07    24.42               9.0s     9.0s        15.37
Econaic Rate of Return            17%                                                     I



-211-                           AN=  22
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILLE IN
PROJECT FILE
item 1WO.                 DescrWon
1.  Southern Jiangsu Environmenta Strategy and Acdon Plans
Main document: Framework of the Environmental Protecton Development Strategy for
Southern Jiang  (dated January 1992). suppleme     information: 'SouthernJiangsu
EnvironmentAl Strategy and Action Plans" (dated May 1992); and fax dated September
14, 1992.
2.  Suzhou Environmental Stegy and Action Plans
Environmental Prottion Development Strategy and Action Plan for Suzhou City*
(dated Jamnary 1992).
3. Wuxi Enviromel Straegy and Action Plans
Main document: 'Environmental Mangement Strategy and Action Plans, Southern
Jiangsu, Wuxi City' (dated June 1992). Supplementary information: 'Environmental
Management Strategy and Action Plans, Southern Jiangsu, Wuxi City (SupplemeAury
Report)', (dated July 1992).
4. Changzhou Environmental Strategy and Action Plans
Main document: Enviroomental Management Strategy and Action Plans for Changshou
City" (dated June 1992). Supplementary information: Changzhou TVIE Pollution
Sources Sitatione (fax dated 10123192).
5. Zhenjiang Environmenta Strategy and Action Plans
Main docment: Framework of the Environmental Protection Development Strategy
and Action Plan for Zhenjiang City' (dated Jamuay 1992). Supplement iformation:
'Framework of the Environmental Protection Development Suategy and Action Plan for
Zhenjiang City (Supplementary Data)," (dated Sqptember 1992).
6.  Wud Sewerage Ma Plan (Watson Hawbsley).
7. Zhenjiang Water Pollution Control Study (Watson Hawksley).
8.  Caangzhou Watr Quality Mster Planing and Prefeasibilty Studies (Sinclair Kight)



-212 -                          ANNEX 22
9.  Hazardous Waste Components (nvironmental Resources Limited).
10. Feasibility studies on Hong Ye, Hua Sheng and Zhenjiang paper subprojects (aako
Poyry).
11. Handbook of Regulations on Environmental Protection in China Resources of the
Future)
12. List of Selected Environmental Laws and Regulations in China, Jiangsu Province and
municipalities of Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhie4ang.
13. Appraisal Manual for Industrial Credit Projects. China Investment Bank. December
1989.
14. Feasibility studies and environmental impact assessment reports on the following
industrial subprojects: Pharmaceutical No. S (Suzhou), Pharmaceutical No. 2 (Wuxi),
Iron and Steel (Wuxi), Liyong Paper Mill (Wuxi) and Brewery (Changzbou).
15. Environmental impact assessment reports on sewerage components in Wuxi, Changzhou
and Zhenjiang.
16. Feasibility studies and environmenta impact assessment reports on hazardous waste
components.



- 213-
CHARTS



- 214 -
Chart 1
CHNA
SOUhERN JIANGSU ENVIOMENTAL PROTECNPROJECT
Osgaudza_tufor Eionmstul Pw_voo In Cdim
'of
c-I
_mvbww  M*bW
!!gt_          Pr             X_o
~~~~Po bn
rm             ~~~ud
ausb
U~~~E o
Obb"mm
¢~~~~~~~~a"4



- 215 -
Chart 2
0
U-                   ~~~~~~0
a . ~  .         ..._         
10
__ ___ æ
CZR
a          _        &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
o       ___ - 
(uoz puTesnoqj) 3000



- 216 -
Chart 3
SOvTJ JIANEGSU ENYOITfAL PROTECTIIO PROJECT
Q.aL f Municipailv
Municipal People's Congess
I
Municipal People's Govermment
mayor
Secrtai Genra
Gownment Co mssand Offices
Econmic and Planning Comission                    Cenus Office
Construction Comission                            Goverment Research Office
Education Cowaission                               Foreign Affairs Office
Foreign Economic Relations and Trad Comission    Office of Opening to the Wortd
Science and Technology Comission                  Overses Chinese Affairs Office
Physical Culture and Sports Comuission            Air Defence Office
Govetan Dquut and Bureau
Culture Bureau                                    Publfc Health Bureau
Light Industry  Bureau                              echanic Industry Bureau
Transportation Bureau                              Textile Industry Bureau
Bureau of Commerce                                 Finance Bureau
Agriculture and Forestry Bureau                    Bureau of Water Conservation
Justice Bureau                                    Civil Affairs Burea
Public Security Bureau                             Chemical Industry Bureau
State Security Bureau                              Electronics Industry Bureau
People's Bank Branch                               Broadcast and TV Bureau
Perseo tel Bureau                                  Labor Bureau
Statistics Bureau                                  Supply and SaLes Corporation
Standard and Netrology Bureau                      Goods and MateriaLs Bureau
Trad Office                                        Earthquake Bureau
Bureau of Grains                                   Adeinistration of Meteorology
Files Bureau                                      PublicatiS  Burea
Agriculture Mechanic Bureu                         Industrial and Comrcial Administration
Land and Planning Bureau                           Patent Bureau
Tobacco Monopoly Bureau                            Price Bureau
Tax Bureau                                         Travel and Tourism Bureau
Enviro,mstal Protection Bureau                     Post and Telecomuication Bureau
Coamodity Inspection Bureau                        Tonship and VilLage Enterprises Aduinistratien



- 217 -                                                Chart 4
ORGAN1ZATION STRUCTURE OF CHAN6ZHOU EPS
|  NEPA       I          I    MAYOR                      JINS  EP. 
ilX¢lloecn +1.Tdk ladl In
CE~PS            1
PERSONNEL SECTION:                  PLANNING SECTION:                  PLANNING SECTION:
.     scheW                  * Plan fbomulaton                    Natongl Eight Managent
* FirW'~~~OO          *~ Sc1OntfC research                 system
*,                           * Proje  maagement of              * InvestigtIon pollution sources
pollutson source treatment     * Township enteprpises
* Environmental accidents
* Supervising pollutin sources
*Environmental montofing
manaent
---1:~~~~~~~~~                        ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ Leg=Islat.on
Three Counties                        CZ EnviMronmenta
Sunnrising andEnvironmental Protecton                                 Monitoring Sation:
hnagement Sation                Bureau                              * Monilorlng
* Environmental QA
* Environmental status
.repofing
Environmentl Protecdon
Four Distits                            Insfitute:
Environmental
Protiecton Office                 -Study on pollutio
treatment technology
.Environmental manag
ment planning
*EIA
Three Counties
Errnfonmental
Monbfing SlaSonsr 
[  Comphrehenshve                  |        Personnel
Con Sefon                                    Secfion:
EvraflmenS tg                          Environmenial                      An ra Tecthniu
Pg                        1~~~~~~Qult Monltofin                     n
Omffic                                                                    Offiic
Envhonmental                       Poguion Sources
EEng     dg                          M IMon



Chart 5
CHINA
SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Office OrganIzatIon
headd b0W
VIce Govemor
EW nomx
Director
VOce Direct
and                     Panmd                       and
Enginmngsectio             Finance Sectio             ualsn sectionq;                    le
Suzhou     1               Wwd
M~Lcat                           I                                     . MuiiplI
P MojectOffice   J       ProjectOffice
p  Omce           ~~P  Olllcnte             P    >Wflce               PWletOmce



CHINA
SouUwm Jbnou Enn entl Pr@tecion Proct
I  Diectors                                                 t
Prodiuction    i    Cnief    |rPlanning8  |         Pe&r       |iTchoow    t|Pnec           driIv
UuSeernt~    %                Fintr       nance   i  Labcior     Section       c∞nsvlucon       Se| S on
lrrlff           Lucun          Network          Water
Collection       Treatment      Maie               Quality
Office            Plant           Team        Monitor Office
oI



CHINA
Southem Jangsu Environmental Protection Project
Chanzou Urban Sewerage Company
Organization Chat
rBoarc- of|
IDirears   t
Operaton &       Material      Engineering      Personnel      Finance &     Administraton       R & D                 o
Maiftenan      Management    Management         & Tining       AocounLing       & Legal         Servie
Department     Department      Department      Department      Deparnment     Department      Department
.t



CHINA
Southem Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project
Zhenjiang Wter Supply and Drainage Company
Organ   on Chart
ibard do|
TchndOiOP ltanning &             iFinance and      Personnel      Adminisraton
Depratlon       Accoufg           Secion           Sec
De~~l    _       etc _   .SI  _    I                  lI
|   Waier   |  |   Water |
supply          Dralnap
Company         Company
OD



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Soutem  Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project
Wuxt Urban Wastewater Management Component of Major Contract PackaW
Cont!  aactto                                             low ie        toe           tostw                       ostonn
_t _____ T2E 3!ftE                                                 A1E~   ETh IF- 31IETh TilTi 3i1EA  i~l i4
A ChiW ed
__  T7* SW"e      (Cena)                                   40%          30%           30%
9 TMh* SwrsS a(Wt                                           40%       60%
3 Tha* Sewer IS l0Ea0st
4 Tmflk Sewers If (Norm)                                                                          0303%
5 Tw*tSWM .II .                                                                     40% OSD%
8 Praqng tationsm IS                                        0         49             5
7 ..m Stations                                        . ,I      _                                                        2.-
5  PAelIi Sewers LA0%
9 RFto S " aB (Cetr                                                                  %           40%
10 R,a*IcSevresI (et                                                                  - _  40%
11 Ralf Sewers        _                                                                                         40% 3( 9)                    -
12 Relc. Sewers 11 (Centr                                                                         40%           so%      .....
13 Relic. Sewers  si                                              loos                            4             30%           30%
14 Lucun S.T.W (10+1)                                            -% 909         9     0           159
B   Eaulment & Maerlals
15 Pw a e(3S.1  D                                                                    4%.
15 Pun"oMetcm                                                                   NWl)               25%          40%               A
17 b         etc( LUVW cI   I*                                                       30 I0.
18 Manoten  Eq Tip
Notec AC - Appoint Coutas, B - BBding Domaet  0 - DOefd Dedpg, E v Eauaton & Award, IS  ntmerti  Shoppigb, LS - LOC Shoppin  K- Mobl-  w R l - PReview.
8  -Manufacte & Ddbery T - Tenering, ..com - Coinmulo    ..das - Fuatw Design, fWdfs Finshes &  Mh4n4  % - Percenage eendi  per _imun
g.



Southem Jlangsu Environmental Protection ProJect
Changzhou Urban Wastewaterl-anagement Component of Major Contract Packages
Implemontin Schedle
Conlract Package                              192               1993                 1e4"                1995                1996                 1997
No.  Descpo                               2  1 3 L       4    1 1 2 1 3 1 4   I I  1    3         1 1 2  1 3    i       1  2  13    4    13    4
A    ONv Wods
i (a) CheWl Trun Sewes                                                            80%          20%
(b) CtnOe Puwpln Staon                                                                 50%  50%
3   hechlSwaeT                                                              60%           40%
gmmtLw                                                  60%           40%~~8-m
2 a X S"eTP                                                          1_FO
4  (a) Lhau S.tP (.4)                                                                                  _
(b) Qinta  .T.P(ext)6%                                                                                            66
(c) Adrnb Blldlkng (Quhia                                                                   100% f
a    Equient&Ma w rs
6 PuMps& ~mwf-y~.
_ (a) Chenge S.TI ... Pcan
(b) Utau S.T.P                                                                                            60   50%
(c) Qintan S.T.P                                                                                                        .0o% mCOM
(d) Punwng Ston                                                                                          OD    . 
__   EIectlcaiSLwIy/otrOl Gear 
(a) Chengbe S.TP                                                                                        65       5%  _-O
(b) Uhau S.T.P                                                                                                 100%...com
(c) Ointan S.T.P                                                                                                    100%
(d) Pump   Stations                                                                                     100%   ...com
7 Abblowes                                                                                                         C
8  Valves
9 Cabl
10  Heatfi  Equipment                                                                                               0
1   ConvmmniW n Equipment                                                                      C
12  Instrumen twati
13  Laboratory Equipment
14  Moniwot  EquipmW nt xW
15  Mechancal Equipment
16 Ta*n Equipment
17  Ofice Fum*iuEqupnr                                                                                                                                             et
_ ~     ~      _   _   _ __       _   __    _ __       _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _  __    _   _  _   _   _   _  _   _    
18  Ops & Maintn         Vehs & Equinent  _ _ __   _         _ _ _                                                 .     .....
Notee AC- Appont Consuat. B  Sidin Document, D- Detale Design. E- Evauation & Award. IS - IntrmIon Shopping. LS -Local Shoppng M - Mobsation, R-Review.
8 - Ianufature & Dolvey T- Tendag, ...om CommiC ng ...ds FW  Ds



Southern Jlangsu Environmental Protection Project
Zhenjlang Urban Wastewater Management Component of Major Contract Packages
lmplomentatlon Schedule
ContactPackad"            _ _          _        se                  1993                1994               1s95                1998                 1997
No. DescdpUon                            I    2   3_ 1 4    1 1T3 W2I3T4  1                               L       1 3   i tyI                     2    3    4
A   CO Wotks                                                                    1
I Submare & Ouifal Pope                                                   20r         60% 16%  .co
2 East _i nnWt    Sewer                                f                         p 75%              % om
3kmne Hlabotur ItercepMtor                                                                                                 ..co
4 Grand Canal Lntercet                                                                                       4_________
= Y ram cow triucepw                                                                                                                 15%      85%        .on
_ Jbrfam ELO        &                                         Hi0                                                    3D.........9   
a_ mf       ,e& ningR . PS                                                         30%                                                               ......................co
6D%  40%      ~       ~        50           5%       *
-Adrdn = kgW  Woshop eic (Janql)                                                           4 60s
8   E_ulmM   Material
I11R.C. Sew  P  ps                                                                        3D%      >        3S  25%           25%            20%   ... Im
12 JagWHn & HOn Osa  P.S.                                                             15% __ _... _om
T3 PS. (see 7+8 2bwe)                                                                                         _       r 20%   40%            20%  .._   _com
14 EquImet & Vehicle (Malntenanc)                                                          10    . 
is Labomatry &otn _Eint_                                                                          ..._CM
1_  Office Eqpt*. Vehicle.  Co&iuunica"or                                          ______ _|____... cam
Note= AC- AppobCnulants. ¢-iddg DocuntAs. D - Detaled Design. E - Evaduaon & Award IS-Inten4 spp*  LS - Local Shcppn9 M - Mobisato, R -Review.
S - Manubcure  Deyve,w   T - Tndeg ..com - Commaloi  ._des - Fwhr Desg
f 



- 226 -
Churt 11
_   _         _E_=_.
C         U :-_____ -____
2      -_       _ _  _ _ - -
|=- I___
a.          __    __   ___I_         ___-_         __   _I_
0 f1X~~~~~



\   YEAR 1990 -                                                                I          YEAR 2000 -                SOTEN C HIN A
EXISTING SITUATION                                                                       ,WITH PROJECT    SOTENJIANGSU ENVIRONMENT1
PROTECTION PROJECT
CITY OF SUZHOU
WATER QUALITY INDICATORS
LI                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATEAR QUALITY CLASS IN ACCORDANCE VAITH
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY STANDARD GB 3830 88
EMJCLASS III
CLASS III
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M=CLASS V
~CLASS V
A~ GRANT) CANAL
WATERWAYS
URBAN AREA
!YEAR 2000-                                1nES
WiTHOUT PROJECT                                                                /                                                                    911- GRANDOCANAL
.1'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     -.---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- RAILROADS
NGSU                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COUNT (XtAN') BOUINDARIES
PROIANCE BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                          AO   I  R 4  60  BR  ITO
LI,                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUULfl FEDERATITO LI
F-ST
FEBRUARY I993



YEAR 19'90 -                                    YEAR 2000  -                                          ~~~~~~CHINA
EXISTING SITUATION                                                                     WITH PROJECT                       SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENT
PROTECTION PROJECT
CilY OF Wuxi
WATER QUAUTY INDICATORS
WATER GUAUTlY CLASS IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL GUAEIIY STANDARD GA 3838-08
COASS II[
CLASS IVI
L'.CLASS y
11M1111eCLASS V
GRAND CANAL
WATERWAYS
q  ~~~~-'--- RAJEROADS~~~~~~RALRAD
URBAN AREAIY(SAN RUNARE
PROJ                                                                                                     G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAVNDCA ONDAE
0    20(   410   'IO   80   ISO0
RUSSIAN FLEERATION
EASTA
0  1 2
P809UATY 1993



IMD 245T4
YEAR 1990 -                                                YA 00
EXISTING SITUATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YER 00                                             CHINA
EASTING SITUATION                           -  ~WITH PROJECT            SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENT
2                        ~~~~~~PROTECTION PROJECT
-                                        -               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITY OF CHANGZHOU
/                               ~~~~~~~~~WATER QUALITY INDICATORS
WATER QUALITY CLASS IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALRY STANDARD) GA 3838-88
CLASS III
- /  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CASI
CLAS 
WIlNOUT PROJECT  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   GRAND CANAL~~~~OAN CNA
/~~~  Nw~~~L.~~~g                                            PROVINCE ROUNDARITS~~~~~RILRAD
0  1  2  3              OL   11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   54  ~    51
I  I  I  I ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           ~I                   
KROME'm                KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIGIiI
YEARI                                                       _                                   RUSIA  POSROJC T CME
PROJECT                                                             4~~~~~~~~~~~~~  GRAND CANAL~~~~~~~~' ~
RAROD
9081152N9BOUNAP9E
PROIAa BOLNDAMU



__________________________________________________________________                                                                                                    BRO  245  :5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD   45:
YEAR I990 -                                                                       YEAR 2W  -                                              cHINA
EXISTING SITUATO4N                                                                      WITH PROJECT                      SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENT
_____  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PROTECTION PROJECT
)+FR t-                                                                                                                                   CITY OF ZHENJIANG
WATER QUALiTY INDICATORS
WATER QLUAUTY CLASS IN ACCORDANCE VWINH
(71g                               XEM IRg ON /A -X \ _ERMENTAL QUALrrY STANDARD GR 3838-88
K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=   CLASS E
CLASS III
CaASS IV
CLASS V
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                              X CIAR.SV. 
GRAND CANAL
WATERWAYS
RAILROADS
URBAN AREA
IRLO4ALES
WITHUT PIROJECa                                                                                                                                     G- OCANAL
OOUWY AN) BOUNLQARE
L                                                                                                          PROYNa SOL"DOOL "' (
ELOMRIElS  ~~~~~                                                                                         ~~~fL~~Nw~~SO
FERRUR 1993



