Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23571-CHA
IMPLEMENT ATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35820)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
06/26/2002
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/3 1/0 1)
Currency Unit = Yuan
YlI.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1 = Y8.28
METRIC SYSTEM
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    -      Country Assistance Strategy
CIB    -      China Investment Bank
CMG    -      Changzhou Municipal Government
COD    -      Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPB    -      Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR    -      Economic Rate of Return
FIRR   -      Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOC    -      Government of China
IRR    -      Internal Rate of Return
JEPB   -      Jiangsu Environmental Protection Bureau
JEPPO -       Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project Office
MOF    -      Ministry of Finance
NEPA   -      National Environmental Protection Agency
NPV    -      Net Present Value
PMO    -      Project Management Office
SEPC   -      State Environmental Protection Commission
SMG    -      Suzhou Municipal Government
TBA    -      Taihu Basin Authority
TCC    -      Technical Cooperation Credit
TVIE   -      Township and Village Industrial Enterprise
WMG    -      Wuxi Municipal Govemrnment
ZMG    -      Zhenjiang Municipal Government
Vice President:  Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Yukon Huang, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:  Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:   Mr. Songsu Choi, EASUR



CHINA
SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
CONTENT'S
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            l
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   18
9. Partner Comments                                                                  19
10. Additional Information                                                          20
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               30
Annex 8. Listing of Industrial Pollution Subprojects                                31






Project ID: P003580                                      Project Name: SOUTHERN JIANGSU
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Team Leader: Songsu Choi                                 TL Unit. EASUR
ICR Type: Cor e ICR                                      Report Date: June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SOUTHERN JIANGSU ENVIRONMENTAL                LIC/TF Number: CPL-35820
PROTECTION PROJECT
Countrv/Department: CHINA                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/29/1989                            Effective:                   06/21/1994
Appraisal.  05/29/1992                               MTR:
Approval:  03/25/1993                             Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2001
Borrotwer/lInplementing Agency. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/JIANGSU PROVINCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                              S. J. Burki
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varma                             Z. Khan (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:  Songsu Choi                              S. Shum
ICR Pritnary Author.  Herbert Boehm
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoty, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, H-UN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outconte: U
Suistainrability: L
Institutional Development Impact. N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. When the project was conceived in the early 1990s, rapid industrialization, urbanization and
population growth in Southern Jiangsu had overwhelmed the natural assimilative capacity of the



environment. Industry was by far the main source of pollution, accounting for 70-80% of the total pollutant
load. In addition, water pollution problems were exacerbated by the lack of infrastructure for wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal. In the absence of adequate environmental policies and management
programs, increasingly severe environmental degradation was having serious ramifications, posing health
hazards and undermining sustainable development. It was in this context that Chinese authorities accorded
high priority to environmental protection in the Southem Jiangsu region, and requested Bank assistance.
Objectives. The overall objective of the project was to reduce the widening gap between economic
development and environmental protection in Southern Jiangsu in an efficient and effective manner. In
particular, the project focussed on water pollution control which was accorded the highest priority in the
environmental management strategy for the region. The specific objectives of the project included: (a)
improvements in the fornulation, monitoring and enforcement of environmental policies and regulations;
(b) enhancement of industrial point source pollution control in both urban and rural areas through the
introduction of cost-effective, low-polluting technology and processes, waste minimization practices and
improved economy of waste treatment; (c) improvements in municipal wastewater management through the
provision of sewerage treatment facilities, and the establishment of an appropriate institutional framework
and a sound cost recovery policy; (d) initiation of toxic/hazard material and waste management; and (e)
strengthening of environmental planning and management capabilities of environmental protection entities
in the region.
Assessment of Development Objectives. The project objectives were in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) as well as the policies of the Govermnent of China (GOC), Jiangsu Province
and the project cities in that they addressed the most pressing environmental problems of the region. In
particular, the project objectives evolved from the environmental strategy and action plans for Southern
Jiangsu which were carried out as part of the extensive project preparation work. To address the inherent
complexities in environmental issues, a "building block" approach was adopted by the provincial and
municipal authorities. This approach seems to also have been reflected in the design of the project.
Consequently, the chosen specific project objectives and the project design all are well-defined and realistic,
but the components lack important connectivity and linkages, except that all four components, in a broad
sense, aim at water pollution abatement. The industrial component, the wastewater component and the
toxic/hazardous pollution component are to a large degree independent from each other, and each could
have been eliminated without jeopardizing the success or failure of the others. This approach not only
increased the complexity of the project, but also resulted in varying degrees of ownership and commitment
to the project. Moreover, the project entities and the Bank accorded greatly dissimilar attention to the
various components. In light of the stated lack of expertise in general environmental management at
provincial and the municipal level at the time of project approval, the project, in hindsight, appears to have
been overly ambitious and complex. Due to the fact that for the industrial pollution control component a
line of credit was made available rather than financing discrete subprojects, an substantial risk element was
introduced into the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following four main components:
- 2-



(a) Industrial Pollution Control Subprojects (US$352.0 M): This featured a line of credit to help
finance investments as well as technical assistance and training for (i) large-scale industrial pollution
control subprojects in the urban areas of Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang; (ii) small-scale
industrial pollution control subprojects in the urban areas of Suzhou and Wuxi; and (iii) pilot township and
village industrial enterprises (TVIE) environmental management subprojects in Greater Suzhou and Wuxi.
(b) Urban Wastewater Management (US$59.5 M): Construction of municipal facilities for urban
wastewater management in Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang.
(c) ToxiclHazardous Waste Management (US$8.0 M): (i) establishment of solid and hazardous waste
management and registration centers in Jiangsu and Wuxi; (ii) establishment of a hazardous material
emergency response center in Wuxi; and (iii) construction of hazardous material storage and transshipment
facilities.
(d) Institutional Building (US$8.8 M): (i) TA in detailed design and project management; (ii) training
for provincial and municipal environmental protection bureaus (EPBs), municipal sewerage companies,
hazardous material storage company and financial agent for industrial pollution control subprojects; and
(iii) provision of specialized monitoring and training equipment for local EPBs.
Assessment of Project Design and Components: Each of the project design components represented an
important priority in the province's overall objective to contribute to water pollution abatement in the
region. As pointed out above, the individual components were markedly disparate in size and in nature
requiring greatly diverse implementation approaches. Over 80 percent of total project funding was set aside
for a line of credit to finance industrial pollution control subprojects. The design of this component
overestimated the capacity of the municipal project offices, the EPBs and the Jiangsu Branch of the China
Investment Bank (CIB), to efficiently carry out this component. The CIB branch in Jiangsu, at the time of
appraisal, had insufficient experience with industrial projects, so the project included additional training
during implementation. Because the municipal authorities remained dissatisfied with CIB's performance
during project implementation, they used them merely as appraisal agents. As the capacity of subproject
repayment became an increasingly important issue during project implementation, particularly in the face
of a slowdown in the Chinese economy, the primary focus on pollution abatement became less pronounced
and subprojects which emphasized positive economic rates of returns were selected over those within the
environmental strategy. The urban wastewater management component was well designed and correctly
identified and addressed the main water quality objectives of the region. The design of the toxic/hazardous
waste and materials management component lacked conceptual strength as the municipalities should
primarily be involved in regulation and enforcement rather than provision of services. Admittedly, this
notion was not as strongly defined in China at the time the project was prepared. Consequently, the
government's commitinent to this component greatly changed during project implementation and in the end
only a very small part of this component materialized under the project. The design of the institution
building component correctly took into account the perceived weaknesses of the project implementing
agencies. Nevertheless, the component remained largely unused as the beneficiary entities refused to make
the necessary financial commitmnents for repayment The project design thus failed to foresee the lack of
commitment to this component, a problem experienced with many other projects in China.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-3 -



The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for China at the time.
They also were consistent with government priorities. The Bank's safeguard policies were properly applied.
A plan for involuntary resettlement and land acquisition together with appropriate monitoring indicators
was prepared at appraisal and was carried out successfully in the early stages of the project. Another of
the Bank's chief safeguard concerns, protection of the environment, was the project's primary focus.
The Quality Assurance Group did not exist at the time of Loan approval; therefore quality at entry was not
rated. The project's overall quality at entry is now assessed as unsatisfactory. The project unmistakably
addressed the province's major environmental issues and regulatory weaknesses: water and air pollution by
industry accounting for 70 to 80 percent of the region's pollutant loading and the lack of infrastructure for
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal. Quality at entry by component is elaborated upon below.
The quality at entry of the industrial component is assessed highly unsatisfactory. Considering that this
component comprised over $500 million and 65 subprojects, the rules of subproject selection, the approval
process and subproject supervision should have been defined more clearly in advance. As it was, they
remained a continuing cause for confusion and misunderstandings between the project partners and the
Bank. The organization, procedures and operating rules under which this component was supposed to be
administered were set out only superficially in the documents. Moreover, the capacity of CIB and the
project offices which were to implement this immensely large and complex component was substantially
overestimated at appraisal. In fact, the municipal finance bureaus had to increasingly assume the
management of the portfolio, a role not anticipated during preparation. Furthermore, the design of the
industrial subproject did not adequately foresee nor protect against the possibilities of the effect of external
factors, such as substantial market changes and negative price trends for products to be marketed by the
industrial enterprises involved. As it turned out, many of these subproject enterprises faced major
production and financial difficulties because they underestimated their domestic and/or global competition
and overestimated the market potential for their products. It should also be noted that this component was
increased in size after appraisal through the partial inclusion of a chemical project which the Bank and the
provincial government had decided during project preparation not to proceed with. The primary focus of
most enterprises was, not surprisingly, on production improvements and the development of new markets
for their products and services rather than on pollution abatement as the primary goal.
With regard to the wastewater component, the quality at entry is assessed as highly satisfactory. The
implementation and operational assumptions were very reasonable. The proposed works in the cities of
Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang were consistent with the long-term water quality master plan The quality
of entry of the toxic and hazardous waste management component is assessed as unsatisfactory. This topic
was very new in China at the time of project preparation and it was difficult to formulate a component that
would properly address the major problems in this area. Not surprisingly, only a small part of the
component was actually implemented under the project, as some parts were either eliminated, such as the
construction of the hazardous material storage and transshipment facilities, or carried out directly by the
municipalities. The quality of the institution building component is also assessed as unsatisfactory as it
failed to anticipate the reluctance of the project authorities to use TA for project management and to set up
an acceptable mechanism especially for the EPBs and other entities to repay expenditures used for training
and training equipment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconme/achievenment of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is assessed as unsatisfactory as it was only able to partially achieve
- 4-



original project objectives. Although many of the project's physical targets were reached, the project failed
to implement many of its policy and institutional objectives. The industrial pollution control component
financed investments in a total of 65 enterprises. Since the municipalities failed to update their original
environmental strategy action plans, subproject selection was dictated more by financial aspects than by
environmental priority. In contrast, the project was highly successful in achieving improvements in
municipal wastewater management. However, the project failed to make significant improvements in the
formulation, monitoring and enforcement of environmental policies and regulations and was unable to
significantly strengthen environmental planning and management. Also, the proposed improvements in
toxic/hazardous material and waste management were reported to have largely taken place outside the
project.
While the project had little effect on the formulation, monitoring and enforcement of environmental policies
and regulations, it did raise the municipal governments' awareness of the major pollution sources and
strengthened their resolve to remedy the most grievous sources of industrial pollution. Remarkable in this
respect was the decision of Suzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang to close down the pulp and paper mills in their
cities, which were among the worst polluters in Southern Jiangsu, rather than perpetuating the situation
without assurance that the companies' planned investments would achieve the desired results. The project
was less successful in strengthening the environmental planning and management capabilities of the
agencies responsible for environmental protection in the region. Another shortcoming, not significant
compared to the overall highly satisfactory outcome of the wastewater management component, was the
failure to convert the wastewater companies into fully autonomous entities in accordance with the 1994
company law, thus perpetuating their dependence on the municipal public utility bureaus and the finance
bureaus.
The project achieved significantly positive environmental benefits, particularly with respect to
improvements in water and air quality affecting the four municipalities (see Annex I for specific output
indicators). The development impact originating from these environmental improvements and from
increased productivity and efficiency of the 65 industrial subprojects are assessed to be, on balance,
considerable despite the financial difficulties experienced by some of the enterprises. Most industrial
enterprises are able to generate adequate returns to sustain their subproject investments. In hindsight, it
appears that environmental benefits could have been increased considerably by the selection of subprojects
with higher environmental priority. Some of the higher priority projects were not able to meet the IRR and
ERR criteria and had to be dropped, as restructuring efforts by the Bank of such enterprises have rarely
been successful. Likewise, the wastewater companies enjoy not only strong municipal support for their
operations, but have in the past received approvals for several tariff increases to properly operate and
maintain their plants. Although the tariff approval process is not solely based on financial grounds as
covenanted under the Loan Agreement, long-term sustainability of the wastewater companies is not likely
to be jeopardized with new sector financial policies recommended by the Governnent.
The project fell somewhat short of achieving the objectives for environmental improvement of the water
bodies in the project area set out in the 1992 Environmental Strategy and Action Plan. Water quality in the
fishing and tourist areas did not fully meet original expectations. The quality of water sources for
agriculture actually deteriorated somewhat as the improvements from the mainly urban-based project could
not compensate for the increased agricultural run-offs and the significantly higher pollution from TVIEs.
The quality of industrial water sources also remained below expected improvement levels, particularly in
the inner river of the Changjiang in Zhenjiang. However, water quality in the main trunk of the Grand
Canal improved as a direct result of the project mainly because the pulp and paper mills and the steel mills
were shut down. Unfortunately, the overall pollution in the urban rivers still remains serious. Also, the
water quality in Tai Lake has not only deteriorated to levels projected in the 1992 Environmental Strategy
-5-



and Action Plan, but actually is reported to continue to deteriorate with eutrophication reaching very
serious levels. The impact of rapid urbanization and industrialization in Southem Jiangsu on the Tai Lake
basin appears to have been significantly underestimated by the original plan. To reverse this trend, the
borrower has begun to prepare a new environmental project specifically focusing on the Tai Lake with
assistance from a Japanese PHRD grant.
Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement played an exceedingly minor role in the project considering
its size. About 370 persons were resettled as part of the urban wastewater management component in
accordance with the agreements reached with the Bank and in line with local resettlement policies and
regulations. The resettlement was completed prior to the first disbursement for this component. Similarly,
land acquisition for the wastewater treatment facilities was finalized in a satisfactory manner before
construction commenced.
4.2 Outputs by comportents:
Including the industrial subprojects, the project overall contained 73 subcomponents--a most ambitious
effort not only at the design stage, but especially during actual project implementation. Considering the
project's complexity and the generally more risky nature of industrial projects compared to, say, general
infrastructure projects, the achievements of the individual subcomponents were, on balance, admirable.
(a)    Industrial Pollution Control Subprojects: This component included a total of 65 industrial
subprojects with an actual investment value of about $507 million. They ranged from small-scale industrial
pollution subprojects and pilot investments for township and village industrial enterprise investments, to
large-scale industrial pollution control subprojects in the four urban areas of Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou
and Zhenjiang. The investments extended over a very broad range: from $300,000 (100 percent financed by
the Bank) for a wool-dying plant, to a $52 million ($4 million financed by the Bank) pollution subproject
for the Yanshan Industry Group. Most subprojects can claim some environmental benefits, with some
achieving impressive reductions in the main pollutants emanating from the enterprises. None of the
enterprises experienced an increase in pollutants as result of their investments funded under the project.
Most importantly, the four pulp and paper mnills in three of the project cities, some of the largest single
source polluters in Southern Jiangsu in the past, were closed or relocated as a direct result of the municipal
authorities' realization that the planned investments in the inefficient mills would be neither technically nor
economically justified. These decisions undoubtedly had a significant positive impact on the province's
environmental conditions. Especially the closing of the Hongye paper mnill in Suzhou, which, at $81.7
million (with a proposed Bank loan of $42 million), was the largest industrial subproject in the SAR,
eliminated the major single source of industrial pollution to the Grand Canal.
Implementation of the industrial pollution control component experienced considerable delays for the first
few years, but with the Bank's assistance, implementation accelerated in mid-1995. Of the 40 sampled
subprojects, 17 did not reach design capacity, while 23 reached or exceeded it. The main reasons for not
reaching the design capacity were sluggish or overestimated market demand. Due to a longer than expected
review process by CIB and the Bank, unexpected implementation delays and especially counterpart funding
problems, two-thirds of the subprojects recorded completion delays of at least three months. A review of
investment costs of 40 sampled subprojects showed that 23 enterprises were able to implement their
investments below appraisal estimates; 16 above appraisal estimates; and one at the same value. Economic
and financial benefits overall for the large-scale industrial subprojects stayed below original expectations,
but all had positive internal rates of return (IRRs) with only four enterprises reporting less than a 15%
return on their investments. All but three of the small-scale and TVIE subprojects in the sample recorded
profits on their investments as well. Two of the enterprises had to declare bankruptcy due to problems in
- 6-



their core operations. The reasons for some of the lower than expected results are explained as the result of
(a) lack of local bank commitments; (b) incorrect assessments of the company's long-term viability; (c)
nonpayment of land exchange fees; (d) loose enforcement of the technical provisions of contracts; and (e)
improper equipment supplies.
Over half of the subprojects (21 of 40) in the sample faced difficult market conditions compared to original
expectations. Many of the enterprises underestimated competition as well as global and/or domestic
demand and failed to protect themselves adequately from falling market prices. In particular, the chemical
industry subprojects and construction materials producers suffered from overly optimistic market
assessments.
Due to repayment problems with their loans, the revolving small-scale and TVIE subprojects failed to
demonstrate long-term viability of a revolving finance facility. Again using the 40 sampled subprojects, six
enterprises were in arrears with either their principle repayments, their interest payments, or both.
Had this been essentially an industrial sector project with production improvement as its primary target,
this component could have been assessed as satisfactory. However, since it was clearly labelled an
environmental project with clearly defined environmental objectives, the question arises whether the
selected portfolio reflected the highest priority of environmental needs in Southem Jiangsu at the time of
subproject selection. As no environmental action plans were available after 1992, the selection of
subprojects could not conceivably have been carried out in an entirely systematic and rational manner.
Consequently, this component must be assessed as unsatisfactory.
(b)    Urban wastewater management component: All three project cities have physically completed
construction. The new sewerage facilities now have a total treatment capacity of 340,000 tons/day. In
addition, 106 km of sewer lines were laid. Wuxi worked hard to complete their project quickly and actually
started operation of the facilities two years ahead of its timetable while Changzhou started right in the year
originally anticipated. Zhenjiang recorded about a two-year delay because of technical and counterpart
funding problems. Total investment cost for the component was well managed and thus stayed below the
appraisal estimate. The component fully met the water quality objectives as set out in each city's long-term
water quality master plan. The three facilities built under the project will be capable of reducing COD by
over 40,000 tons/year resulting in water quality improvements in the Grand Canal as well as some of the
respective urban water bodies.
However, contrary to expectations, the three wastewater companies remain dependent on the municipal
public utility and finance bureaus. A board of directors for each of the companies has not yet been set up
and assets have not been transferred to the companies as was promised. Thus, the companies have not yet
reached the level of autonomy expected at appraisal. Fearful of currency fluctuations, Wuxi and
Changzhou prepaid their 15-year loans. Zhenjiang is current on loan repayments. There were several long
periods where there were no or only insufficient tariff adjustments as covenanted under the Project
Agreements. Nevertheless, actual service charges and fees have been satisfactory to meet at least the
companies' operating expenses, but rarely were sufficient to fully meet all financial covenants under the
Bank loan. Over the long term, this would have jeopardized the companies' financial viability had the
Government not recently implemented guidelines for financial sector policies which aim at adequate cost
recovery levels through user charges. Also, the municipal governments have repeatedly expressed their
strong commitment to the companies and assured that these companies will not be allowed to incur defaults
or long-term operating losses. With its excellent contribution to the environment, despite some
financial uncertainties, this component is assessed as highly satisfactory.
- 7-



(c)      Toxic/Hazardous Waste Management: Under the project, solid and hazardous waste registration
centers were supposed to be established at the provincial level and at the municipal level in Wuxi as an
integral part of the respective EPBs. The provincial government opted, however, for establishing the center
with its own resources outside the project and without the technical assistance input anticipated at
appraisal. The provincial center prepared several studies, including an initial survey in 1995 of the
hazardous waste producers in the province. However, little follow-up analysis was done. The center also
failed to build close build linkages with the EPBs, shown by its failure to utilize resources available to the
EPBs. Funds earmarked in the project for the registration center in Wuxi were used for air and water
monitoring equipment.
The Wuxi hazardous material storage and transshipment center was taken out of the project in 1997 by the
municipality because, after review with Bank missions, it was considered that the private sector, as the
main consumer of hazardous material, should construct and operate such facilities and the role of the
municipality should be one of regulator rather than service provider. The hazardous material emergency
response center was constructed in 1995, and most of the project funds were used to upgrade the Wuxi fire
fighting branch station mainly by supplying specialized equipment. Originally designed as a pilot facility, it
failed to provide training and guidance to industry on accident prevention and emergency response
preparedness.
The objectives of this component were ambitious, but the design and implementation needs were not well
thought through. Most importantly for success, strong, sustained commitment from the provincial
govemrnment was required. This commitment, however, never materialized. Also, due to the substantial size
and complexity of the industrial and wastewater management components, sustained emphasis by the
project authorities and the Bank's supervision missions was not given to the toxic/hazardous waste
management component which, in the end, met its objective -- if at all -- then outside the project, and
therefore is assessed as unsatisfactory.
(d)      Technical Assistance and Training Component: This component was well prepared with great
detail, but its implementation was disappointing despite assurances by Jiangsu during negotiations that
training and institution building would be carried out in accordance with the program described in the SAR.
Most technical assistance was limited to the design stage of the project. In the case of the wastewater
companies, the foreign project implementation consultant provided some training and organized a study
tour. In contrast to the other project agencies, the wastewater companies took better advantage of the
technical assistance and training opportunities provided. Training as envisaged for the toxic and hazardous
material management and for those branches of the EPBs and the CIB involved in the project was not
carried out.
The revision of the environmental strategy and action plans for Southem Jiangsu lagged badly behind its
original time schedule and consequently was of only limited value during implementatiorL Furthermore, the
Borrower failed to utilize and routinely update the environmental improvement monitoring indicators,
which would have demonstrated to what extent the project was achieving its envirorunental targets. In April
2001, the Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project Office (JEPPO) presented a review of environmental
strategy which, albeit valuable, was too late to have a meaningful impact on project implementation.
The involved city agencies and the wastewater companies clearly learned greatly from the project and
increased their implementation capacity. The wastewater companies in particular benefited from the
technological improvements acquired as a result of the project which should enhance future operations of
the facilities. However, the institutional building effect could have been much larger if the provincial
- 8 -



project office would have played a more active and forceful role in the project, and if CIB and the EPBs
would have carried out their prescribed role more effectively. Achievements under this component are
only marginally satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return was not calculated for the whole project at the
appraisal stage. The SAR stated that the project overall would significantly reduce environmental
degradation and achieve economic and social benefits for Southern Jiangsu. The industrial subprojects were
to lower costs for water treatment and urban domestic water supply. Further economic benefits would be
obtained by reducing water-bome diseases and control of toxic/hazardous waste. Further economic benefits
were expected from improvements in irrigation, fish farming, navigation, land values and tourism.
However, the project failed at the design stage to establish the necessary monitoring systems to properly
quantify the desired benefits during project implementation. It is, therefore, not possible to ascertain
whether any of these benefits were achieved and, if so, to what extent. An attempt was made in 1996 to
retrofit the project with some of the missing indicators. This exercise proved difficult and of little use as
measurements for past years were not available, thus no meaningful trendlines could be established.
Under the industrial pollution control component, each subproject was evaluated by CIB as to whether it
would meet certain economic criteria. Each subproject had to be economically viable and generate a
positive NPV at a discount rate of 10 percent. During implementation, two of the investments failed and
thus had no positive NPV. Of the 65 completed subprojects, 36 were sampled and evaluated for their
economic benefits. They all exceeded the planned 10% NPV hurdle. In comparison to expectations at their
original appraisal, the actual results were almost always lower. Only three subprojects exceeded appraisal
projections, two in Suzhou and one in Zhenjiang. The main reasons for the lower results were delays in
construction due to approval process delays; counterpart funding constraints; and unexpected changes in
domestic and foreign markets.
The economic rate of return estimated for the urban wastewater management component at appraisal was
estimated at 16%, including 14% for Zhenjiang, 16% for Wuxi and 17% for Changzhou. These rates were
calculated by quantifying the improvement in: land values, agricultural and fishing production; public and
industrial water supply costs; public health; navigation; and tourism. Unfortunately, as indicated above, the
project design did not institutionalize the monitoring of any of these benefits and, therefore little useful data
is available ex-post to quantify the actually realized economic benefits of the component. As actual
achievements in reducing water treatment costs and health costs are most likely lower than expected, and
because the component had virtually no quantifiable impact on navigation and only little on agriculture,
fishing and tourism, with Suzhou the possible exception, the actual economic rates of return would, ceteris
paribus, be lower than the appraisal rates. By reducing the original economic benefits to those which were
expected for increased land value, public health improvements and water treatment costs, the overall rate
for the wastewater management component would drop from 16 to 11%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not estimated at the appraisal of the project. Other financial indicators did
not fully meet appraisal expectations. For example, tarifl adjustments for the sewerage utilities did not
consistently meet the appropriate financial covenants. The project entities rarely furnished the Bank with
the rolling long-term financial plans required annually as basis of discussion for the companies' past and
future finances. The Bank thus often was unaware of possible financial constraints. Finally, the covenanted
asset transfer to the newly founded sewerage companies has still not taken place.
-9-



In the industrial pollution control component, the project entities failed to effectively enforce subloan
repayment procedures. Out of the 65 subprojects, 28 (i.e., approximately 43%) are in arrears, with the
repayment record in Wuxi by far the worst (69%).
4.5 Institutional developmnent impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been negligible overall. At appraisal it was hoped that
the project would support important institutional measures in order to improve the monitoring and
enforcement of environmental regulations, corporatization of sewerage utilities and establishment of sound
cost recovery policies. While the project surely aided the authorities in raising awareness about
environmental regulations and decisions, the actual institutional impact remained well below project
expectations. The development of the EPBs through the project at the provincial and municipal levels was
only marginal. The comprehensive training program readied in the project to strengthen their institutional
capabilities remained largely unused. Although the Borrower indicated that the EPBs used their own funds
for annual training programs, these activities remained outside the Bank's influence and supervision and
thus their effectiveness is unknown.
During project preparation, extensive work was done in 1992 on a coherent environmental strategy and
action plans for Southern Jiangsu. Multifaceted action plans were developed at the municipal level and
thereafter aggregated at the provincial level. Continuous updating and timely improvements of these plans
were foreseen as a dynamic process during implementation and beyond. These plans, however, were not
given the proper priority as requested by Bank supervision missions and were not revised and updated
regularly and, therefore failed to provide potentially useful guidance to the cities' regulatory responsibilities
and investment decisions. Although covenanted, the Borrower, to a large degree, also failed to prepare and
present to the Bank annual progress reports on the implementation agenda for the strategy and action
planning process.
Within the industrial pollution control component, initial screening of the proposed subprojects was done
by the EPBs and financial bureaus, but the actual appraisal of the selected subprojects was carried out by
CIB as agent for the municipal govemments. CIB retained consultants as required for the appraisal
exercise. This process, overall, worked well. However, the full role of CIB in project supervision and
sub-loan administration did not develop as planned due to concems at both the provincial and municipal
govemment levels as to the effectiveness of CIB in loan administration, where CIB was not bearing any of
the credit risks. CIB continued to provide subproject supervisory services and advice to the project offices,
but loan administration was directly carried out by the municipal finance bureaus through the municipal
project offices. Unfortunately, the Borrower failed to officially notify the Bank of this important change to
project implementation. Bank missions also failed to realize almost until the end of the project that CIB was
not performing as covenanted.
This change had a negative impact on project implementation, because:
*   the extensive training and technical assistance anticipated for CIB at appraisal was not performed
and, more importantly, was not extended to the agencies charged with responsibilities taken over from CIB;
*   there was a lack of uniformity, effectiveness in project monitoring and administration in two of the
municipalities less capable of assuming the CIB role;
*   no matching increase was allowed in the staffing and effectiveness of the provincial project office;
and
* monitoring of the financial performance of the beneficiary enterprises was less rigorous than
originally anticipated.
- 10-



The revolving funds for small-scale TVIE subprojects operated by Suzhou and Wuxi were much less
effective than originally planned as the municipal authorities had no close administrative or historical ties to
the TVIEs, as was the case with the other industrial subprojects. By the end of 1998, i.e., more than four
years after Loan effectiveness, Bank missions still complained that rules and regulations for the revolving
fund subprojects had not yet been implemented. The small-scale loans were basically handled similarly to
the large-scale loans and thus the revolving nature was lost. Thus, contrary to original expectations, the
project failed to demonstrate that the establishment of environmental revolving funds for small-scale
environmental investments and township and village industrial subprojects could raise the flow of funds for
these types of projects on a sustainable basis.
Under the urban wastewater management component, the sewerage companies assumed a significantly
greater role as a result of the project. Nevertheless, the companies have not attained the full operational
and financial autonomy expected at appraisal. In particular, no boards of directors have been set up to
enhance the separation of ownership and management although each company has promulgated a fornal
charter. In accordance with the Loan Agreement, a sewerage tariff study was carried out although at a
lower level than anticipated at appraisal and funded on a grant basis outside the project. While the findings
and recommendations of the study carried out in 1996/7 were welcomed by the municipalities, the
provincial price revision authority, contrary to the Borrower's agreement with the Bank, arbitrarily denied
price adjustments beyond those conceded for Nanjing, the capital city. Consequently, the lack of tariff
adjustments affected the financial viability of the companies. There was some limited training for the
benefit of the sewerage companies financed under the project.
The toxic/hazardous waste management component was, to a large degree, eliminated from the project
unilaterally by the Borrower. The Borrower failed to inform the Bank in a timely fashion about the
decision. The provision for requisite technical assistance and training for the concerned local agencies,
which were seen to have little experience in toxic/hazardous waste management, took place outside the
project. In particular, the solid and hazardous waste management and registration centers reportedly work
well. The assertion about the successful implementation of this component, however, has not been
confirmned by appropriate documentation by the Borrower nor sufficiently verified by Bank missions.
At appraisal, the project had set aside an amount of $8.8 million for technical assistance and training
activities. At loan closing, only $342,000 was utilized. While especially the municipal project offices
gained valuable exposure and experience in implementing the project, which is further analyzed in the
Borrower Performance section of this report, on balance, the overall institutional development impact of the
project is assessed as negligible. The unused funds for this component were cancelled.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or inmplementing agency:
The industrial pollution control component was substantially affected by the global economic slowdown in
the mid-to-late 1990's. In particular, the Asian financial crisis starting in 1997 had a negative impact on
the market for many of the products produced by the enterprises participating in the large-scale industrial
pollution subprojects, as these enterprises were geared to exporting to that region. Both demand for a
number of the products and world market prices for them declined precipitously. Simultaneously, domestic
markets became more sluggish and price conscious, preventing the enterprises from quickly developing
alternative markets in China itself. For example, the export of specialized polyester was considerably lower
than anticipated and a domestic market had to be developed resulting in implementation delays and a lower
economic benefit for the enterprise. Of 26 subprojects sampled, 17 faced more difficult market conditions
- 11 -



than originally anticipated. Because of these trends, sources of counterpart funding, including commercial
banks and government programs, became increasingly restrictive causing significant delays in subproject
completion, cutbacks in production capacity of several enterprises, and in several cases, the withdrawal of
subproject proposals.
Impact of Bank's performance. Some of the previously described design weaknesses of the project,
particularly those relating to the industrial pollution control component and the toxic/hazardous waste
management component could have been avoided had the Bank insisted on a stronger and more appropriate
organizational set-up. The provincial and municipal governments had little prior experience with
administering a half-billion dollar environmental investment portfolio. As the extremely slow start-up and
the relatively poor results of the final outcome demonstrate, these components would have needed an
implementation unit with a strong management structure consisting of qualified experts from within China
or, if necessary, from overseas. Likewise, the toxic/hazardous waste management component was not
properly prepared and the Bank should have provided more guidance to strengthen this component.
Also, the Bank's lackluster performance in supervising the project early in implementation, had a negative
impact on the project. Continuity between the appraisal team and the supervision team was poor, and the
first task manager was too inexperienced for this large, complex project. Little effort was apparently made
to evaluate the project's appraisal results upon effectiveness, which came two years later. See Bank
performance for more detail.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several of the industrial pollution subprojects were negatively affected by the government's
macroeconomic policies, which cannot be isolated from the Asian financial crisis. The reduction of three
million automobiles in the Ninth Five-Year Plan, for example, significantly reduced the production of
oil-seals for a rubber manufacturer in Wuxi. Likewise, the government's macro controls curtailed markets
for reinforced steel, carbon steel, specialized steel wire, and many chemical products for the domestic
manufacturing and construction industry, while at the same time some raw materials costs increased. The
government's policy on increased opening of foreign markets had a pronounced effect on prices for
construction materials and chemicals. Thus, of 26 subprojects sampled, 15 reported considerable impacts
on their business from these economic policies.
Lack of counterpart funding caused delays in eight of the 41 large-scale industrial pollution control
subprojects. In the city of Changzhou. the Brewery General and Liyang Chemical enterprises had to stop
construction for more than one year in 1997 due to lack of funds. In the city of Zhenjiang, the Zhenjiang
General Smelting Plant stopped production of non-stainless steel and the Danyang Fertilizer Plant also
could not proceed as projected. In the city of Wuxi, three companies out of 18 had major funding problems.
In Changshu, the Changshu Chemical Factory reported counterpart funding problems as well. Only in the
city of Suzhou did large-scale subprojects have no major counterpart funding problems as the city was very
prudent in the selection of its subprojects and vigilant in ensuring their financial viability. In contrast to the
industrial pollution component, the sewerage companies in the three project cities greatly benefited from the
national economic infrastructure support and avoided any difficulties with counterpart funding.
Another factor negatively impacting the project was the provincial government's reluctance to make
adequate financial commitment in the project and to devise appropriate repayment policies. In fact, the
provincial authorities advised the agencies, even those without revenue generation, that they would have to
repay funds borrowed for the purpose of technical assistance and training. Consequently, the funds set
aside for TA and training remained virtually unused.
- 12 -



Further factors were the two-year delay between appraisal and project effectiveness (from February 1992
to March 1994); the failure to assign to CIB the required authority to carry out its responsibilities for
project supervision or to substitute CIB with an equivalent structure to manage the industrial pollution
subproject portfolio; the unwillingness to establish a strong and pro-active provincial project office to
manage and coordinate this complex project; and the failure to adjust sewerage tariffs to fully comply with
the financial covenants in the Loan Agreement.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management effectiveness. The management effectiveness of the project offices at the city level was on
average satisfactory. However, as they were asked to assume a large portion of the responsibilities
originally assigned to CIB, their staffing in terms of required skills and experience was inadequate. Neither
the provincial finance staff nor the provincial project office provided a leadership role and training capacity
for the cities. In fact, management effectiveness at the provincial project office was weak throughout the
entire project implementation period, failing to provide the necessary monitoring, coordination and
leadership to the city project offices.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Cost: Total costs up to the full completion of the project are now estimated at $590.3 million, which is
very close to the appraisal estimate of $588.0 million (base cost of $432 million; contingencies amounting
to $118.6 million; and capitalized interest during construction of $37.4 million). Large discrepancies in this
type of project can usually be avoided as the Borrower enjoys broad latitude in adding or withholding
subprojects to match the available Bank financing. For industrial pollution subprojects an estimated
amount of $507.0 million have been expended or about 5.8 percent more than the $479.1 million
anticipated at appraisal. The urban wastewater management component was completed at an estimated cost
of $81.2 million, 11 percent below the appraisal estimate of $91.3 million. The increased amount for the
industrial pollution component was possible because the Borrower spent only $2.1 million for the
hazardous waste management component, the TA and training component and for other miscellaneous
items combined, whereas the appraisal had set aside $17.6 million for these components. As described
above, for TA and training the Borrower used only $342,000 from the $3 million provided under the Loan
while its own training efforts, estimated at appraisal to cost another $5.8 million, were not included in the
project estimates. Construction of all works was completed by December 31, 2001. The Borrower sought
no extension of the closing date.
Finance: The original Bank loan amount was $250 million. The final amount disbursed amounted to
$241.5 million after the cancellation of an unutilized balance of $8,494,012.52 at Loan closing on June 30,
2001. Thus, the Bank loan accounted for about 41% of project financing; the balance of $348.8 million, or
51 %, stemmed from domestic sources, of which the government contributed $199.8 million and enterprises
$149.0 million. Thus, actual Bank financing came close to the 42% projected at appraisal. However,
enterprises were expected to contribute about $133 million more at appraisal. Consequently, the
government had to make up for the shortfall, as many enterprises were unable to generate sufficient funds
because of market conditions and overly ambitious expectations.
It should be noted that the repayment problems by some of the subproject enterprises in the industrial
pollution component did not and will not affect the repayment of the Bank loan as the cities make the
required payments to the provincial government even if the enterprises are in arrears with their payments.
This, of course, put added pressure on municipal finances.
- 13-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability for the project is rated likely. Because of the wide diversity of scope, structure, market
dependence, ownership commitment and quality of enterprise management, the realism of assigning a single
rating for sustainability of the industrial pollution component is questionable; however, taken together it
would appear to be likely. These 65 industrial enterprises have experienced and, with the exception of a
few, survived very difficult economic developments during the 90's. Nevertheless, most have adjusted well
to policy and market changes and, as indicated with their on-average encouraging ERRs, are ready to
compete successfully in the increasingly competitive domestic and/or foreign market places. Because of
their favorable cost structure and the support they have and will receive from the municipalities, which did
make substantial financial contributions to these enterprises, there is a good foundation for maintaining the
subproject achievements over the economic life of the investment.
The urban wastewater component in the cities of Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhenjiang is completed and fully
operational. Its sustainability is likely as the cities are deeply commritted to improving the region's water
bodies, including the Grand Canal and Tai Lake. The provincial and municipal governments are aware that
the proper disposal and treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater affect water supply sources to a
large extent and, indirectly, fishing, tourism, and the health of its population. To this end, the government
has asked for Bank assistance in improving the enviromnental condition of Tai Lake as a follow-up project
to this one. However, a certain measure of concern has to be expressed in this context as the authorities
have in the past been relatively slow and reluctant to make tariff adjustments, thereby placing the financial
viability of the three wastewater companies at risk, in particular since the companies have not obtained the
full financial autonomy promised at appraisal and during negotiations. New government policies
conceming cost recovery for utilities have made it easier to obtain approvals for tariff increases when
needed. Also, on the plus side, the debt service of two (Changzhou and Wuxi) of the three companies has
been greatly reduced because they repaid the Bank loan prematurely to reduce the future exchange risks.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the 65 subprojects under the industrial pollution component have been operating for several years.
No transitional arrangements for the individual enterprises were foreseen at appraisal and have actually not
been instituted by the municipal or provincial governments. During supervision of the project, the Bank had
recommended that appropriate monitoring mechanisms for pollution abatement be developed, but this was
not done. Likewise, the Bank requested that the Borrower devise relevant monitoring indicators for both the
wastewater companies and the monitoring of the environment for the future operation of the wastewater
companies. In November 1997, a Bank mission prepared a comprehensive outline for "Environmental
Indicators." The government's ICR contribution included an excellent report comparing the environmental
achievements during the project period, but failed to project forward what needs to be done to sustain the
past achievements into the future, including the requirements for future resources and the need for further
policy development.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Upon review, Bank overall performance is rated unsatisfactory in the lending phase.
- 14 -



The Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory as the Bank recognized the urgency and priority
of addressing the needs for environmental protection in Southern Jiangsu. The project concept was
compatible with the government's priorities and the Bank's CAS. The Bank initiated and monitored
various preinvestment studies at the regional and municipal levels where the Bank's assistance can be most
advantageous.
During the preparation phase of the project, the Bank provided extensive assistance to Jiangsu Province
and the four municipal governments in the formulation of a coherent strategy and action plans, whose main
focus was improving water quality. The design of the project attempted to support this focus, and clearly,
the design of the proposed wastewater improvements was quite successful in this respect. Initially, the
industrial pollution control component was also directed towards this goal; however, this component
project's final design failed to ensure that the focus on industrial pollution abatement would remain during
implementation. As this component was by far the largest, the project's design overall was insufficiently
directed toward achieving this objective. Thus, the performance of the Bank in preparation must be
assessed as unsatisfactory.
The Bank's performance in appraisal is also assessed as unsatisfactory. The main reason for this rating lies
in the fact that the Bank failed to assist the Borrower to establish an appropriate organizational structure
with the necessary management and staffing to administer the industrial pollution subprojects. The
selection of CIB as the appraisal and supervision agent for the municipal authorities was poor. Although
CIB carried out appraisals and completion reports of all subprojects, their supervisory functions, including
procurement advice and review, disbursement and loan repayment collection, were found unsatisfactory
and taken away by the Borrower without Bank approval. The lack of a qualified financial agent and the
lack of a coherent supervisory body were sorely missed during the entire project implementation period. In
retrospect, this could have been avoided at the lending stage. CIB had some previous experience in the
field, but was clearly not set up to adequately administer a line of credit of over $500 million for some 65
industrial pollution subprojects. Its weaknesses were known to the appraisal team as CIB needed Bank
assistance during project preparation to improve its appraisal work, and moreover, additional training for
CIB was included in the project.
It also seems that the toxic/hazardous waste and material management component was insufficiently
designed and prepared. The Wuxi hazardous material storage and transshipment subcomponent was
cancelled by the municipality as it felt a commercial entity should carry out these functions. The municipal
government prefers to function as a regulator rather than a service provider in this field.
Finally, the institutional building component appears to have been too ambitious as the Borrower preferred
to carry out many of the training activities with their own funds, thus avoiding foreign exchange risks and
retaining expensive foreign consultants. Whether the Borrower's decisions have resulted in equally effective
training programs cannot be ascertained, as the Bank has not evaluated the programs.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory in the urban wastewater component, but
unsatisfactory in regard to the industrial pollution control, the toxic/hazardous waste management, and the
institutional building components.
Given the complexity of the project, Bank management expected that supervision inputs by the Bank would
substantially exceed normal Bank averages. The need for supervision work, particularly the fielding of
comprehensive missions, was a given in light of the following: the initially very slow implementation
- 15 -



progress, the lack of a coherent and effective project management structure particularly in the beginning of
the project, the weaknesses of the provincial oversight of the project throughout the project cycle, the
multitude of problems and issues permeating project implementation, and the poor compliance with some of
the loan covenants. However, due to the 15-month delay in loan effectiveness, none of the staff on the
appraisal mission were available during the supervision phase. Moreover, initial supervision responsibility
was assigned to new Bank staff who had little experience in project implementation. After disappointing
results in project progress, the Bank assigned well-qualified and experienced staff who were effective in
expediting Bank approvals and who got the industrial component back on track. Regaining lost momentum
on the institutional building component was given a lower priority, which subsequently proved impossible
to make up.
The Bank carried out only eight formal supervision missions over the eight-year implementation period,
i.e., on average one per year. Most of this field work took place in the later stages of the project. Some of
these missions, especially after 1996, were of very short duration and in conjunction with other field work
in the region. A mission planned for summer 2000 was postponed for budgetary reasons.
In general, it appears that the Bank should have been more forceful. Bank staff were always forthright and
materially correct when pointing out deficiencies in aide-memoires or in back-to-office reports, but they
could at times have been more proactive and rigorous, especially with trying to ensure an effective
provincial project office; ensuring that CIB played an effective role or that there was a satisfactory
alternative; pursuing vigorously with the Borrower the failure to make appropriate sewerage tariff
adjustments that led to violations of loan covenants; and ensuring that some significant proportion of the
objectives of the institutional building component would be met.
Insofar as the urban wastewater management component is concerned, the Bank was very effective in
assisting three municipal governments in their efforts to improve the wastewater conditions in their cities.
The success of the urban wastewater management component shows the result of the excellent
collaboration between the parties. The Bank also provided resources from its own budget to carry out the
sewerage tariff studies, which the Borrower was supposed to carry out by June 30, 1994, but failed to do
so.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory although the urban wastewater management
component was well prepared and the Bank's role in supervision contributed to the exceedingly successful
completion of this component. The weaknesses in the lending phase of the project and the failure to address
some of the major project issues at the early phases of implementation, particularly concerning oversight
over the industrial pollution control, the institution building, and the toxic/hazardous waste management
components, weigh too heavily to allow a more favorable overall rating.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the provincial and municipal authorities was satisfactory during preparation although
the tasks appear to have overwhelmed them at times. Consequently, the start-up phase took longer than
expected as they had problems properly setting up the institutional and management structure to implement
the project and becoming familiar with Bank procedures, such as ICB procurement guidelines and required
report preparation for the Bank and the auditing authority. During preparation, their contribution to the
provincial and municipal environmental strategy and action plans was extensive and effective as these
documents led to the formulation of the project.
- 16-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was unsatisfactory with regard to the
industrial pollution, the toxic/hazardous waste, and the institutional building component. Its performance
concerning the successful urban wastewater, however, was satisfactory. The provincial government failed
to sufficiently strengthen the provincial project office rendering it unable to discharge its intended
responsibilities as an effective coordinator and leader for the municipal agencies and city project offices.
The role of CIB was substantially reduced without Bank approval. Furthermore, it disapproved, in
violation of financial covenants of the Loan Agreement, some of the municipal requests for sewerage tariff
adjustments. It also failed to support some of the TA and training activities needed for the EPBs, CIB and
other agencies due to its policy of imposing repayment from the receiving agency.
The municipal goverrunents provided counterpart funding for the project, although it was occasionally
delayed due to budgetary constraints. In fact, their overall contributions to the project substantially
exceeded the originally expected level of financing as the subproject enterprises had difficulty coming up
with their own funds. However, the Borrower failed to provide the sewerage companies with full financial
and organizational autonomy including an independent board of directors. Despite comprehensive
discussions with the relevant agencies, the audit reports remained of poor quality and lacked the suggested
improvements sought by the Bank.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, the performance of the implementing agencies at the municipal level was satisfactory with
regard to the urban wastewater component, but unsatisfactory with regard to the other components. While
the city project offices did an admirable job implementing the hardware aspects of the project, they often
ignored their responsibilities towards the so-called software aspects, such as institution building,
implementation and appropriate revisions of the environmental strategy and action plans, establishing
project monitoring indicators, preparing covenanted annual rolling financial long-term plans for the
sewerage companies, and preparing project reporting in a timely way.
Because CIB's function was substantially curtailed, the municipal authorities were compelled to assume a
much larger role than originally planned at appraisal. This put added pressure on the project offices that
were not set up or staffed to adrninister a portfolio of 65 subprojects for over $500 million in addition to
their normal tasks. This resulted in less than adequate monitoring and supervision of the subprojects.
Consequently, many of the marketing and debt servicing problems that can be expected in any large
portfolio of industrial projects were unanticipated so that early corrective remedies, where applicable, were
not always identified and applied. On several occasions, the Bank had to admonish the Borrower about the
lack of an active policy to improve the repayment rates of sub-borrowers, the need to improve financial
management at the enterprises, and to set up effective supervision and monitoring indicators. It should be
noted that the Suzhou project office was significantly more successful than the others in addressing some of
these problems.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, the Borrower's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory although its commitment to the
physical project completion is commendable.
- 17 -



8. Lessons Learned
The most significant lessons leamed from the project are the following:
(a)    For large investment funds, such as those under the industrial pollution control subproject
component, the managerial, technical and financial capacity of the administering agency need to be
carefully assessed prior to project implementation. If this capacity is in doubt, then a smaller pilot
fund would be more desirable to build up the necessary expertise and to set up the required
organizational and procedural systems.
(b)    The industrial component of the project was designed at a time when much of Chinese
industry was under direct government control and authorities were extremely reluctant to strictly
enforce pollution discharge standards, let alone to shut down non-complying enterprises. This is no
longer the case as GOC has moved more toward the position of regulator than operator of
industrial enterprises. China has decided that such projects are now best left to normal financial
intermediaries with no role for the Bank.
As also recommended by the borrower such components should be carried out by financial
intermediaries.
(c)    Institution building, including technical assistance and training programs, as well as policy
changes and studies are an inherent and cohesive part of most Bank financed projects. Strong
project ownership by the borrower for all these software components is needed at the prepration
stage of the project. Timely implementation of these activities often has a direct impact on the
success or failure of a project. It is essential that the TA and training components be carefully
prepared by the Borrower with the Bank's assistance and that the Borrower make a firm ownership
and commitment to their implementation. As part of project preparation, the Borrower needs to
devise satisfactory onlending policies. As part of its oversight and supervisory responsibilities, the
Borrower needs to monitor the systematic and timely implementation of these activities.
(d)    Realistic market assessments with the assistance of independent experts, rather than overly
optimistic forecasts by enterprise personnel seeking external funding, should be prepared for new
products or expansion of production. Sensitivity analyses should be prepared to assess the impact
of price changes on the financial viability of the enterprise.
(e)    When project objectives are established at the project's design stage, measures should be
included in the project itself to be able to accurately quantify and monitor their progress throughout
the implementation period and beyond. For example, stating that a project would increase air
quality and the health in the population is meaningless unless baseline studies and regular
follow-ups are done and the necessary equipment and institutional set-up are available.
(f)    Strong initial supervision with staff involved at earlier stages are vital to maintaining the
momentum and motivation of the borrower during implementation. This is especially essential
where there is a hiatus between loan approval and effectiveness. Although not a new lesson, this
project demonstrated the problems that take root when this is neglected.
- 18 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following statement was prepared by the Project Office (JEPPO),
Views on the ICR Report Prepared by the World Bank, for the Southem Jiangsu Environmental Protection
Project
First of all we agree with the most of the views expressed in the ICR report received in March 2002.
There appeared a lot of problems during the implementation of the project, especially the industrial
subprojects as mentioned in the ICR report such as the inadequate counterpart fund, over-estimation of
the product market etc. We just give our views here on the issues raised in the report.
1.     CIB function
During the preparation and negotiation of the project the Bank chose the CIB as an intermediary
financial institute to carry out the function such as the loan disbursement and collection for industrial
subprojects. However, due to its performance in the World Bankfinanced Star Project it was proved that
CIB failed to implement such function. In other words CIB cannot bear such responsibility. So the
Jiangsu provincial authorities decided that the responsibility of the Bank loan disbursement and
collection was moved to the shoulder of the Jiangsu finance bureau, because on that condition only the
finance bureau has such capability. We knew that breached what were set in the loan agreement, but we
had no choice. It proves that we made a right decision with the development of the domestic condition.
CIB does not exist any longer due to the reform.
2.     Hazardous and toxic material management
For this part of the project Jiangsu province committed to use loan. However during the implementation
of the project Jiangsu authority considered that the loan would be too heavy a burden on the relevant
departments because the environmental protection bureau who was the borrower of loan for the project
is a non-profitable institute. Finally it used its own funds to have established the institute based on the
requirements set in the Bank SAR. During the Bank's supervision mission to Jiangsu the Bank staff once
visited the institute and took a review of the studies and study reports carried out by the institute. We do
not know what is the opinion of the World Bank on the achievement that the institute realized, however
the institute is doing what is required to do.
3.     Technical assistance and training component
For this component of the project we only used a very little part of the loan fund we committed. Because
most of the loan would be used for the environmental protection agencies who are non-profitable
institutes. They could not afford such heavy burden of loans. Nevertheless, Jiangsu environmental
protection system has never stopped training for their staff. Actually Jiangsu has been one of the best in
the recent IO years in the whole country. We think without training they cannot obtain such achievement.
4.     Sewage tariff adjustment
Although the sewage component is the only one part which has gained successful result, there is still
disappointing factors. That is the tariff adjustment for sewage treatment charge as we committed during
negotiation. However, this is beyond our control. The nation's policy did not allow so large an
adjustment at that time. Fortunately Jiangsu has now allowed to raise its sewage tariff to such a level
-19-



that it is adequate to cover the operation and maintenance of the sewage companies. Furthermore
Jiangsu is planning to raise the tariff to higher level to allow the sewage companies to have profits. This
cannot been imagined several years ago.
5.    Industrial subprojects loan repayment
During the preparation of the project industrial pollution was the main source on the environment
deterioration, thus the government was urgently introducing funds and technologies to upgrade the
industrial enterprises and improve their performance, and in the meantime to reduce pollution loads. So
actually the CIB carried out more than 40 appraisal of the industrial enterprises within one year. In
other words the market future for the product and their financing capabilities have not been adequately
evaluated, not alone repayment capabilities. Thus some enterprises really sufferedfrom counterpart fund
shortage, and consequently the delay of construction, andfinally the repayment of loan. The government,
during the implementation of the project realized this point and they tried every means to improve this
situation. However their effort could not guarantee all enterprises to fully reach the requirement of the
construction, because on the market condition the local commercial banks could not support those plants
without bright futures. On the other hand the government could not enact such preferential policy for
those few enterprises who have the repayment difficulties. The government only encouraged them to
improve production efficiency to raise the repayment capability.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
The following additional information is provided in Annexes to the ICR:
Annex 8: Listing of industrial pollution control subprojects with key data.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrix ,  .              Projected n last PSR  :  i      , '   ActualILatest'EsUtimat
SUZHOU
Population                       1,030,000                             1,071,000
ZHENJIANG
Populatbon                       395,000                              454,000
Industrial Wastewater Discharged  78.3 million tons                   68.5 million tons
Industrial Wastewater Treated %  52.6                                  77.8
Indusirial COD Discharge (tons)  54,578                               40.043
Numberof Customers Billed        N/A                                   217,100
CHANGZHOU
Populaton                        690,800                               847,600
Industrial Wastewater Discharged  91.9 million tons                    62.2 million tons
Industrial Wastewater Treated %  49.4                                 60.7
Industrial COD Discharge (tons)  25,407                                13,082
Number of Customers Billed       N/A                                   N/A
WUXI
Population                       944,400                               1,084,300
Industrial Wastewater Discharged  27.6 milRion tons                   42.6 million tons
Industrial Wastewater Treated %  30.0                                  56.4
Industrial COD Discharge (tons)  N/A                                   15,717
Number of Customers Billed       N/A                                   N/A
Output Indicators:
jlindi; lndlcatoriMatrix:              ProAectedIn stlPSR           -         -. .   test Estlmate.;.
SUZHOU
WW Plant Capacity (tonsday)     No Wastewater Component               No Wastewater Component
Sewer Lines Laid (km)           No Wastewater Component               No Wastewater Component
ZHENJIANG
WW Plant Capadty (ionsday)      60,0C0                                60,000
Sewer Lines Laid (km)           24                                    27
Water Quality (SAR/Actual)      DO: 8.4; COD mn: 2.75                 DO: 7.4; COD mn: 2.8
CHANGZHOU
WW Plant Capacity (tonsday)     50,000                                50,000
Sewer Lines Laid (km)           20                                    20
WaterQuality (SAR/Actual)       DO: 3.8; COD mn: 12.9                 DO: 4.1; COD mn:8.9
WUXI
WW Plant Capacity (lonsday)     300,000                               300,000
Sewer Lines Laid (km)           44                                    52
Water Quality (SARJActual)      DO: 1.1; COO inn: 8.3                 DO: 2.0; COD mn: 6.2
INDUSTRIAL SUBPROJECTS                NO.: TOTAL INVESTMENT (Y '000)        NO.: TOTAL INVESTMENT (Y '000)
WUXI                                     (Appraisal Estimate)                  (Latest Estimate)
Revolving Fund             11         209,596                    11         177,875
Large-Scale Subprojects    18        1,773,166                   18        1,721,210
SUZHOU
Revolving Fund             13         205,013                    13         137,676
Large-Scale Subprojects    11        1,244,579                   11         987,214
ZHENJIANG
Large-Scale Subprojects    7          632,892                    7          504,644
CHANGZHOU                       4          590,728                    4          575,845
Large-Scale Subprojects                  ,
CHANGSHU                        1          130,403                    1          143,118
Large-Scale Sutprojects
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. -,, - .,,,, . ,, : ..,"' : ,. ,A'ppraisal, 'ActuallLatest 'Percentage
'-.!; ,'' :;k,                     Estimate`"  "Estimaie       Appraisae
Project Cost By 'Component       I    US$'niliior  US$1iion :
Large scale subprojects                           314.00         469.00            150
Small scale and TVIE subprojects                   38.00          38.00           100
Urban Wastewater Management                         59.50          81.20           136
Hazardous Waste Management                           8.00           1.80            23
TA and Training                                      8.80           0.34             4
EPB Monitoring and Training Equipment                1.00
Land Acquisition and Relocation                      2.70
Total Baseline Cost                                432.00         590.34
Physical Contingencies                             43.40           0.00
Price Contingencies                                75.20           0.00
Total Project Costs            550.60
Interest during construction  37.40                        107.00
Total Financing Required            588.00         590.34
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
i              !                 11,l !, ;' -;; ,  ;     !              |  , ,Procurement Methdo., .   I-
Expenditure Category                                                      -'ICB-'  ,  NtherTta Cost
1. Works                     7.20         45.90         0.00         2.00        55.10
(3.60)       (20.30)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (23.90)
2. Goods                     17.00         2.20         7.20         2.50        28.90
(17.00)       (1.60)       (6.00)       (0.00)       (24.60)
3 . Services                 0.00          0.00         9.30         0.00         9.30
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.50)       (0.00)      (3.50)
4. Land acquisition and      0.00          0.00         0.00         3.30         3.30
relocation
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Industrial Pollution      0.00          0.00        454.00        0.00        454.00
Control Subloans             (0.00)       (0.00)      (198.00)      (0.00)      (198.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     24.20         48.10       470.50        7.80        550.60
(20.60)      (21.90)      (207.50)      (0.00)      (250.00)
22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
*  I;      Is i '      'J-|.       | .Procurement Method'1 i           i
Expenditure Category        ICB   I.      NCB               2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
-i.7ICE- 1.__ ,NC                     Other
1. Works                       21.40         65.40         0.00          0.00         86.80
(9.71)        (23.40)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (33.11)
2. Goods                       4.00          11.80         0.00          2.00          17.80
(4.00)        (11.80)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (15.80)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          0.34         0.50          0.84
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.34)        (0.00)       (0.34)
4. Land acquisition and        0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
relocation
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Industrial Pollution        0.00           0.00        450.00         19.00        469.00
Control Subloans               (0.00)        (0.00)      (192.20)        (0.00)      (192.20)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         15.90         0.00          15.90
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.05)        (0.00)       (0.05)
Total                       25.40         77.20         466.24        21.50        590.34
(13.71)       (35.20)       (192.59)       (0.00)      (241.50)
As of June 2001 indications from the Borrower. Land acquisition and relocation costs are included under
Miscellaneous.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2!Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing
IBRD       Beneficiaries   Municipalities      Total
Large scale sub-projects     192.2          270              6.8            469
Small scale & TWIE
Urban Waste Water &          48.9          55.5              0.2           104.60
Urban Waste Management
TA & Training                0.34          0.50                             0.84
Miscellaneous                               10.0             5.9            15.90
TOTAL                       241.44         336.0             12.9          590.3
*Annex 8 details the financing plan for each industrial sub-project.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rates of Return for 36 Sampled Subprojects
Subproiect                               ERR at Appraisal        ERR after Completion
B-001 Zhangjiagang Velvet                42.4%                   27.0%
B-015 Suzhou Hoisting                    21.4%                    18.0%
B-016 Suzhou Electro Ceramics            18.0%                   43.6%
A-006 Zhenjiang No. 2 Chemical           22.1%                    16.3%
A-029 Danyang Chemical                   17.5%                    22.2%
A-023 Gold River Paper                   23.4%                    19.3%
A-034 Jiangsu Fertilizer                 26.2%                    16. 1%
A-037 Dantu Cement Plant                 27.4%                    16.8%
A-038 Zhenjiang General Steel            21.8%                    18.9%
A-042 Danyang Steel                      26.3%                    21.8%
A-013 Changzhou Chemical                 15.9%                    13.0%
A-016 Changzhou General Brewery          25.8%                    17.9%
A-024 Changzhou Building Materials       31.7%                    18.5%
A-004 Xingyuan Chemical Group            20.6%                    17.4%
A-005 Wuxi Chemical Industries           22.2%                    20.5%
A-008 Wuxi Heat Exchange                 23.2%                    21.3%
A-01I Wuxi Rubber                        23.6%                    22.0%
A-014 Wuxi Steel                         28.4%                    13.5%
A-017 Wuxi No. 4 Rubber                   17.5%                   14.3%
A-018 Jiangyin Paper Mill                23.2%                    22.5%
A-021 JiangsuXingwu Textiles             23.6%                    22.0%
A-022  JiangsuDingqiu Industries         24.5%                    22.5%
A-030 Wuxi Dyestuff General              24.5%                    21.3%
A-031 Yixing Feida Chemical              25.2%                    22.5%
A-032 Wuxi No. 2 Rubber                  22.7%                    18.8%
A-033 Wuxi Petrochemical                 19.4%                    16.8%
- 24 -



A-001 Suzhou No.5 Pharmaceutical          22.1%                    15.0%
A-002 Zhangjiagang Chemical               20.0%                    30.0%
A-007 Jiangsu Chemical                    20.2%                    18.7%
A-10   Suzhou Synthetic Chemical          15.3%                    13.7%
A-012 Zhangjiagang Aux. Chemical          20.5%                    15.2%
A-019 Jiehua Chemical                     23.4%                    17.6%
A-027 Suzhou Aux. Agent Plant             24.6%                    15.0%
A-035 Zhangjiagang Chemical Fiber         25.3%                    22.0%
A-044 Fenqiao Cement Factory              21.8%                    14.0%
A-045 Suzhou Iron and Steel               26.5%                    18.7%
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists,. I FMS, etc.)..  Implementation Developrment
Month/Year     Count           Specialty.                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Preparation -                6    1 Financial Analyst, 2
November 1990                     Operations Officers, I Industrial
Spec., I Municipal Engineer, and
I Environmental Specialist
Preparation -                I    I Industrial Specialist
February 1991
Preparation -                5    Financial Analyst, 2 Operations
July/August 1991                  Officers, Industrial Specialist, I
Environmental Specialist,
Pre-appraisal -              9    1 Financial Specialist, I
February 1992                     Operations Officers, I Industrial
Specialist, I Paper Engineer, I
Sanitary Engineer, 2
Environmental Specialists, I
Environmental Engineer, I
Disbursement Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal -                 11    I Financial Analyst, I
February 1992                    Industrial Specialist, I Paper
Engineer, 2 Operations
Officers, 2 Environmental
Specialists, I Chemical
Enginer, I Environmental
Engineer, I Sanitary
Engineer, I Sanitary
Engineer
Negotiations -               8    1 Financial Analyst, I Counsel, I
February 1993                     Disbursement Officer, I
Industrial Specialist, I Chemical
Engineer, I Environmental
Engineer, I Operations Officer, I
Young Professional
Supervision
July 1993                     3   1 Economist, I                     HS            HS
Environmental Specialist, I
Engineer
July 1994                     4   1 Industrial Engineer, I Principal  U             S
Engineer, I Environmental
Specialist, I Operations Officer
July 1995                     3   1 Sr. Operations Officer, I        S              S
Industrial Engineer, I Team
Assistant
July 1996                     3   1 Sr. Operations Officer, I Sr.    S              S
Engineer, I Industrial Engineer
- 26 -



December 1997                5   I Municipal Engineer, I            S             S
Chemical Engineer, I Operations
Analyst, I Utility Specialist, I
Operations Officer
December 1998                4   I Municipal Engineer, I            S             S
Chemical Engineer, I Financial
Analyst, I Operations Officer
December 1999                2   1 Environmental Specialist, I      S             S
Operations Officer
November 2000                2   1 Sanitary Engineer, I             S             S
Operations Officer
ICR
November 2001               2     1 Sanitary Engineer, I            U             U
Operations Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$- ('000)
Identification/Preparation             185.10                      635.28
Appraisal/Negotiation                   95.30                      319.08
Supervision                            141.41                      532.99
ICR                                      6.00                       38.80
Total                                  422.81                    1,526.15
Costs incurred up to and including FY99 were marked up 20% to make them comparable with SAP figures
starting in FYOO.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
a Sector Policies                       O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
LI Physical                             *H    OSUOM      ON   ONA
OI Financial                            O H  OSU*M       O N  O NA
L Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                         O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
l Gender                          O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
I Other (Please specify)          O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
Land Acquisition & Resettlement
El Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M    0 N  * NA
O Public sector management              0 H   O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS *U O HU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS        * U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       O HS * S      O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS       *U    O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I. Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. I1 370-CHA, dated February 16, 1993
2. Loan Agreement, dated March 23, 1994
3. Project Agreement, dated March 23, 1994
4. Regional and Departmental Files
5. Borrower's ICR Report, dated April 2001
6. Additional Information Requested and Submitted by Implementation Agencies
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Listing of Industrial Pollution Subprojects
NO.   1            SUBPROJECT                                       TOTAL INVESTMENT                                  DOMESTIC SOURCES OF FUNDS
I                UNIT                   Subtotal  WB loan   Investment Ratio  Domestic Fund  Investment Ratio  Domestic Bank Loan  Self-rained  Other
REVOLVING FUND SUBPROJECT
WUXI
B-006   WUXI XIKAI PACKAGING                      3320      3320            100.00            0              0.00
B-007   WUXI CTY NO. 3                           25864     10516             40.66         1534S            59.34                7548      4500     3300
B-o0I   JIANGYIN XIANGYANG IN DUSTRI ES          27570     10620             38.52         16950            61.48                9440      7510
B-013   WUXI JIANGZHOU BIOPH                      9960      9960            100.00             0             0.00
B-014   WUXI QIANZHOU PRINT                      36521     15521             42.50        21000             57.50               15000      6000
B-017   WUXI CTY CHEM. FAC.                      23475      8320             35.44         15155             64.56               4640       5515     5000
B-019   WUXI GEN.BREWERY                         12500      4150             33.20          8350            66.80                          8350
B-022   WUXI KAIBAO MAGNETIC MAT.                 8207      2532             30.85          5675            69.15                2127      3548
0-024   XISHAN DONGBEITANG DYEING                 2490      2490            1(t0.00            0              0.00
B-025   WUXI NO.3 STEEL MILL                     23818      4150             17.42         19668             82.58              15234      4434
B-027   XISHAN RADIO TRANSFORMER                  4150      4150            100.00             0             000
subtotal  177875     75729             42.57       102146             57.43               53989     39857      8300
SUZHOU
B-001   ZHANGJIAGANG VELVET                       6492      3311             51.00         3181             49.00                          3181
B-002   ZHANGJIAGANG HAT FAC.                     7585      4232             55.79         3353             44.21                          3353
B.003   SUZHOU XINGFENG SILK                      5815      3652             62.80         2163             37.20                          2163
B-005   WUJIANG TEXTILE                           6225      6225            100.00            0              0.00
B-008   WUJING PINGWA DYEING                      8300      8300            100.00             0             0.00
B-010   SUZHOU TAICANG KNITTNG                   14449      6624             45.84         7825             54.16                          7825
B-012   SUZHOU MILK CO.                          16306      8300             50.90         8006             49.10                5500      2506
B-015   SUZHOUPINGJIANGHOISTING                   7386      4149             56.17         3237             43.83                2320       917
B-016   SUZHOU ELECTROCERAMICS                    8335      4154             49.84         4181              50.16                         4181
B-018   CHONGQING STEEL PLANT                    17100      3610             21.11         13490            78.89                9850      3640
B-020   SUZHOU GUCHENG GEN.                      11304      4150             36.71          7154            63.29                6890       264
B-021   SUZHOU GEN. BREWERY                      15379      7586             49.33          7793            50.67                 498      7295
0-023   WUXIAN DYEING & WEAVING                  13000      4772             36.71         8228             63.29                4800      2200      1228
subtotal  137676     69065             50.16        68611             49.84               29858     37525      1228
- 31 -



INDUSTRIAL SUBPROJECT                 _                                                   _                _                              ______
ZHENJ1ANG
A-006   ZHENJIANGMUN.NO.2                        42464      15015            35.36         27449             64.64                5000      10449    12000
A-020   DANYANGCHEMICALFAC                        82245    61545             74.83         20700             25.17               18700                2000
A-023   ZHENANG GOLDRIVER                         97870    37289             38.10         60581             61.90                         60581
A-034   JIANGSU DANYANG PHOS                     31 109     14654            47.11         16455             52.89                4380               12075
A-037   DANTU COUNTY CEMENT                      110077    52830             47.99         57247             52.01               32000      17958     7289
A-038   ZHENJANG GEN. SMELTING                   48407      16310            33.69         32097             66.31                9400      22697
A-042   DANYANG STEEL PLANT                      92472     33872             36.63         58600             63.37                          58600
subtotal  504644    231515             45.88       273129              54.12               69480    170285    33364
CHANGZHOU
A-013   CHANGZHOU CHEMICAL                       197401    108939            55.19         88462             44.81               43000     45462
A-016   CHANGZHOU GEN. BREWERY                  245719     87449              35.59       158270             64.41                2000      25080   131190
A-024   CHANGZHOU BUILDING MAT.                   82325     16583             20.14        65742             79.86               33470      32272
A-025   CHANGZHOU UYANG CHEM.                     50400    22900              45.4         27500             54.56               27500
subtotal  575845    235871             40.96        339974             59.04              105970    102814    131190
__                                                       -_                                            =                               =
A-03    WUXLI REFINERY PLANT                      34533    20733              60.04        13800             39.96               13800
A-004   X3NGYUAN CHEMICAL                         46180     18185             39.38        27995             60.62                5063      22932
A-005 |WUXI CHEMICAL NUSTRIEs                    135485    72708              53.66        62777             46,34                6000      56777
A-08    WUXIHEATEXCHANGER                         93779    33117              35.31        60662             64.691              19082      41580
A-009   JIANGSU YANSHAN INDUSTRIES               435945    33192               7.61       402753             92.39              225075     177678
A-11I   WUXI PUBBER FACTORY                       50115    25365              50.61        24750             49.39               24500        250
A-014   WUXI STEEL PLANT                         246429    73845              29.97       172584             70.03               92000      80584
A-017   WIXI NO.4 RUBHER PLANT                    31681     18160             57.32        13521             42.68               11500       2021
A-018   JIANGYIN PAPER MILL                      206669    32785              15.86       173884             84.14              103266      50618    20000
A-021   JIANGSUXINGWUGROUP                        56910     27830             48.90        29080             51.10               15000      14080
A-022   JIANGSU DINGQIU INDUSTRIES                47532    29050              61.12        18482             38.88               13000       5482
A-029   WUXI RUBBER GROUP                         42074     29050             69.05        13024             30.95                5000       3024     5000
A-030   WUXI DYESTUFF FAC                         46509     21041             45.24        25468             54.76               18444       5760     1264
AM031  YfXING FEIDA CHEMICALS                     22214      8300             37.36        13914             62.64                6000       7914
A-032   WUXI NO. 2 RUBBERPLANT                   27751      10051            36.22         17700             63.78               10000       7700
A4033   WUXI GEN. PETROCHEMICALS                 144200     8300               5.76       135900             94.24               73680     37220     25000
A-036   WUX LIDA PRECISION WELDING                53204    32204              60.53        21000             3947                15000       6000
A440    WUXi STEEL WORKS                          =         =                                                                               =         =
subtotal  1721210   493916             28.70       1227294             71.30             656410     539620    51264
- 32 -



SUZHOU
A-00I   SUZHOU NO.5 PHARMACEUTICALS                33772    23232              68.79         10540              31.21                7000      3540
A-002   ZHANGJIANG CHEMICAL                        35779     13S69             38.76         21910             61.24                          21910
A-007   IIANGSU CHEMICAL PESTICIDES               108197     53386             49.34         54811              50.66               11000     4381 I
A-010   SUZHOU SYNTHETIC CHEM.                     53929     21547             39.95         32382             60.05                10000      10253    12129
A-012   ZHANGJIAGANG AUX. CHEM.                   66340      39442             59.45         26898             40.55                17618      9280
A-019   JIEHUA CHEM. COMPANY                      75432      31673             41.99         43759             58.01                39000      4759
A-027   AUXILIARY AGENT PLAN                       44995     33117             73.60         11878              26.40                          11878
A-035   ZHANGJIAGANG ZHONGGANG                     30451     16434             53.97         14017              46.03               12017       2000
A-043   CARBON BLACK FAC.                          91696     45048             50.00         45S48              50.00                7848     38000
A.044   FENQIAO CEMENT FAC.                        94182     23240             24.68         70942              75.32               32000       8942    30000
A.045   SUZHOU IRON & STEEL                       352441    106535             30.23        245886              6977               228000      17886
subtotal  987214    408343              41.36        578871             58.64               172259     42129         0
= CHAN-SHU                                                             =                                                           = =
A-015   CHANGSHU GENERAL CHEMICAL                 143118    56731              39.64         86387              60.36               23320      7117     55950
subololt  143118     56731              39.64         86387             6036J                23320      7117     55950
Annex8.xls
- 33 -



- 34 -






AGING-
Report No.:         23571
Type:     ICR



