Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3582 CHA
(Southern Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 23, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3582 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Jiangsu Province with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
Jiangsu Province the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Jiangsu Province;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CIB" means China Investment Bank, a specialized bank established and 
operating under its Charter dated December 4, 1981.
(b)
"Company" means any of the Sewerage Companies or the Wuxi Hazardous 
Material Company.
(c)
"TVIE Sub-Project" means a specific investment project designed to abate 
pollution caused by a township and village industrial enterprise, and "TVIE Sub-loan" 
means a sub-loan made or proposed to such an enterprise by CIB as financial agent out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a TVIE Sub-project.
(d)
"Financial Agency Agreements" means the five agreements referred to in 
paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement entered into between CIB and 
Jiangsu Province and the Project Municipalities, respectively, on January 20 and 21, 
1993, under which CIB will act as financial agent for the Project Municipalities for 
Sub-loans under Part A of the Project.
(e)
"km" means kilometers.
 
(f)
"Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project" means a specific 
investment project designed to abate pollution created by an industrial enterprise in 
an urban area, and "Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan" means a 
sub-loan, in an amount exceeding $500,000, made or proposed to be made to such an 
enterprise by CIB as financial agent out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a 
Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project.
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Jiangsu 
Province of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(h)
"Project Municipalities" means the municipalities in Jiangsu Province, of 
Changzhou, Suzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang.
(i)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
(j)
"Sewerage Companies" means the Changzhou Urban Sewerage Company, the Wuxi 
Drainage Company and the Zhenjiang Water Supply and Drainage General Company, 
collectively, and "Sewerage Company" means any of the Sewerage Companies.
(k)
"Small-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project" means a specific 
investment project designed to abate pollution created by an industrial enterprise in 
an urban area, and "Small-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan" means a 
sub-loan, in an amount not exceeding $500,000, made or proposed to be made to such an 
enterprise by CIB as financial agent out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a 
Small-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project.
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
Page  3
(m)
"Sub-borrower" means the enterprise to which a Sub-loan has been made or 
is proposed to be made.
(n)
"Sub-loan" means any of: Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control 
Sub-loans, Small-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loans and TVIE Sub-loans.
(o)
"Sub-project" means any of: Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control 
Sub-projects, Small-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-projects and TVIE 
Sub-projects.
(p)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into by 
Changzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang each with their respective Sewerage Company and by Wuxi 
with the Wuxi Hazardous
Material Company in accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
(q)
"Wuxi Hazardous Material Company" means the Wuxi Hazardous Material 
Storage and Trading Company.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred fifty million 
dollars ($250,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Jiangsu Province to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Jiangsu Province therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Jiangsu Province to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent  or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to Jiangsu Province on 
the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding eighteen years, including 
five years of 
grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid by Jiangsu Province at a rate equal to 
eighty-five percent 
(85%) of the rate calculated in accordance 
with Section 2.05 (a) of this 
Agreement;
 
(iii)
Jiangsu Province to bear the foreign exchange risk between the 
Renminbi and 
the Bank's currency pool; and
 
(iv)
commitment charges to be paid by Jiangsu Province at the rate 
stated in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
 
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Jiangsu Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Jiangsu Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Jiangsu Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
Any of the parties to the Financial Agency Agreements or the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been entered into on behalf of 
Changzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang with the Sewerage Companies and on behalf of Wuxi and 
the Wuxi Hazardous Material Company.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Jiangsu Province, and is legally binding upon Jiangsu Province in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with 
their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Sub-loans               179,000,000       100% of amounts
                                                disbursed by CIB
(2)   Goods for:                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
      (a) Part B of the        15,000,000       100% of local ex-
          Project                               penditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
      (b) Parts C and D         6,000,000       75% of local expen-
          of the Project                        ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3)   Works for Part B         22,000,000       50%
      of the Project
Page  8
(4)   Consultants' services                     100%
      and training for:
      (a) Part B of the         1,300,000
          Project
      (b) Parts C and D         1,700,000
          of the Project
(5)   Unallocated               25,000,000
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    250,000,000
                               ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to 
the Project Agreement;
(b)
expenditures under Categories 2 (a), 3 and 4 (a) until waste discharge 
permits shall have been issued for all existing municipal sewage treatment plants in 
Changzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang and temporary permits shall have been issued for the 
facilities under Part B of the Project and resettlement plans meeting the requirements 
of paragraph A.4 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement have been provided to the 
Bank; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and Jiangsu Province in 
reducing the widening gap between environmental protection and economic development in 
Southern Jiangsu, by supporting high priority, cost effective pollution control 
investments, improving the management of urban wastewater in the Project 
Municipalities, and the management of toxic and hazardous material and waste in 
Jiangsu Province and Wuxi Municipality.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Industrial Pollution Control
 
Financing of Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-projects designed to 
contribute to pollution abatement in the Project Municipalities and financing of 
Small-scale Industrial Pollution
Control Sub-projects and TVIE Sub-projects in Greater Wuxi and Suzhou.
Part B:
Urban Wastewater Management
 
Page  9
1.
Supporting the implementation of the Changzhou municipal long-term wastewater 
master plan, through: construction and equipping of about 27 km of sewers and 5 sewage 
pumping stations and primary and secondary treatment and related facilities at the 
Chengbei, Lihua and Qingtoan Sewage Treatment Plants and training facilities and 
provision of equipment, vehicles and materials for sewer system cleaning and 
maintenance, effluent and system monitoring, consultants' services and
staff training.
2.
Supporting the implementation of the Wuxi municipal long-term wastewater master 
plan, through: construction and equipping of about 334 km of sewers and 14 sewage 
pumping stations and primary and secondary treatment and related facilities at the 
Lucun Sewage Treatment Plant and provision of equipment, vehicles and materials for 
sewer system cleaning and maintenance, effluent and system monitor, consultants' 
services and staff training.
3.
Supporting the implementation of the Zhenjiang municipal long-term wastewater 
master plan, through: construction and equipping of about 30 km of sewers, a submarine 
pipeline, outfall facilities and pilot waste stabilization pond for Zherenzhou Island, 
7 sewage pumping stations and the pumping station and treatment facilities at 
Jiangbin, and provision of equipment, vehicles and materials for sewer system cleaning 
and maintenance, effluent system monitoring and training, and
consultants' services and staff training.
4.
Undertaking studies of the structure and level of Sewerage Company tariffs in 
Changzhou, Wuxi and Zhenjiang.
Part C:
Management of Hazardous Materials and Waste
 
1.
Establishment and operation of the Jiangsu Solid and Hazardous Waste Management 
and Registration Center and the Wuxi Solid and Hazardous Waste Management and 
Registration Center and hazardous material emergency response center, including 
construction and equipping of facilities and provision of specialized monitoring 
vehicles, consultants' services and training.
2.
Establishment of a facility to handle the storage and trans-shipment of 
hazardous materials in Wuxi, including construction and equipping of facilities and 
provision of consultants' services and training.
3.
Undertaking a study of a hazardous material storage and trans-shipment tariff in 
Wuxi.
Part D:
Institutional Development
 
Undertaking a program of staff training for the environmental protection bureaus 
of Jiangsu Province and the Project Municipalities, including relevant staff from CIB, 
including the provision of monitoring and training equipment.
*           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
      November 15, 1998
4,675,000
      May 15, 1999                       
4,850,000
      November 15, 1999                    
5,030,000
      May 15, 2000                         
5,215,000
      November 15, 2000                    
5,410,000
      May 15, 2001                         
5,610,000
      November 15, 2001                    
5,815,000
      May 15, 2002                         
6,035,000
      November 15, 2002                    
6,260,000
Page  10
      May 15, 2003                         
6,490,000
      November 15, 2003                    
6,730,000
      May 15, 2004                         
6,980,000
      November 15, 2004                    
7,240,000
      May 15, 2005                         
7,510,000
      November 15, 2005                    
7,790,000
      May 15, 2006                         
8,080,000
      November 15, 2006                    
8,380,000
      May 15, 2007                         
8,690,000
      November 15, 2007                    
9,010,000
      May 15, 2008                         
9,345,000
      November 15, 2008                    
9,695,000
      May 15, 2009                        
      10,055,000
      November 15, 2009                   
      10,430,000
      May 15, 2010                        
      10,815,000
      November 15, 2010                   
      11,215,000
      May 15, 2011                        
      11,635,000
      November 15, 2011                   
      12,065,000
      May 15, 2012                        
      12,515,000
      November 15, 2012                   
      12,980,000
      May 15, 2013                        
      13,450,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years before
maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Sub-projects and the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Sub-loans referred to in paragraph C.1 (c) of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement may 
be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals 
from the Loan Account in respect thereof.  Such expenditures, however, shall qualify 
as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such 
withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in to the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  12
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank 
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
