Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3582 CHA
(Southern Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JIANGSU PROVINCE
Dated March 23, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3582 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JIANGSU PROVINCE (Jiangsu Province).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Jiangsu Province agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Jiangsu Province, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Jiangsu Province declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Jiangsu Province shall otherwise agree:
(i)
Jiangsu Province shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project 
in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
Jiangsu Province shall carry out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 
(c)
Jiangsu Province shall re-lend the respective portions of the proceeds of 
the Loan to the Project Municipalities on the following principal terms and 
conditions:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding eighteen years, including 
five years of 
grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid by the Project Municipalities at a rate not 
less than 
eighty-five percent (85%) of the rate calculated in 
accordance with Section 
2.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement;
 
(iii)
the Project Municipalities to bear the foreign exchange risk 
between the 
Renminbi and the Bank's currency pool; and
 
(iv)
commitment charges to be paid by the Project Municipalities at the 
rate stated 
in Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement.
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Jiangsu Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Jiangsu Province shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Jiangsu Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Jiangsu Province of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Jiangsu Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of Jiangsu Province and the Project Municipalities responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Jiangsu Province shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Jiangsu 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Jiangsu 
Province thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
Page  4
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Jiangsu Province:
Finance Bureau of Jiangsu Province
68 West Beijing Road
Nanjing 210024
Jiangsu Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
342250 FBOJP CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Jiangsu 
Province may be taken or executed by Vice Governor or such other person or persons as 
Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Jiangsu Province shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
JIANGSU PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).  For the fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid 
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid 
Page  5
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors 
acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the 
other to the local currency component of the bud price.  Such an increase shall not be 
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $5,000,000 shall 
be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $7,000,000 or more in the case of works and 
$200,000 or more in the case of goods.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, China may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works for Part B of the Project, other than the submarine pipeline and related 
works under Part B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $7,000,000 or 
less per contract, and items or groups of items of goods under Parts B, C and D of the 
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less and more than $100,000, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items of goods under Parts B, C and D of the Project 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $6,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two suppliers, where 
applicable from at least three different countries, eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Items or groups of items for goods under Sub-loans estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract but more than $200,000 per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different countries 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Items or groups of items for goods under Sub-loans estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract under Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
Page  6
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure. 
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Jiangsu Province in carrying out the Project, Jiangsu 
Province shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and  procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
Waste Management
 
1.
Jiangsu Province shall cause each of the Project Municipalities of Changzhou, 
Wuxi and Zhenjiang enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with its Sewerage Company, 
and shall cause Wuxi to enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with the Wuxi Hazardous 
Material Company on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include: 
(a)
each of the Sewerage Companies shall carry out its respective portions of 
Part B of the Project, and the Wuxi Hazardous Material Company shall carry out its 
respective portion of Part   of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
conformity with appropriate industrial and environmental practices;
(b)
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the respective portion of the 
Project shall be relent to each Company on the following principal terms and 
conditions:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding fifteen years, including 
five years of 
grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid by the Company at the variable rate calculated 
in 
accordance with Section 2.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement;
 
(iii)
the Company to bear the foreign exchange risk between the Renminbi 
and the 
Bank's currency pool; and
 
(iv)
commitment charges to be paid by the Company at the rate stated in 
Section 
2.04 of the Loan Agreement;
 
(c)
the financial covenants set forth in paragraphs A.2 and A.3 below;
 
(d)
each of the Sewerage Companies shall undertake a study of its tariffs 
under Part B.4 of the Project, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the 
Bank, and furnish such study to the Bank for review, by June 30, 1995; and
Page  7
(e)
the Wuxi Hazardous Material Company shall undertake the study of its 
tariffs under Part C.3 of the Project, in accordance with terms of reference agreed 
with the Bank, and furnish the study to the Bank for review by June 30, 1995.
2.
(a)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Company shall from time to 
time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels
of its tariffs as determined by the respective Project Municipality) as shall be 
required to produce total operating revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of: 
(i) its total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which its financial 
obligations exceed the provision for depreciation and any other non-cash operating 
expenses.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Company shall from time to 
time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of level of its
tariffs, refraining from incurring debt, or reducing debt) in order to ensure that the 
internal cash generation of such Company for each fiscal year shall be at least 1.2 
times.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Company shall incur any debt 
if, after the incurrence of such debt, the ratio of total liabilities to equity shall 
be greater than 70 to 30.
(d)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Company shall take all 
such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of levels of its tariffs as 
determined by the respective Project Municipality and improvements in operational 
efficiency) as shall be required to produce net cash surplus equivalent to not less 
than: (i) fifteen percent (15%) of its average annual investment program in 1997; and 
(ii) twenty percent (20%) thereafter.
(e)
For the purposes of this paragraph 2:
 
(i)
The term "total operating revenues" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance, administration and 
depreciation.
(iv)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt; 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, 
if any); all taxes or 
payments in lieu of taxes; allocations 
to special funds and other cash 
distributions of surplus funds 
(including mandatory transfers to the Project 
Municipality); and any 
other cash outflows (other than capital expenditures) 
related to 
operations.
(v)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration 
but excluding 
depreciation.
 
(vi)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of a Company maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(vii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
Page  8
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(viii) The term "internal cash generation" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating expenses 
and interest and other charges on debt.
 
(ix)
The term "total liabilities" means all debt incurred by the 
Company, 
regardless of maturity.
 
(x)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of a Company not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
 
(xi)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating income minus the 
sum of: (A) 
cash operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations.
 
(xii)
The term "average annual investment program" means the average of: 
(A) the 
previous year's actual capital expenditures; (B) the 
current year's planned 
capital expenditure; and (C) the next year's 
projected capital expenditure.
(xiii) Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of Renminbi, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
(a)
Each Company shall:
 
(i)
by May 31 in each year, commencing May 31, 1994, prepare and 
furnish to the 
Bank for review a rolling long-term financial plan 
(including projected income 
statements, sources and uses of funds 
and balance sheets) for a period of no 
less than 8 years; and
 
(ii)
thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the financial position 
of the 
Company.
 
(b)
Each Company shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
4.
Jiangsu Province shall cause the Project Municipalities of Changzhou, Wuxi and 
Page  9
Zhenjiang to:
(a)
carry out the resettlement of people under each of their respective 
portions of Part B of the Project in a manner and according to a schedule which is 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
report on the progress of carrying out the resettlement plan using 
monitoring indicators acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Jiangsu Province shall cause the Project Municipalities of Changzhou, Wuxi and 
Zhenjiang, respectively, to:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comment draft operating rules for the 
municipal sewerage system; and 
(b)
by October 1, 1994, promulgate and thereafter, implement such rules 
taking into account the Bank's comments.
Part B:
Hazardous and Toxic Waste and Materials Management
 
1.
Jiangsu Province shall:
 
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, and cause Wuxi to prepare and furnish to 
the Bank, draft regulations and safety and operating rules for hazardous waste and 
material management for
Jiangsu Province and Wuxi Municipality, respectively, including those for material 
storage and transport in Wuxi; and
(b)
by October 1, 1994, promulgate and thereafter, implement such regulations 
and rules taking into account the Bank's comments.
Part C:
Overall Project Management
 
1.
Jiangsu Province shall:
 
(a)
implement the environmental strategy and action plan agreed with the Bank 
for environmental management in Jiangsu Province south of the Yangtze River; and
(b)
cause each of the Project Municipalities to implement the environmental 
strategy and action plan agreed with the Bank for environmental management in the 
respective Project Municipality.
2.
Jiangsu Province shall maintain the Provincial Project Leading Group and the 
Provincial Project Management Office to direct and supervise the implementation of the 
Project and shall cause the Project Municipalities to maintain the Municipal Project 
Leading Groups and Municipal Project Management Offices, all with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and, for the Offices, staffed by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
3.
Jiangsu Province shall ensure that all training under Parts B, C and D of the 
Project shall be carried out in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures and Terms and
Conditions for Sub-loans
Part A:
Terms and conditions of Sub-Loans
 
Jiangsu Province shall ensure that the Project Municipalities extend Sub-loans 
to enterprises through CIB as financial agent on the following principal terms and 
conditions:
1.
Sub-loans shall bear interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, at a rate not less than the variable rate calculated in accordance 
with Section 2.05 (a) of
the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of one and one-half percent (1.5%).
Page  10
2.
Repayment periods for Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loans shall 
not exceed eighteen years, including up to five years of grace.  Repayment periods for 
Small-scale Industrial
Pollution Control Sub-loans and TVIE Sub-loans shall not exceed seven years, including 
up to three years of grace.
3.
Commitment charges shall be paid on the undisbursed balance of Sub-loans at the 
rate of three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) per annum.
4.
Each Sub-borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk on its Sub-loan between 
the Renminbi and the Bank's currency pool.
5.
Criteria for economic appraisal of proposed Sub-projects shall include, inter 
alia, determination that all feasible pollution reduction options have been 
considered, that the sub-projects are the most cost-effective and that the closure of 
the Sub-borrower is not the most economic solution and that based on economic 
analysis, Sub-borrower has a positive net present value.  Criteria for financial 
appraisal shall include a determination that the Sub-borrower is financially viable, 
as measured by a debt service ratio coverage of no less than 1.4 times after the 
Sub-project is completed and has reached full production capacity.  Criteria for 
technical appraisal shall include an assessment of the impact of the proposed 
Sub-project on pollution prevention and reduction and compliance with national and 
local environmental regulations.
6.
(a)
CIB shall not disburse funds on any Sub-loan unless the Sub-borrower has 
completed an environmental impact assessment report for the Sub-project which has been 
approved by the responsible environmental protection bureau;
(b)
CIB shall not disburse funds on any Sub-loan for a wastewater subproject 
unless the borrower has: (i) obtained a wastewater discharge permit for existing 
operations; and (ii) obtained a temporary wastewater discharge permit for new 
operations of the relevant Sub-project.
Part B:
Implementation Arrangements
 
1.
Jiangsu Province shall cause CIB, and shall cause the Project Municipalities to 
cause CIB, acting through its Jiangsu branch, to carry out the following under the 
Financial Agency Agreements:
(a)
CIB shall act as financial agent for Part A of the Project and shall be 
responsible for appraisal, supervision, disbursement and collection of repayments 
under Sub-loans and the credit risk on Sub-loans shall be borne by the respective 
Project Municipality; and
(b)
as part of its responsibility for appraisal, CIB shall implement the 
technical appraisal agreements with the Jiangsu Provincial Engineering Consulting 
Center, for Large-scale Industrial Pollution Control Sub-projects and with the Nanjing 
Environmental Research Institute, for Small-scale Industrial Pollution Control 
Sub-projects and TVIE Sub-projects, entered into on January 14, 1993 and shall obtain 
the approval of the Bank prior to making any additional arrangements for assistance in 
technical appraisal.
2.
Jiangsu Province shall cause the Project Municipalities of Wuxi and Suzhou each 
to establish and operate a revolving fund for small-scale industrial pollution 
abatement projects and a revolving fund for township and village industrial enterprise 
projects in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C:
Procedures for Processing Sub-Loans
 
1.
Jiangsu Province shall ensure that the following procedures for processing 
Sub-loans are followed by the Project  Municipalities and CIB:
(a)
Prior to detailed appraisal of proposed Sub-projects, the environmental 
protection bureau of the relevant Project Municipality shall furnish to the Bank for 
its approval a statement
of the eligibility of the Sub-project, including a quantification of the environmental 
Page  11
impact and a description of priority under the municipal environmental strategy and 
action plan.
(b)
After detailed appraisal of proposed Sub-projects, CIB shall furnish to 
the Bank for its approval a full appraisal report of the first four Large-scale 
Industrial Pollution Control Sub-projects, the first four TVIE Sub-projects and all 
subsequent Sub-projects for which the aggregate amount of Sub-loans made to the 
Sub-borrower would exceed $4,000,000, the foregoing amount being subject to change 
from time to time as determined by the Bank.  CIB shall make the Sub-loan for such 
Sub-projects to the Sub-borrower only after the Bank shall have given its approval.
(c)
For any other Sub-project, CIB shall furnish to the Bank a request for 
authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, along with a summary of the 
Sub-project and the Sub-loan.
(d)
For all Sub-projects, CIB shall furnish to the Bank all such information 
as it shall reasonably request concerning Sub-projects, Sub-borrowers and Sub-loans.
(e)
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Bank shall have 
given its approval or
authorization as required under paragraphs (b) and (c) above and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank 
received the appraisal report or Sub-project summary under said paragraphs (b) and 
(c).
2.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby CIB shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Bank and CIB, including the right to:
(a)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project; and (iii) technical assistance and training shall be 
carried out in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and 
consultants shall be employed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance 
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or CIB shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and 
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations 
under its contract with CIB.
Page  12
