Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16672
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2068-GUI)
June 18, 1997
Agriculture III
Country Department 16
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GF)
US$1.00 = 590 GF (at negotiations, August 1989)
US$1.00 = 991GF (at closing, June 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE/CFD               Caisse centrale de cooperation &conomique (France)/Caissefran,aise
de developpement
CIDA                   Canadian International Development Agency
CNSP                   National Center for Fisheries Surveillance (Centre national de
surveillance des peches)
DNFC/DNFF              National Department of Forestry and Hunting/ - and Wildlife
(Direction nationale desforets et de la chasse/-de lafaune)
EEZ                    Exclusive Economic Zone
FAC                    Assistance and Cooperation Funds (Fonds d'aide et de coopiration -
France)
FRG                    Federal Republic of Germany
KfW                    Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
MARA/MAEF              Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Ressources/-of Waters and
Forestry (Ministere de I 'agriculture et des ressources animales/-des
eaux etforets)
OPPFR                  Land Tenure Pilot Operation (Operation pilote de plan foncier rural)
ORSTOM                 French Scientific Research Institute for Cooperation Development
(Institutfrancais de recherche scientifique pour le developpement en
cooperation)
SEP                    State Office of Secretary for Fisheries (Secritariat d'etat a lapeche)
UNEP                   United Nations Environmental Protection Agency
USAID                  United States Agency for International Development
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director    Mamadou Dia, AFC 16
Technical Manager     Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTA3
Task Team Leader     Catherine Cassagne, AFTA3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2068-GUI)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface .................................
Evaluation Summary...........
PART 1:   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................I
A.         Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives .................................................. 1l
B.         Achievement of Objectives ...................................................2
C.        Summary of Project Implementation and Major Factors Affecting it ......................4
D.        Project Sustainability ...................................................5
E.        Bank Performance ...................................................7
F.        Borrower Performance ...................................................9
G.        Assessment of Outcome ...................................................9
H.        Future Operation ..................................................                                  10
1.        Key Lessons Learned ...................................................11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .13
Table 1:         Summary of Assessments ...............................................                        13
Table 2:         Related IDA  Credits ...............................................                          14
Table 3:         Project Timetable ...............................................                             15
Table 4:         Disbursements: Forecast and Actual ...............................................            15
Table SA:    Key Indicators for Implementation of Forestry and Land Tenure .................. 16
Table SB:    Key Indicators for Implementation of Fisheries ............................................. 18
Table 6:         Key Indicators for Project Performance ...............................................         19
Table 7:         Studies Included in Project ...............................................                  20
Table 8A:    Allocation and Disbursement of IDA  Credit ...............................................  21
Table 8B:    Project Financing ...............................................                                21
Table 9:         Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................                  22
Table 10:        Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                    24
Table 11:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                 25
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Missions ..................                                                        26
APPENDICES:
Appendix A: Mission's aide-memoire .27
Appendix B: Borrower's comments on the draft ICR .33
Maps - IBRD 21653/21599/21598
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2068-GUI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forestry and
Fisheries Management Project in Guinea, for which IDA Credit 2068-GUI in the amount
of SDR 6.3 million (US$8.0 million equivalent) was approved on October 24, 19891 and
made effective on February 2, 1990.
The credit financed about 25% of the project's total cost (US$23.0 million).
It closed on June 30, 1996, after two one-year extensions (the original closing date was
June 30, 1994. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place on November
25, 1996. Cofinancing for this project was provided by the German KfW, with a DM 15
million (US$5.5 million) grant; the Canadian CIDA, with a $CAN3.3 million 2 (US$2.4
million) grant ; and the French CFD with a FF 12.5 million (US$2 million) grant.
Government's contribution was initially estimated at US$6.0 million equivalent.
Government's actual contribution was, however, less than projected (US$2.6 million
equivalent, with donors providing the shortfall).
The ICR was prepared by Mrs. Catherine Cassagne, Task Team Leader,
Agriculture, West Africa (AFTA3), with the support of Mme/Messrs. Rohan, Taupiac and
Prevoo (AFTA3) and Messrs. Poirier and Kaczynski (consultants). It was reviewed by Mr.
Jean-Paul Chausse, Technical Manager, and Mr. Mamadou Dia, Country Director for
Guinea. The borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision
mission of May 28 to July 1, 1996. It is based on material in the project files and findings
of the Bank's completion mission of September 15 to 28, 1996. The Borrower contributed
to the elaboration of the ICR by preparing its own detailed evaluation of selected
components' execution and outputs (available in project files). Project's co-financiers did
not provide comments.
I     At the time, the Vice-President of the Africa Region was Edward Jaycox, the Director was Ismail Serageldin
(AFIDR), the Division Chief was Kevin Cleaver (AFIAG), and the Task Manager was Robert Crown (AFIAG).
as stated in the grant agreement between Canada and Guinea (the SAR mentions a contribution equivalent to
US$ 1.5 million)






- jj-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2068-GUI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
When the project was approved, in 1989, IDA's assistance in the Guinean rural
sector was emphasizing raising small holder incomes while creating durable institutions in
both the public and private sectors. At the policy level, Government's strategy of trade
liberalization and improved incentives to agricultural production was supported by a
Structural Adjustment Credit and the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara Africa. At the project
level, IDA was participating in the financing of seven projects, aimed at developing
specific sub-sectors or services (Livestock, Agricultural Services, Seeds) or increasing
specific productions (Pineapple, Rice). IDA's assistance strategy also included 15 on-
going investment operations in the education, industrial, and infrastructure sectors.
Project Objectives and Design
(a)   In the area of forestrv. the aim was to: (i) slow the process of degradation of humid
and dry forests and ensure their regeneration; (ii) increase the country's self-sufficiency in
forest products; (iii) create employment in the forest industry; and (iv) increase State
revenues derived from the commercial exploitation of forests. To help achieve these
objectives, an inventory of traditional land rights in use was to be carried out, on a pilot basis.
Although that was not officially recorded, the forestry-related objectives were changed, early
in the implementation phase, by common agreement of the co-financiers and the Guinean
government. The institutional strengthening and the reduction of tropical forest degradation
were retained, but the idea of commercial industrial exploitation was abandoned in favor of
the conservation of biodiversity in selected primary forest stands; the implementation of pilot
activities by villagers; and the promotion of an essentially artisanal timber exploitation.
Regarding fisheries the project aimed to set up a system of integrated management of
fisheries resources to ensure (i) their conservation; (ii) the establishment of transparent
procedures for granting industrial fishing licenses; and (iii) greater revenues for the State.
(b)   Very strong disbursement conditionalities were associated to the fisheries component
of the project, related to reforms in the legislative and policy framework that were judged
pre-requisite for the achievement of the component's objective.
(c)   With regard to forests the initial project objectives were formulated on the basis of
very limited knowledge of the forestry resources; socio-economic conditions in the areas
chosen for intervention; and absorptive capacity, organizational constraints and



- iii -
administrative culture of the implementing agencies. The revised objectives were better
focused but should, however, have been more clearly formulated and linked to performance
indicators.
Implementation Experience and Results
(a)   Concerning the forestry component, the objectives - as reoriented - were only
partially achieved, except for the protection of biodiversity in the two targeted classified
forests, Diecke and Ziama (about 178,000 ha) with sizable shared benefits for the local and
global communities. The preparation of management plans prompted a dialogue, at all
levels, on the complex issues involved and raised consciousness of the urgent need to
develop suitable, participatory approaches. In the area of institutional support, the project
improved the working conditions of the local forestry staff, but had very little impact on
the capacity of the forestry services for planning and management. The land tenure pilot
operation (OPPFR) contributed to halt encroachment of peasants in the two target forests,
but data collected for the plans have not been fully processed and are not utilized.
However, it also catalyzed a debate on the need to reconcile traditional land use rights with
the country's modern legal framework. Regarding fisheries, the CNSP (Centre national de
surveillance des peches), an administrative unit with financial, budgetary and managerial
autonomy was established and began to work in a way that - despite some problems - can
be considered a model for the sub-region. It operates a transparent system for the sale of
licenses and the management of other revenues derived from industrial fishing. On the
other hand, for lack of applicability of the results of fisheries research, the protection of that
resource, as well as the sustainability of yields, cannot be considered as objectives attained.
The project's overall sustainability is judged uncertain.
(b)   The Credit Agreement was signed on November 9, 1989, and the agreements with
the co-financiers (KfW, CFD, and CIDA) were also signed around this date. IDA credit
was to cover 25% of project's total cost (US$23.0 million) with other external donors
providing 50% and Govemment 25% (Table 8B). The IDA credit became effective on
February 2, 1990, but the first disbursement for the Fisheries component was not approved
until mid-1993, because of extensive delays on the part of the Borrower in fulfilling agreed
conditions, thus leaving too little time for an implementation phase long enough to ensure the
project's sustainability. Two one-year extensions of the credit were granted to permit
substantial implementationof the project's planned activities, in particular under the fisheries
component, and IDA credit closed on June 30, 1996. Overall, the project spent much more
than estimated on --mostly expatriate-- technical assistance, a category that was already
overly heavy at appraisal (US$4.8 million equivalent for IDA alone, or 60% of the total credit
against US$2.8 million equivalent, or 35%; the cost of technical assistance financed by other
donors is not available) and on operating costs. Co-financiers had also to substitute for
counterpart funding to a large extent. Government's actual contribution to project costs is
estimated at about 12%. The IDA credit - and most of the other co-financiers' contributions -
were fully disbursed.



- iv -
(c)    The key factors that affected the achievement of the project's major objectives,
besides a general lack of ownership by Government, are the following [(A) for forestry and
land tenure; (B) for fisheries]:
Factors generally subject to government control: (A): Guinean management staff was
not sufficiently involved in project management, and apparently indifferent to the skills
transfer from which they were supposed to benefit; the consultants for the component were
not always technically competent nor skilled in transferring their expertise to their Guinean
counterparts. They also were inadequately guided, and their work programs insufficiently
monitored. (B): (a) The Government was responsible for the delay in the approval of new
laws and regulations for the granting of fishing licenses; (b) the lack of cooperation between
the Guinean Navy and the CNSP for maritime surveillance was a permanent obstacle;
however, (c) the consultants mobilized for the fisheries component managed to optimize the
implementation of this component by establishing, with their Guinean counterparts, a
rigorous system of specific objectives and indicators, despite considerable obstacles.
Factors generallv subject to the co-financiers' control [especially for (A)]: project
supervision neglected management issues.
Other factors: (A): the influx of refugees from Liberia and Sierra Leone had an impact
on the normal course of the forestry and land tenure components; (B) Guinea's very rich EEZ
is subject to heavy exploitation by foreign fishing fleets with powerful vested interests and
considerable influence. This, coupled with Guinea's lack of experience in negotiating fishing
agreements and having them respected, was a considerable obstacle to project efforts.
(d)   Bank performance was deficient. during all phases of the project, as far as forestrv
and land tenure were concerned. In the initial phases, the Bank failed to involve Guinean
staff and to question Guinea's Forestry Action Plan, which led to the formulation of
unrealistic objectives. When those were changed early in the implementation phase, there
was no re-appraisal when it would have been called for. Later, no formal mid-term review
was carried out. The second phase of supervision was more rigorous than the first. However,
it made the (poor) choice of relying on the planned follow-up project, that has yet to
materialize, to resolve the problems of the current project. Finally, the supervision effort
failed to address the project's management problems, which directly affected the achievement
of objectives. In the area of fisheries, the Bank's overall performance is iudged satisfactory
in all project phases.
In the forestrv and land tenure components, Borrower performance is judged
deficient overall, in all project phases. Borrower involvement was marginal during project
design, preparation and appraisal. Thereafter, it failed to seek 'ownership" of the project,
leaving its fate largely in the hands of technical assistants. Finally, the Borrower failed to
complete the land tenure activities and to allocate adequate resources for the project's
future operation. Regarding fisheries, the Borrower was very active, during the preparation
phase, in the initial design of the project and associated legal and administrative reforms.



However, the Borrower's performance in implementing the component was very
negatively affected by a long procrastination regarding policy reforms.
Summary of Outcomes, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
(a)   The project's impact on Guinea's development can be judged satisfactory in the
area of fisheries, because of the considerable obstacles that were overcome and the
accomplishments made, in particular on the legal and regulatory side. On the other hand,
and although the project had nevertheless a positive impact on the populations living near
the managed gazetted forests and on the sustainable management of these same forests
(assuming that they continue to be managed), the project must be judged unsatisfactory in
the areas of forestry and land tenure, because of the limited scope and uncertain durability
of its results, which were achieved at the cost of a substantial investment. Globally, the
project's outcome is judged unsatisfactory.
(b)   The economic rate of return (ERR) of the forestry component is estimated to be
negative (-8% against +40% projected at appraisal), largely because of the very heavy cost
of the ineffectual technical assistance under the component. The ERR of the fisheries
component has not been re-assessed because of the paucity of data on the benefit side.
However, the very large incremental receipts extracted from foreign commercial fishing
operations through the reforms introduced under the project are a measure of the projects'
incremental benefits for Guinea. If sustained, these incremental benefits of the fisheries
component would be more than sufficient to ensure a satisfactory overall ERR for the
project as a whole.
(c)   The Borrower has prepared an initial proposal for project operation. In addition, in
the case of fisheries, it has already launched initiatives to strengthen project's initial
results, and continued Canadian assistance is planned, as well as assistance by the African
Development Bank. A FAC/ORSTOM fisheries research project has taken over the aid
previously supplied by CFD within the project. On the forestry side, Government has
begun to implement the management plans for the Ziaina and Diecke forests, with the
adjacent populations and the assistance of the KfW. The Borrower had been expecting, in
the area of forestry, land tenure and general natural resource management, a follow-on IDA
financed assistance to consolidate the achievements of the preceding project.  The
Government probably relied too heavily on this prospect. The Bank, for its part, decided to
put off such a project until further notice. Failure to mobilize support to follow up would
jeopardize the limited achievement of the project. The planning proposals for the project's
future operation should be revisited with a view to incorporating the recommendations
included in the present report. It will be crucial to mobilize coordinated international
donor aid to implement the plan.
(d)   Key lessons include:
In the areas of identification. preparation, and appraisal: (i) the project's scope and
implementing mechanisms must be tailored to the Borrower's design and planning



- vi -
capabilities; (ii) when drastic policy changes are needed, in an uncertain political
environment, a pre-investment phase could be envisaged, or the policy reforms could be
leveraged within the framework of the macro economic dialogue; (iii) project documents
should include the need to prepare a plan for the project's future operation one year before
the end of the implementation phase.
In the areas of start-up, implementation and supervision: (i) a complete re-appraisal
and new economic analysis should be performed for projects whose objectives are
substantially modified; (ii) priority must be given to skills transfer and to the
internalization of project results by host country staff; and (iii) care should be taken that
proper project management is available before project start-up and assured at all times.
In the concerned technical areas: (i) forest management cannot be addressed in
isolation of national policy and institutional framework; (ii) forest management must also
address the development of surrounding communities; (iii) agreements in principle on land
rights management must be agreed upon before launching pilot activities in this area; (iv)
the issue of dramatically diminishing fisheries resources (and thus the role of applied
research) must be at the core of any operation in this sector; (v) international fishing
agreements must be carefully designed and respected by riparian countries and countries
whose fleets operate in concerned waters.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2068-GUI)
PART I: ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
1.    Project objectives. The project was initially aimed at creating operational institutions
and systems for the protection and sustainable management of forestry and fisheries resources.
In the area of forestrv. the aim was to: (a) slow the process of degradation of humid and dry
forests and ensure their regeneration; (b) increase the country's self-sufficiency in forest
products; (c) create employment in the forest industry; and (d) increase State revenues derived
from the commercial exploitation of forests. To help achieve these objectives, and in particular
to protect the humid forests from unplanned clearing, an inventory of the land rights in use was
to be carried out on a pilot basis. Regarding fisheries, the project aimed to set up a system of
integrated management of fisheries resources that would provide for (a) the protection of
fisheries resources; (b) the establishment of transparent procedures for granting industrial fishing
licenses; and (c) greater revenues for the State.
2.    Very early in the implementation phase, the objectives of the forestry component were
changed by common but informal agreement between the co-financiers and the Guinean
government. Only the first two initial objectives, concerning the strengthening of institutions
and a reduction of tropical forest degradation, can be considered to have been retained. Project's
focus was reoriented towards the conservation of biodiversity in primary forest stands in two
valuable classified forests - Ziama and Di6cke; the implementation of pilot activities by villagers
(lice cultivation, demarcation, reforestation) to improve their stake in conservation; and forest
exploitation activities of an essentially artisanal nature. Industrial exploitation was abandoned
on more than two thirds of the area of classified forests. Because of the resulting increased
workload in the humid forests, the activities that had been planned for the dry forest were scaled
back to simple reconnaissance operations. The land tenure pilot operation which was initially
meant mostly to halt encroachment of villagers in the forests, was given the broader objective of
securing villagers' rights over their lands. In the area of fisheries. objectives were not modified,
but were instead refined by the concerned parties, especially at the beginning of the
implementation period.
3.    Evaluation of project objectives. With regard to forests, the initial project objectives
were formulated on the basis of very limited knowledge of (i) the ecology of the forest stands to
be protected and of sylvicultural options in the dense humid forest of Guinea; (ii) the socio-
economic situation of the populations living in and around these forests; (iii) the actual local
potential for processing forest products; and (iv) the absorptive capacity, organizational
constraints and administrative culture of the implementing agencies. It is therefore not



- 2 -
surprising that the objectives would need to be changed as early as the first supervision missions,
toward the conservation of the very rich biodiversity and the participation of rural populations in
sustainable resource management. This was a very positive development. However, the new
objectives -- since they were fundamentally different -- should have been clearly re-formulated
and supported by revised performance indicators, in the absence of which it is now difficult to
determine to what extent they were achieved. Indeed, the project being assessed here is a
different one from the one that was originally appraised.
4.    In the area of fisheries the project's initial objective was clear and very relevant: to solve
an obvious and serious problem of lost earnings for Guinea. However, this objective was
probably also ambitious given the Government's political inertia. The main objective had been -
-rather early in the implementation phase -- translated into a number of precise targets to be
achieved, several of which had to be abandoned or scaled back in the course of implementation.
Since precise indicators were defined from the start of implementation, objectives associated
with fisheries are fairly measurable.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    Concerning the forestry component (PROGERFOR4J, the objectives - as reoriented -
were partially achieved. Undeniable progress was made in slowing of degradation of the
humid forest and the protection of biodiversity in the two targeted classified forests, Diecke
and Ziama. The production and official approval -- carried out in participatory fashion with
the affected populations -- of sustainable management plans for about 178,000 ha of forests is
unarguably an accomplishment. Sylvicultural and planting efforts created jobs for local
populations, with the erection of about 700 km of live bamboo and acacia fencing and the
regeneration of 740 ha with 20 different wood species. The preparation of the management
plans for these forests provided the opportunity to analyze the complexity of issues to be
addressed to reconcile conservation with the needs and expectations of the local populations.
These plans were discussed at public events and prompted a dialogue at all levels, from the
hamlet to ministerial level, and highlighted the need to design specific solutions. However,
the management plans include only physical and technical considerations and not financial or
economic ones. In addition, notwithstanding the analysis presented in Table 9, the benefits
for Guinea derived from the management of those forests are difficult to measure and thus
debatable. In the area of institutional support, the project did bring about substantial
improvements in the working conditions of the staff of the central administration and its
decentralized branches (in the Guinee Forestiere region) and, with the retraining of 95 agents
of the forestry sector in Tindo, it also made a sizable contribution to the store of conceptual
and operational skills available for works implementation. However, the capacity for
planning and management -- within the central and decentralized forest administration
services as well as at the level of projects in the sub-sector -- remains inadequate. The land
tenure Dilot operation ("OPPFR") contributed to halt encroachment of peasants in the two
target gazetted forests. This was complementary to the participatory character of the new
I     The forestry component of the project was called, in the investment program of Guinea's Forest Department,
PROGERFOR (forestry resources management project).



forest management methodologies. It tested the demarcation and registration of traditional
user rights around the two forest reserves and established techniques and procedures to
possibly be used nationwide. It trained operators for the establishment of the "Rural Land
Tenure Plans," 2 and, more importantly, catalyzed a debate on the reconciliation between
customary land tenure rights and the newly-introduced private land ownership principle in the
country. However, data collected for the plans have not been fully processed and the peasants
still await the tangible impact of the project on their land tenure security. Finally, despite its
pilot character, the operation was insufficiently monitored, especially in terms of costs, hence
not allowing to fully capture its lessons.
6.     Regarding fisheries, the question of whether or not objectives were accomplished --
and to what extent -- is easier to answer. Most of the required conditions were established for
the functioning of an integrated system of management and the protection of marine fisheries.
At the center of this system -- which is not fully functioning yet as such - the main
operational tool was established: the CNSP (Centre national de surveillance des peches), an
administrative unit with financial, budgetary and managerial autonomy, was set up and began
to function in a way that can be considered a model for the sub-region, carrying out the
following tasks: (i) management of fisheries resources (fisheries plans; monitoring/evaluation
of fishing efforts); (ii) surveillance and inspection of fishing operations (site visits; monitoring
and verification of unloaded and transferred fish catches; surveillance missions;
communications; network of observers); and (iii) administration and finance (development
and implementation of a financial and administrative management system).
7.     The CNSP has set up and now operates a transparent system for the sale of licenses
and the management of other revenues derived from industrial fishing. It collects taxes and
fees and turns them over to the State whose revenues have increased considerably3, though
less than expected. In 1995: (i) amounts due to the public treasury amounted to the equivalent
of US$1,268,870, but actual receipts only totaled US$699,536 (i.e., 55% of the total due); (ii)
actual receipts resulting from the surveillance tax were 20% short of the amount of tax due;
and (iii) collected fines totaled US$52,000, while the total amount of such fines, as estimated
by the Interministerial Commission, was US$300,000 dollars (a 17% recovery rate); (iv)
verification was carried out on 32 vessels in the port of Conakry (24% of the total). In 1996,
the data are even much more favorable, according to the Ministry of Fisheries. In terms of
specific outputs: most of the equipment was provided and planned training was carried out; the
planned Kamsar surveillance base was not built, but the training facilities in Conakry were
completed. On the other hand, for lack of applicability of the results of fisheries research-- thus
not allowing the establishment of adequate norms capable of guiding management -- the
protection of fish resource, as well as the sustainability of yields, cannot be considered as
objectives attained. This is all the more alarming since studies tend to show that fisheries
resources are still diminishing.
2      "Planfoncier rurar': a map showing the inventory of rights for a given village (and covering all of its lands).
3      The revenues collected by the State before the project were negligible.



- 4 -
C. Summary of Project Implementation and Main Factors Affecting it
8.    The Credit Agreement was signed on November 9, 1989. The project became effective
on February 2. 1990, but activities under the forestry component did not begin until
September 1990, and those under the land tenure  component only in February 1992.
Implementation of these two components ended on June 30, 1995, after a one-year extension of
the credit. For the fisheries component however, the first disbursements were not approved until
mid-1993, because of extensive delays on the part of the Borrower in fulfilling disbursement
conditions: revision of the fisheries code and of its application, and especially the establishment
of the integrated and transparent system for managing licenses and other subsectoral revenues,
as well as the agreement with the country's Navy concerning surveillance. Only the CFD-
financed component, which dealt with research on fisheries resources existing in Guinea's
Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), was able to start up during 1992, and concluded in December
1995. Actual implementation of the surveillance component could not begin until the second
half of 1994, when the technical assistance -- financed by Canada and subject to the same
conditions as above -- were able to start operating, but the investments financed by IDA under
this component did not start up until mid-1995. A second one-year extension of the credit was
therefore granted and the implementation phase ended on June 30, 1996. Some remaining
Canadian assistance was due to finish during the first quarter of 1997.
9.    The main factors that affected -- mainly negatively -- implementation of the (A)
"forestry" and "land tenure" components, and the (B) "fisheries' component, besides
Government's general lack of commitment to the project, are the following:
10.   Factors eeneralv subiect to government control: (A): (a) the two-year delay in assigning
Guinean counterpart staff delayed overall implementation and reduced the effectiveness of the
transfer of skills and knowledge from the technical assistants to the Guinean staff; (b) Guinean
staff was not sufficiently involved in project management, due to: (i) delays in the confirmation
of staff; (ii) their insufficient preparation for administration and budget planning; and (iii) the
apparent indifference of this staff to the skills transfer from which they were supposed to benefit;
(c) the large number (32 staff-years) of consultants hired for the forestry component were not
always technically competent and/or skilled in transferring that expertise to counterparts (they
also were inadequately guided and monitored, and carried out their duties without the control of
the administration for which they were working); and (c) there was generally no real supervision
of the project by Government services apart from those that were directly implementing it.
11.  (B): (a) The Government allowed a considerable delay to occur in the approval and
application of new laws, regulations and policy measures and in the introduction of radical
changes in fisheries resource management and in the granting of fishing licenses, thus leaving
too little time for the implementation phase to finally ensure the project's sustainability, (b) the
cooperation between the Guinean Navy and the CNSP for maritime surveillance was
particularly inadequate; (c) the old age and inadequate maintenance of the surveillance
motorboats, even those belonging to the Navy, affected surveillance exercises; (d) changes in
the source of financial support for surveillance operations hampered CNSP's functioning; (e)
the coordination of intersectoral administrative procedures, and administrative bottlenecks in



- 5 -
general, caused countless delays; (f) the coordination and management of the various donor
contributions posed a problem (IDA's contribution, although small, but probably more
difficult to access and manage, was not entirely disbursed); (g) the availability of counterpart
funds -- as well as of funds to cover indirectly incurred recurrent expenditures (gasoline for, or
maintenance of, surveillance crafts, etc.) -- was inadequate; (h) on the positive side however,
improved cooperation with neighboring countries, especially with Guinea-Bissau, made it
possible (very recently) to reduce the cost of surveillance. The consultants mobilized for the
fisheries component an additional 16 man-years, on the other hand, --and in particular for the
CNSP -- managed to optimize the implementation of this component by establishing with their
Guinean counterparts a rigorous system of specific objectives and indicators, despite
considerable obstacles (including their own delay in being able to get down to work).
12.   Factors generallv subject to the co-financiers' control (applicable to the whole of the
project): (a) donors could have consulted each other more, especially during crucial phases of
project implementation; (b) administrative procedures could have been simpler and better
harmonized among co-financiers, especially as regards disbursements; (c) project supervision
neglected management issues (especially for the forestry and land tenure components), and this
had consequences for the very achievement of project objectives; (d) IDA's closure of the credit
in June 1996 -- albeit two years after the initially fixed closing date -- at a time when certain
important outputs were either on-going or had not yet been produced (construction of the
Kamsar base, in particular) created a situation of lost opportunity which forced the Borrower to
finish implementation without IDA's support; and finally (e) the juxtaposition, within a single
project, of two totally separate subprojects in subsectors as different from each other as fisheries
and forestry -- implemented by separate institutions -- created special problems of
implementation and monitoring.
13.   Other factors: (A): the influx of refugees from Liberia and Sierra Leone had an impact --
although difficult to quantify -- on the normal course of the forestry and land tenure
components; (B) (a): in the area of fisheries, it should be noted that Guinea's EEZ -- which is
one of the world's richest in fisheries resources -- is subject to heavy exploitation by numerous
foreign fishing fleets (especially European and Asian) with powerful interests and means. Some
fleets, when they are not engaging in outright poaching, often refuse to give information on their
catches. This foreign interference within the sub-sector, coupled with Guinea's lack of
experience in negotiating fishing agreements and means to having them respected, was a
considerable obstacle to achieving project objectives; (b) finally, the uprising within the armed
forces in February 1996 effectively stopped the Navy's collaborationin surveillance.
D. Project Sustainability
14.   The project sustainability is uncertain. Indeed, despite the now recognized need by the
national community for long term support to natural resource management programs and the
fact that the Guinean government and IDA began to prepare a follow-on national program at
4      inter alia: objectives were not formulated; there were no indicators, no detailed regular work programs; no
accounting system; no monitoring and evaluation, for the forestry and land tenure components.



- 6 -
least 30 months before this project's closing, very little is implemented on the ground to
follow-up on project's achievements. The preparation of the follow-up national program is
still incomplete and resources have not been allocated in the national budget for the recurrent
costs induced by the project.
15.   As regards forests. the formal approval (via ministerial decrees) and implementation of
management plans for the Ziama and Diecke forests, and the continued support to the
development of the adjacent populations under a KfW-financed Rural Resource Management
Project (RRMP), are important steps already taken to ensure the sustainability of the project's
most important investments and impact. However, IDA was expected to support the follow-up
operation, which was to provide a stronger underpinning to Government's strategy for natural
resource management and cover more activities in the area of natural resource management, but
this has not materialized.
16.   The main actions that could bring about greater project sustainability (in the forestry and
land tenure components) are the following: (i) operational planning, in concert with the main
actors in the sector, of a national forestry and, more generally, natural resource management
strategy and program in the context of the LPDA 5 (currently being revised by Government) -- to
incorporate all the lessons learned from the project (as well as from other natural resource
management projects), especially as regards the transfer of direct resource management
responsibility to the non-governmental sector (rural communities, enterprises and associations);
(ii) the assignment by the Government of Guinean staff trained by the project to operational
posts (most of the 95 agents trained under the project returned to their former posts within the
prefectural sections of the DNFF, which are without funds and specific activity programs); (iii)
provision of budgetary resources needed for the operation and maintenance of vehicles,
equipment and infrastructures supplied by the project; (iv) support (both material and financial)
to personnel of the prefectural sections of the Forest Department; and (v) mobilization of the
human and budgetary resources needed to evaluate the achievements of the OPPFR and to
follow them up.
17.   In the area of fisheries, sustainability of project's achievement is more likely. Its
strong impact on Government's revenues is a highly visible -- and desirable -- outcome, and it
should ensure that there will be no back-sliding. Uncertainties about project sustainability
concern the following issues:
(a) skills transfer and the training of specialists were probably inadequate to allow the
trained personnel, currently in post, to continue to operate the CNSP without support from
technical assistance. This is mostly due to the excessive short duration of the implementation
phase, which did not allow local staff a true "breaking in" period6;
(b) there is still not enough tangible proof that the Government is truly committed to
pursuing the reforms initiated by the project. However, the Government has recently declared
Letter of Policy for Agricultural Development.
6     The Canadians, however, just decided to finance further technical assistance back-to-back.



that it considers the fisheries sector a priority for the national economy and that it has an
Emergency Plan for it. The Minister of Fisheries and Livestock is currently examining
management and administration practices in the sector, and increased rigor and control are to
be introduced (particularly in the form of the Commission speciale d'investigationfinanciere)
to examine irregularities in the sale of fishing licenses and in the management of revenues
derived from these licenses and other payments to the Treasury and the CNSP. Greater
autonomy is planned for the CNSP which could acquire one or several surveillance boats of
its own, and reduce its dependence upon the Navy (a factor that contributes to the doubts
about sustainability). Efforts are to continue in the area of sub-regional cooperation to
improve performance and reduce costs. Jointly with Guinea-Bissau, the Government of
Guinea plans to re-negotiate fishing agreements, especially those with the European
Community;
(c) the CNSP's financial self-sufficiency remains a problem, which could quickly
become severe now that donor aid has ceased. For 1996, CNSP's forecast receipts are only
US$40,000 greater than planned expenditures (including funds for depreciation and needed
investments, especially for purposes of completing the project implementation phase).
Nevertheless, costs will inevitably rise and the center's financing and performance will be
endangered because, even supposing that the collection rate for fees and other revenues
increases as a result of the measures described under part H below, it is possible that the
number of licenses sold -- and therefore receipts -- decline as fisheries resources themselves
decline. The center's main sources of financing are surveillance taxes, observers' fees, fines
and compensations from the European Union. All of these revenue sources depend essentially
upon the situation of fisheries resources and on the willingness of foreign operators to pay
increasing license fees to gain access to shrinking resources.
(d) the availability, quality (and therefore the applicability) of scientific information on
fisheries resources is currently inadequate. This will thus be a determining factor in ensuring
optimal resource management and, by extension, project sustainability. External factors, such
as better international fishing agreements (concerning sustainable fish harvesting levels) and
universal respect of these agreements -- especially in the sub-region -- will also be crucial.
E. Bank Performance
18.   As far as forestrv and land tenure were concerned, Bank performance was unsatisfactory.
during the identification, preparation and appraisal phases, and remained so throughout the
implementation phase. The Bank's most important shortcomings in project identification,
preparation and appraisal were the following: (i) marginal involvement of Guinean staff; and (ii)
failure to question the premises and main thrust of the Guinea Forestry Action Plan (PAFG).
Thus, the Bank was unable to realistically assess the Borrower's commitment or its capacity to
implement the project -- both factors were overestimated -- nor could it determine the best use
and true potential of the chosen forest stands. This resulted in the formulation of initial
objectives that were unrealistic. Early in the project implementation,joint supervision carried
out by the Bank, co-financiers and the Government allowed major readjustments of project
objectives and technical activities, and this made it possible to compensate for errors made at



- 8 -
appraisal. However, there was no adequate reformulation of the project. A full re-appraisal
should have been undertaken, given the substantial technical, social, and economic implications
of the readjustments that were made. In addition, the supervision effort failed to resolve the
project's major management problems, for instance: lengthy bureaucratic procedures for
disbursement, no work programs and no performance or monitoring indicators, no real
accounting system. Surprisingly and regrettably, there was no mid-term review. Supervision
suffered from the lack of continuity in Bank's task management. The skill-mix of supervision
missions could also have given more weight to management issues. The second phase of
supervision was undoubtedly more rigorous than the first, but it made the (poor) choice of
relying on the planned follow-on project (the Rural Resources Management Project - PGRR) to
resolve the problems of the current project. In addition, relations between the Bank and the co-
financier (KfW) could have been closer, in particular with respect to their technical approaches.
19.  In the area of fisheries, the Bank's overall performance is judged satisfactory in most
project phases. At the time of identification, the project was innovative and relevant, for
Guinea as well as for the Bank's assistance strategy. An in-depth analysis of the management
of fisheries resources and an evaluation of the fisheries sector, both financed by the Bank,
resulted in the definition of (i) a sectoral development strategy and (ii) the concept of
surveillance of Guinea's EEZ. The detailed proposal for a surveillance program was then
drawn up with the help of the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). It is true
that, at pre-appraisal, the Bank misread the Borrower's real commitment to reforming the
system of fisheries management and surveillance, as well as its capacity to implement the
project (and project activities were launched after long delay, leaving little time to accomplish
everything). The project was banking on the hope that, once the first policy measures were
implemented, the various parties would see an improvemeilt in their working and living
conditions and from then on be motivated, and this is indeed what happened. However, the
Bank had quite accurately forecasted the risks associated with Government's possible
reluctance to introduce the necessary reforms, as evidenced by the fact that disbursements
were linked to stringent disbursement conditionalities. Longer than expected project start-up,
however, resulted in sizable lost earning opportunities. Finally, the Bank might have better
foreseen the difficult relationship with the Navy, or better assessed the level of
illegal/overfishing and associated vested interests against change. The project demanded the
implementation of fundamental, but politically delicate, changes, that may well have required,
in addition, a higher profile in the Bank's overall dialogue with the Government.
20.   During the supervision of this component -- which was brief -- the Bank was actively
involved in monitoring the implementation of management plans and fisheries resource
protection plans, as well as progress in all areas (legislative, administrative and operational),
in giving advice on the status of the CNSP and on its functioning and, at project's end, in
assessing to the extent possible the advisability of extending the IDA credit and helping the
Borrower to use the remaining funds and time as productively as possible. In general, the
Bank reacted appropriately and in a timely manner at various times. Finally, relations
between the Bank and the co-financiers, CIDA and CFD, were good overall.



-9 -
F. Borrower Performance
21.   In the forestry and land tenure components, Borrower performance is judged deficient
overall. Borrower involvement was marginal during project design, preparation and appraisal,
which allowed unrealistic objectives and outputs to be defined. Thereafter, the Borrower
failed to acquire 'ownership" of the project, except at certain levels of technical
implementation, leaving its fate as well as its management largely in the hands of technical
assistants. Entities other than the ones charged with direct implementation (higher echelons
or separate agencies assigned to monitor projects) were very rarely involved in supervision,
leaving the Forest Department (DNFC, now the DNFF) and the Land Tenure Conservation
Service with a conflict of interests as they had to both implement and supervise the project.
Forestry or natural resource management issues are generally neglected by the Government in
favor of more narrowly agricultural questions, which account for 80-90% of the value of the
portfolio of the Ministry (MARA now the MAEF), including livestock, which has now been
transferred to the ministry responsible for fisheries. Finally, the Borrower failed to finalize
the land tenure activities and to allocate adequate resources for the project's future operation.
22.   Regarding fisheries, the Borrower was very active in the initial design of the project
and associated legal and administrative reforms. Despite differing approaches at the outset
between co-financiers and the Government (on institutional questions and in matters of
Government's financial policies), substantial progress was achieved in overcoming these
barriers and in committing to co-financing the project. However, whereas the staff at
operational and technical levels were very motivated and involved, the Govermnent's
performance in implementing the project was affected by procrastination at decision-making
level and by the overall political situation. This was particularly true at the beginning (with a
resulting start-up delay of several years) in 1995 with tensions in the military sector, and
finally in February 1996 with the attempted military coup. The Guinean side assumed
ownership of this component, but certain entities -- which were powerful and able to make
their influence felt at several levels -- continued to oppose it. This resistance hampered
various project activities throughout the implementation period. As for the operation (i.e., the
post-assistance) phase of the project, it would appear that the Borrower is striving to prepare
for it as best as possible, but that it is continuing to encounter the same internal resistance.
G. Assessment of Outcome
23.   Despite the positive achievements in the (relatively small) fisheries component, the
project's impact on Guinea's development is judged unsatisfactory. In the area of fisheries,
the considerable obstacles were overcome and results achieved in the direction of
sustainability (even if it is fragile).  On the other hand, the project must be judged
unsatisfactory in the areas of forestry and land tenure. Although the project had a positive
impact on the populations living near the two managed classified forests and the sustainable
management of these same forests (assuming that these activities continue), and on the
national dialogue on these issues, its direct results have a limited scope and uncertain
sustainability. These limited and uncertain results were achieved at a substantial cost.



- 10-
24.   As a result, the re-estimated (ERR)of the forestry/land tenure component is negative (-
8%) against an ERR of 40% projected at appraisal (Table 9). This is essentially explained by
the heavy, largely unproductive cost of technical assistance. Given the absence of reliable
data on future production and benefits, the rate of return on the fisheries component has not
been re-calculated. It would probably be extremely high if the rent capture that the system is
now permitting from foreign interests and in favor of the Guinean economy is maintained and
ever increased.
H. Future Operation
25.   The Borrower has prepared an initial proposal for follow-up operation7. In the case of
fisheries, it has launched some relevant initiatives to strengthen project's achievements. On
the forestry side, it has begun to implement the management plans for the Ziama and Diecke
forests and continues to support the adjacent populations, with the assistance of the KfW. It is
important to remember that the Borrower had been expecting, in the area of forestry, land
tenure and general natural resource management, further World Bank assistance in the form of
a second IDA credit (as a complement to the support from KfW, among others), which was
supposed to consolidate the achievements of the preceding project and carry on the institution-
building efforts. The Bank even granted a PPF for this purpose, before deciding in July 1996,
after having nourished this expectation over the course of a laborious 4-year preparation
phase, to put off such a project until further notice. The reasons to do so can be justified by:
Guinea's short- and medium-term inability to ensure counterpart funding; the plethora of
ongoing projects lacking coordination and stock-taking; and the absence of a clear (and truly
Guinean) operational strategy for natural resource management drawn up with the main actors
in the area under consideration. The Government is now committed to give a higher priority
to natural resources management and request coordinated donor assistance -- including IDA --
to do so. In the meantime, the Government should take all the measures and actions
mentioned in the section on project sustainability (Section D) to ensure an appropriate
continuation of the project.
26.   In the area of fisheries, continued Canadian assistance is planned. A project financed
by the African Development Bank is also planned. Finally, a fisheries research project based
at the Boussoura Center and supported by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and
ORSTOM has taken over the assistance previously supplied by CFD within the project. The
following should be done to maintain and build upon to develop the present project's
achievements: (i) slow the ongoing dramatic decline of the volume of commercial fisheries
reserves (300% over the last 10 years for demersal fish) mainly through a much tighter control
over the incursions by industrial ships (both foreign and local) into coastal zones (which are
reserved for artisanal fishing and the species reproduction); (ii) orient fisheries research so it
can supply data for the definition of norms and volumes for catches as well as the setting of
appropriate prices for optimal resource management (the research would have to be
subordinated to precise objectives and programs to that end); (iii) increase the effectiveness of
7     The Borrower was not required (by the Credit Agreement) to prepare a plan for the project's future operation but
was advised by the Bank to do so.



- 11 -
the collection of licensing fees, surveillance taxes and observers premia, and make the
procedures for stopping and fining ships faster, more transparent and more efficient; (iv)
increase the revenue base and licensing rates, particularly by re-negotiating tuna fishing
agreements with the European Union, and by setting up a system of licensing and surveillance
of motorized artisanal fishing; (v) reduce operating costs by maintaining minimal staffing
levels (efforts are needed to increase work productivity as well), reducing the Navy's
surveillance costs and sharing certain surveillance costs with neighboring countries (e.g.,
Sierra Leone) through cooperation agreements similar to the one signed with Guinea-Bissau.
In this connection, the total or partial privatization of the CNSP should be considered (for
certain specific tasks such as the inspection of ports and the surveillance of arrivals of local or
foreign fishing boats, the management of confiscated cargoes, the maintenance of the
surveillance fleet, etc.); (vi) complete the construction of the base at Kamsar; and (vii)
organize new training sessions abroad and continue on-the-job training for CNSP staff.
27.   Government's proposal for the project's follow-up operation -- and specifically the
national natural resources management program -- should be revisited with a view to
incorporating the preceding recommendations, underpinned with appropriate performance
indicators. It will be crucial to mobilize coordinated international donor aid to implement
these initiatives.
1. Key Lessons Learned
28.   In the areas of identification. preparation, and appraisal:
(a)   A project's scope and implementing mechanisms must be tailored to the Borrower's
design and planning capabilities, and the Borrower, as well as the ultimate beneficiaries, must
really want the project and be closely involved in its preparation.
(b)   When drastic policy changes are needed, in an uncertain political environment, other
means should be envisaged to assess Government commitment and support the
conditionalities associated with an investment operation: a pre-investment phase may be
envisaged, and the policy measures leveraged within the framework of the macro economic
dialogue.
(c)   Project documents should specifically include the need to prepare a plan for the
project's future operation one year before the end of the implementation phase, especially
when --as it is the case with this operation-- activities were of a pioneering or pilot kind. The
operation --or development-- phase of the project is what ensures its full impact.
29.   In the areas of start-up. implementation and suervision:
(a)   A complete re-appraisal and new economic analysis should be performed for projects
whose objectives are substantially modified, and the resulting changes should be officially
incorporated in the design and monitoring.



- 12-
(b)   Given the high cost of external technical assistance, absolute priority must be given to
skills transfer and to the internalization of project results by host country staff, especially as
regards management and the capacities of the lead agency (in this case the CNSP and the
DNFF), and IDA should ensure that the technical assistance is used with the utmost
effectiveness.
(c)    Although it may seem common sense, it has to be repeated that proper project
management must be available before project start-up and assured at all times (clear
formulation of objectives, regular detailed work programs, budgets, indicators, monitoring,
accounting system, including analytical accounting, etc.). In a project such as this operation,
that pioneered a number of activities (for instance participatory forest management plans) and
included pilot operations (land tenure), sound management is key - from the design stage and
throughout implementation -- to the very achievement of objectives.
30.   In the concerned technical areas:
(a)   Institution-building activities should be included in an overall sectoral support
program -- with all that this implies -- rather than in a pilot aimed only very narrowly at the
development of one or two forest stands. Forest management and conservation cannot be
addressed in isolation of the national policy and institutional framework.
(b)   Forest management --including conservation-- cannot be addressed in isolation of the
management of surrounding areas, since attractive alternatives have to be given to
communities that depend on forests for a living.
(c)    Agreement on principles for the management of land rights must be agreed upon
before launching pilot operations to demarcate and register such rights, since the rules of the
game for adjudication and conflict resolution will need to be tested during implementation. In
the case of this project, this should have occurred when the objectives were modified, and
then revised when the Land Law was approved (during the course of the project);
(d)   Regarding fisheries, the issue of dramatically diminishing resources must be at the
center of any operation in this sector and in this geographic area. Prices (license fees and
others) must definitely reflect economic costs, and the role of applied research becomes
crucial.
(e)   International agreements regarding fishing must be carefully designed and respected
by all the riparian countries and concerted efforts made to ensure that countries whose fleets
operate in those waters abide by them.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Proiect           Substantial      Partial     Neeligible     N.A.
Obiectives
F8      p      F      P      F       P
Macro policies                      0       0      0      0      0       0       0
Sector policies                     0       0      0      0      0       0       0
Financial objectives                0       0      0      0      0       0       0
Institutional development           0       0      0      0      0       0       0
Physical objectives                 0       0      0      0      0       0       0
Poverty reduction                   0       0      0      0      0       0       El
Gender issues                       0       0      0      0      O0      0       0
Other social objectives             0       0      El    0       0       0       0
Enviromnental objectives            0       0      0      E0     0       0        0
Public sector management            0    0         0      0      0       0       0
Private sector management           0       0      0      0      0       0        0
Private sector development          0       0      0      0      0       0l      0
Other                               0    0    0   0    0    0    0
B. Sustainability                      ikl             Unliel            Uncertain
0                0                  0
C. Bank Performance                   Highly         Satisfactory        Deficient
Satisfactorv
F        P        F         P
Identification                                                 El      l0        0
Preparation                             O            O   0              0        0
Appraisal                               O            0                  El       0
Supervision                             0            0         0        0        0
D. Borrower Performance               Highly         Satisfactory        Deficient
satisfactory
F        P        F        P
Preparation                             0            0        0        0l        0
Implementation                          0            0        0        0l        0
Covenant Compliance                     0            0         0E 0              0
Operation                                                              0         0 O  El  l
E. Assessment of Outcome             Hiehlv       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory       Highlv
satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
0             0                0                 0
F = forestry and land tenure components; P = fisheries component



- 14-
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                     Purpose                  Year of            Status
l ________________________  ________________________________    A p p ro v al
Preceding operations
Gueckedou Agricultural     Integrated rural development project   1986    Closed June 30, 1992
Development Project (Cr.   based on experience gained under the
1635-GUI)                  preceding pilot project.
First Agricultural Services   Strengthening of the Ministry of    1986     Closed June 30, 1992
Project (Cr. 1636-GUI)     Agriculture
Livestock Sector           Rehabilitation of national livestock   1987     Closed December 31,
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.  services and provision of vaccines,            1995
1725-GUI)                  pharmaceutical products and services
to livestock owners
Seed Project (Cr. 1864-    Boosting national seed program to      1988     Closed June 30, 1995
GUI)                       foster agricultural development
Research and Extension     Furnishing logistical and technical    1989     Closed December 31,
Project (Cr. 1955-GUI)     support to renovate and modernize                1995
research and to enlarge and widen the
existing T & V system.
Following operations
National Rural             Improving general policy formulation   1990    Closed on May 31, 1997
Infrastructure Project (Cr.   in the areas of infrastructure,
2106-GUI)                  rehabilitation et maintenance capacity
Agricultural Export        Strengthening of incentive structure   1993     Ongoing, closure
Promotion Project (Cr.     and removal of structural constraints           planned for December
2407-GUI)                 in the agricultural export sector                31, 1999
Agricultural Services      Help consolidate agricultural services  1996    Ongoing, closure
Project (Cr. 2839-GUI)                                                     planned for December
31, 2000



- 15-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle          Date planned           Date actual i latest estimate
Identification (Executive       February 28, 1989            February 28, 1989
Project Summary)      _______
Preparation                  March 1987                   March 1987
Appraisal                  March 6, 1989                March 6, 1989
Negotiations                 August 1989                  August 1989
Board Presentation           October 24, 1989              October 24, 1989
Signing                                              November 9, 1989
Effectiveness              February 7, 1990              February 2, 1990
Mid-Term review                                            Not performed
Last mission                                             September 1996
Implementation completion       December 31, 1993              March 31, 1997
Credit closing               June 30 1994                 June 30, 1996
Table 4: Cumulative Disbursements: Forecast and Actual
(SUS '000)
Fiscal Year                 1990   1991   1992    1993    1994    1995        1996
Estimate at appraisal        956  2,390  4,062   5,655   7,089   7,726       8,000
Actual                       964  2,013   3,360   4,941   7,156   8,101      8,946
Actual as a % of estimate    101     84      83      87      101     105       112
Date of last disbursement    November 25, 1996
9      Forestry and land tenure components were completed by June 30, 1995; the fisheries component on September 30, 1996; CIDA's funded
technical asistance continued until March97.



- 16 -
Table 5.A: Key Indicators for Implementation of Forestry and Land Tenure Component
| Key Implementation Indicators                  Estimated                               Actual
in SAR/President's Report
Technical Assistance
General Advisor                4 man years (my)                              4 my expat.
Financial Controller           3 my                                          4 my expat.
Senior Forester                2 experts for 3 years each (6 my)             total of
Junior Forester                2 experts for 4 years each (8 my)             22.5 my expat.
Land Right Specialist          3 man years                                   4.2 my expat.
Consulting Services
Land Rights                    6 man-months                                  2.5 my national
Management Planner             12 man-months                                 7 mm expat.
IBotanist                                                                     1.6 my national
several short term national                                                 total 6 mm national
Institutional support
Constructions                  DNFF buildings; prefectoral buildings         1 new DNFF building (100%); I
rehabilitation (50%/6); prefectoral
buildings (done at 80%)
Equipment                                                                    vehicles 4x4 = 38; pick-ups = 3;
motorbikes = 58; bicycles = 40
Prefectoral forestry action plans   5                                        1
Training
Forestry agents                80                                            79 agents trained in 5 sessions of
20 weeks each (about 16 agents
per session)
Technical staff (forestry)     9 one month study tours in Africa             not done
Instructors (forestry)         2 instructors for 4 years each                not done
Land tenure teams              6 field survey teams of 4 people each (I land  a total of 62 agents were trained,
tenure agent, I topographer, 1 agricultural agent, I  of which 42 were under contracts
rural social worker)                         (to prepare the land tenure map -
"PFR") and 20 were civil
servants in charge of managing
the process, processing and
restituting data.
Rural communities              No indicator on this aspect in SAR            Have participated in / were
informed about all project
activities in the areas concerned
by the project
Humid Forest Sub-component
Demarcation                    buffer strips, roads or footpaths - 40 km in PY I  total of 850 km of strips opened
and 100 km each in PY2-4                     and planted with bamboo or other
_   _                   ~~~~~~~~exotic species
Forest surveillance            11 posts                                      8 completed and 2 in construction
l                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~when credit closed
Roads                          25 km each in PY2-4                           not done
Stand improvement              100 ha in PY2, 400 ha in PY3, and 700 ha in PY4   80 ha
Enrichment planting            50 ha in PY2, 100 ha in PY3 and 150 ha PY4    total of 735 ha completed;



- 17-
Table 5.A: (continued)
Key Implementation Indicators                  Estimated                               Actual
in SAR/President's Report                                                __l
Reforestation                  10,000 ha in Diecke and Ziama reserves       additional 287 ha being initiated
when credit closed
Rehabilitation of existing    weeding and thinning of 1,000 ha              150 ha
plantations
Support to agro-forestry      2 agricultural extension agents               not done
Natural forest inventories                                                  Ziana: 307 units (of 0.25 ha) at
sampling rate of 0.065%; Didckd:
270 units at sampling rate of 0.13
Management plans                                                            Prepared for Ziama (119,019 ha)
and Di6ckW (59,143 ha)
Dry Forest sub-component
Demarcation and gazetting      survey of two areas with a total surface of 160,000  the dry forests subcomponent
ha (max.) and demarcation with cement boundary   was dropped.
markers and gazetted                         Basic studies were only initiated
Forest surveillance            11 posts                                    (20% done), as well as
Management plan                for the 160,000 ha of surveyed and gazetted forest  cartography (50% done)
Land rights pilot             _                                             ___
Policy                         Support to new Land Law                      Done
Aerial photography            40,000 to 80,000 ha                           was carried out, but no data on
total area covered
Establishment of registries at the   I or more registries                   no registry was established; the
prefectoral level                                                           project worked in 13 districts in
the 2 CRDs (thus in 2 sub-
prefectures) of Seredou and
Bounouma; 27,638 ha were
surveyed, of which only 24,053
correspond to MUH standards;
there is only a partial assembling
map; 3,514 plot data sheets were
processed; nothing was restituted.
Institutional support          Support to Ministry of Agriculture's Land    Creation of the "Service national
Directorate                                  des ressourcesfoncieres" and
support with vehicles and
computer equipment.
Support to prefectoral registries            Not done (as registries not
established).



- 18-
Table 5.B.: Key Indicators for Implementation of the Fisheries Component
Type             Appraisal Estimate             Actual                Comments
Technical Assistance
Lone-term:
Financial Controller    2 years                  3 years
Surveillance Specialist   3 years                3 years
Fisheries Resources     not planned in SAR       3 years
Management Specialist
Research Specialist     3 years                  3 years                 T.A. not included in
Research Specialist     3 years                  3 years                 project costs & not paid
(assistant)                                                              by the project '
Short-term:
Management &                                     several very short term
Information System +
other computer work
Observers network                                4 months
establishment
Boats mechanics                                  4 months
Training of surveillance                         2 weeks
agents
Researchers on various                           7 different expatriates;    See footnote on
topics                                           duration for each       ORSTOM
unknown
Training
Observers               40                       40
Fisheries Inspectors    9                        10
Other, for diverse skills   not identified       209 days for 14 staff   computer software,
inspector's manual,
fisheries management
and surveillance,
inspection, etc.
Surveillance:
Observers network       40                       109 identified
establishment
Constructions           - training center: 200 m2  -training center entirely   -completed at 80%;
to be renovated         built                    precise m2 unknown
- other non specified   - headquarters of CNSP   - completed 100%
civil works             renovated
- construction of the   - procurement process
surveillance base in    up to selection of
Kamsar                  contractor and civil
engineer; credit closed
before construction
started.
10     The research component was financed by CFD and ORSTOM. The latter financed all the T.A. but it was essentially composed of
researchers already present at the center of Boussoura, within the framework of a long term agreement between ORSTOM and Guinea. The research
programs were also roughly those that would have been carried out even without the project.



- 19 -
Table 5.B.: (continued)
Type              Appraisal Estimate             Actual                 Comments
Equipment                vehicles,                All on list initially
communications eq.,      established by project
camera eq., inflatable   management was
boats, outboard motors,   acquired.
simple scientific eq.,
office furniture,
computer eq.
Research                 - 180 days research      - done                   - CFD financed rental of
cruises                  - abundant data          research vessel No
- studies on fish        collected and processed;  Nizery;
migratory patterns,      one final report prepared  - more research is
feeding habits,          with results on the      needed to obtain
reconstitution of stock,   habitat, biomass and   applicable results as tool
species characteristics,   species characteristics;    of fisheries
etc.                     assessment of industrial   management.
- estimate total fisheries   and artisanal fisheries.
biomass                I                        I
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Performance
| Not established in SAR or during project implementation except for the specific surveillance
subcomponent of the fisheries component



- 20 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at      Status        Impact of study
appraisal / redefined
Forestry Component
Identification of     improve knowledge on  Done              important finding for
batracian species     biodiversity of Ziama                   on-going research
and Diecke forests                      and biodiversity
conservation
Socio-ecological study   Socio-economic     Done              participatory design
for the participation of  surveys on the rural                of the two forests
local populations in the  communities of the                  management plans
management of the     project area                            and for future
Ziama and Diecke                                              operation of the
forests                                     ___ project
Assessment of three    to take stock of three    Done         useful findings now
years of pilot        years of trials of local                utilized in new
plantations of        species plantations in                  plantations programs
indigenous species in    Ziama
the gazetted forest of
Ziama
Land Tenure
Component
2 land tenure case   to analyze traditional    Done           Not yet directly
studies              land tenure systems and                  used. Will be used
how they affect                         when management
production                              plans are
____________________ ___ ____ ___    implemented
Fisheries Component
Research studies     to estimate fish       Done              See table 5.B above
population and
characteristics



- 21 -
Table 8A: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
Project Component             Appraisal Estimate                Actual
1. Civil Works                             0.9                        0.9
2. Vehicles and Equipment                   1.5                        1.8
3. Consultants and training                2.8                         4.8
4. Operating Costs
Land Rights                             0.5                        1.1
Fisheries                               1.1                        0.1
Refinancing PPF                    -       0.5                         0.2
Unallocated                                0.7                         0.0           I
Total IDA Credit                           8.0                         8.9
Table 8B: Project Financing 12
(USS million)
Fisheries               Forestry                  Total             Total actual as
and Land Tenure
Source         Estimated    Actual   Estimated    Actual    Estimated    Actual             % of total
estimated
IDA                1.7         1.0         6.3         7.9          8.0         8.9            111
CCCE/CFD          2.0          2.4                                  2.0         2.4            120
CIDA               1.5         1.7                                  1.5         1.7            113
K(1W                       _________       5.5         6.6          5.5         6.6            120
Government        3.7          0.9         2.3         1.7          6.0         2.6             43
Total             8.9          6.0        14.1        16.2        23.0         22.2             97
Data was not obtained to do sarne breakdown for each financing source
Data was not obtained on the Govemment's actual contribution on the research sub-component. The total is thus short of such amount.
Govemment's contribution for the rest of the fisheries component (USS 0.9) includes USS 0.8 of CNSP's revenues from users fees.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits (1)
FORESTRY COMPONENT (2)
A. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (1990 GF millon) 20-year Analysis
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
VNA
|ECONOMIC COSTS                     7903   1621   1487   1193   1262   1241   1026    462   1417   1130   1367    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121
Instnutional Support       3305    804    767    512    282    536    564    169    538    419    513          0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0
For. and Protect. Devp.    3602    513    553    540    851    572    344    206    633    520    609    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121
Training                     995    208    168    141    129    134    119       77    247    192    235       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0
BM Financing                   1808    386    458    312    475    504    361         0
KNW Financing                  5190   1075    881    740    680    646    612    407   1296   1009   1236
State Financing                 908      61    148    141    107      91     54      45    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121
ECONOMICREVENUES                   2117      63     61     49    163    201    168    167    261.   290    399    460    604    620    634    479    413    386    403    419    427
State Fiscal Revenues          1001      50     25      16     85    118    107    131    140    148    156    157    191    200    208    214    202    208    219    229    235
zama                          84      0       0      0      0       0      0      2      7      10     12     10     29      34     37     37      27     29     34     37      37
Diecke                        66      0       0      0      0      0       0      2      4       7     10     10     24      25     28     29      23     24     25     28      29
Other                        852     50      25     16     85    118    106    127    130    132    134    136    138    141    143    147    151    156    160    164    169
Val addedforCornunity           1115      4     26      33     68     83      81     35    121    142    243    293    413    420    426    265    212    177    184    190    191
Ziarnia                      203      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      7     33      93     93     93      93     93     93     93      93     93
Dieck6                       168      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      7     33      76     76     76     76      76     76     76      76     76
Forestry Salanes             745      4      26     33     68      83     61     35    121    142    229    227    244    251    257       95      42      8      14     20     22
NET DIRECT RESULrs                -6786  -1468  -1436  -1144  .1109  -1041   -888   -286  -1166   -840   .968    329    483    499    613    368    292    264    282    298    306
NETINDIRECTREsULTS                  373      47     40     34      32     31     30      30     31     32     32      39     46     53      60     68     76      85     93    102    111
Game                              75      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      6      12     19     26     33     40      47     55     64      72
Fuetwood                        297      47     39      34     32     31      30     30     31     31      32     33     33     34      35     35     36      37     38     38     39
Ecotounsm                          1      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0
NET TOTAL RESULTS                 -5413   1421  -1397  -1110  -1077  -1010   -829   -255  .1125   -809   -926    368    529    552    573    426    368    349    375    400    417
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
Direct economirc rate of return===========-=-- =            -99%            Including indirect benefits     -77%
Discounted Equity                       Rate =   10%   =-S786 M on FG
1. No economic evaluation of the fisheries component was done In the absence of reliable data on future benefits.
2. Complete worldng paper on this analysis prepared by C. Taupiac is available in project files.



Table 9: (continued)
FORESTRY COMPONENTS SAR DATA
A - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (1990 GF million) - 20-year analysis
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
VNA
|ECONOMIC COSTS                     3995    557    836    974    929    836    371    139    164    184    164    184    164    184    164    184    164    184    164    184    164                      l
Institutional Support           1363    197    295    344    328    295    131          49      48     48      48      48     48      48      48     48      48      48      48     48      48
for and Protection Development   2125    282    423    493    470    423    188         70    116    116    116    116    116    116    116    116    116    116    116    116    116
Training                         507      78    118    137    131    118        52      20       0     20       0      20      0      20       0     20       0      20       0     20       0
|ECONOMIC REVENUES                  12196    -28    239    554    915   1316   1530   1744   1958   2172   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386   2386
NET RESULTS                         8201   -585   -597   -420    -14    480   1159   1605   1794   1988   2222   2202   2222   2202   2222   2202   2222   2202   2222   2202   2222
Direct Economic Rate of Retum                           =39==
Discounted Equity                        Rate=    10%  I  8201 Mon FG



- 24 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit     Covenant   Current   Original    Revised               Description of covenant                    Comments
Agreement      type       status   fulfillment  fulfillment
Section                             date        date
3.03 (a) (i)     I          CD                              Borrower will open 3 accounts in a       For the Fisheries component (part
commercial bank in Conakry               C), the account was opened on June
94 only
3.03 (a) (ii)    4          CD                              Borrower will deposit GF 80 million in the  All three amounts deposited with
project account for Part A; GF 10 million for  delay, especially for part C.
Part B and GF 125 million for Part C.
3.03 (b)         4          CD                              Replenish project accounts in accordance
with Section 3.04 (b)
3.04 (a)         5          CD      06/30/90                Design and set-up of Management
Information System for recording project
activities.
3.04 (b)                            I C  11/01/94           Submission of budgets and work plans for
respective operations for following year.    ___
3.04 (c)         9          C       06/30/94                Submission of evaluations of project     Progress reports, rather than
activities for the preceding year.       evaluations, were submitted
3.05             9          NC       No date                Mid-Term review of project conducted by  An review took place (for parts A
specified              Borrower                                 and B of the project) in Nov. /Dec.
in CA                                                          92 with the participation of FAO
and KfW. The project was
reoriented informally. But the Bank
failed to request - and help with - a
detailed formal report and follow-up
(a re-appraisal would have been
needed in this case).
3.06          2, 5 &12      CD                              Devise a system for awarding licenses,   The system was put in place and
imposing fees and tariffs, and for managing    became operational in 1995.
revenues
3.07 (a)       5 & 12       CP                              Make arrangement with the Borrower's Navy  CNSP was created (within system
to transport SEP's fisheries inspectors  mentioned above) to replace SEP.
Agreements CNSP/Navy are
temporary and need to be
_                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~renegotiated each year.
3.07 (b)         5          NC                              Retention of a private air service for   Waived; air surveillance is
surveillance                             addressed at regional level.
4.01 (a)          i         CP                              Maintenance of adequate data and accounts    For the Forestry and Land Tenure
u                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~components, there was no real
!                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~accounting system.
4.01 (b) i        I         C                               Audit of each fiscal year's data and accounts
4.01 (b) ii       I         C                               Submit to IDA, within 6 months following
the end of the fiscal year, a copy of the audit
report.
4.01 (b) iii      I        N.A.                             At IDA's request, submit information on  Monitoring by IDA of the accounts
financial data and audits.               and financial data has been
I                       I l                                        insufficient.
4.01 (c) i        I         C    |            |             Maintain data on SOEs
4.01 (c) ii       I         C                               Preserve documentation pertaining to SOEs
I_________  _________ Ifor at least one year after the audit
4.01 (c) iii      I         C                               Allow IDA to examine documentation
l_________   _________  l____ _  _pertaining  to  SOEs
4.01 (C) iv       I         C                               Separate opinion of auditors on SOEs
Covenant types:
1 = Accountslaudit                                              8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generation of revenues from beneficaries    9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                       10  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency       11  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                                     12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement                                    13 = Other



- 25 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Estimated            Revised              Actual
Project phase   Weeks     $US      Weeks       $US      Weeks      $US
Pre-appraisal    -          -         -         -        49.9      84,772
Appraisal         -         -         -          -       43.5      91,134
Negotiations      -         -         -          -        13.0     29,944
to board
approval
Supervision      -          -         -         -        123.5    288,915
Completion       -          -         7       18,410     11.8      20,046
Total             -         -         7       18,410     241.7    514,811



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Assessment of Performance
Project phase            Months/Years       No. of      No. of days in       Specialties      Status of implementation     Development             Types
persons         the field        represented                                     objectives          of problems
Up to appraisal              __|
Identification
FAO-CP I st              02/87          1              17               FO                                                                                      l
FAO-CP 2nd               05/87          5              24               ECO (2), FO (2)                                                                         l
Pre-appraisal                                                                                                                                 . ___
I st mission            03/88           I              10               FO                                                                                      i
2nd mission              10/88          6              12               AE, EC, ES, FA, FO,
FS                                                                                     I
Appraisal to board
approval                                                                                                                                                        l
03/89          5              11               EC (2), FA, FS, MS                                 .                                 .
Supervision
Ist mission             03/90           1              ii               EC                   Not rated                 Not rated            -
2nd mission             06/90           1              Not available     FA                  2                          I                         _
3rd mission              11/90          4              Not available     FO (2), FA (2)      2                          1                                       I
4th mission              05/91          2              27                FA, FO              2                          1 _  _   I        X                  _
5th mission              11/91          2              13               FA, FO               2                          2                   M
6th mission              06/92          2              6                 FA, FO              3                          2                    F, M
7th mission              12/92          2              11               AE, FO               3                          3                   F, L, M, T
8th mission              04/93          1              20               AE                   3                          3                   F, L, M, P, TA, TR
9th mission              08/93          3              Not available     AE, FO (2)          2                          2
10th mission             11/93          3              14               AE, FO               2                         2
12th mission            03/94           2              6                SE, FO               2                         2
13th mission            07/94           3             Not available     FA, NRM, LTS         S                         S                    F
14th mission             12/94          2              14               LEG, NRM             S                         S                    F
15th mission            05/95           l             Not available     ES                   S                         S                    F
16th mission            06/96           l             23                FS                   U                         U                    F
Completion mission       09/96          5              14               FO,FS,LTS,EC,MS   U                            U                    M
Types of problems:                                    Subject specialty
F:     Availability of counterpart funds              AE:    Agricultural economist
FP:    Financial performance                          EC     Economist
L:     Adherence to legal clauses                     ES     Environmental specialist
M:     Project management                             FA:    Financial analyst
P:     Progress with procurement                      FO:    Forester
TA:    Progress with technical assistance             FS      Fisheries specialist
TR:    Training                                       LEG    Lawyer
LTS    Land tenure specialist
MS     Management specialist
NRM    Natural resource mgmnt specialist



- 27 -                          Appendix A
Republique de Guinee
Proiet de Gestion des Ressources Forestieres et Halieutiques
(Credit 2068-GUI)
Mission conjointe d'elaboration du Rapport final sur l'execution (RFE) du projet
(15-27 sep. 1996: Guinee; 29 sep.- 4 oct. 1996: Wash. D.C.)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission conjointe de la Banque Mondiale et des co-bailleurs de fonds au projet
(KfW, ACDI, CFD) a sejourne en Guinee du 15 au 27 septembre 1996 dans le cadre de
l1'laboration du rapport Final sur l'Execution du projet (RFE). Cette mission etait composee de
M. Jacques Poirier, consultant (Poulin-Theriault, Canada), specialiste en politiques et
d6veloppement institutionnel du secteur forestier, Chef de mission et charge des composantes
"Forets" et "Plan Foncier"; M. Viad Kaczynski, consultant specialiste en pche maritime et
surveillance des peches, charge de la composante "Peches"; M. Christian Taupiac, ingenieur
forestier (AFTA3, Banque mondiale); M. Cherif Diallo, charge d'op6rations A la Mission
residente de la Banque mondiale A Conakry; les representants des co-bailleurs de fonds au projet:
pour la KfW: M. Didier Hubert, expert forestier (nouveau projet de la KfW - le "PGRR"); pour
l'ACDI: M. Fernand Marcoux, specialiste en developpement institutionnel et administration
publique (ACDI-Hull, Canada - Afrique et Moyen Orient), M. Richard Pelletier (ACDI-Dakar) et
M. Robert Thomassin, consultant, economiste et specialiste en administration; pour la CFD: M.
Luc Mogenet (Directeur adjoint du bureau de la CFD a Conakry). M. Claude Franqueville,
Conseiller en developpement rural et recherche au bureau de la Cooperation Francaise A Conakry
a egalement participe A cette mission, ainsi que les cadres du nouveau projet FAC/ORSTOM de
recherche halieutique.
2.    Des son arrivee A Conakry, la mission a rencontre le Ministre de IAgriculture, des Eaux
et Forets, S. E. M. Jean Paul Sarr, et le Ministre de la Peche et de l'Elevage, S.E. M. Boubacar
Barry. Ceux-ci ont designe M. Alkaly Bangoura A titre de coordonnateur guineen des travaux du
RFE concernant les composantes "Foret" et "Plan Foncier Rural" et M. Mamba Korouma,
conseiller du Ministre, pour la composante "Peche". La mission a aussi rencontre le ministre de
l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat, S.E. M. Alfa Ousmane Diallo. Au cours de cette rencontre la
mission a ete informee par le ministre que la coordination entre le MAEF et le MUH sera
significativement amelioree pour assurer la gestion du domaine foncier rural. Par ailleurs, ces
entretiens ont egalement confinnr A la mission que le nouveau Gouvernement guineen classe le
secteur des "Peches" au second rang de ses priorites economiques, le premier etant le secteur des
douanes.
3.    Les reformes introduites recemment dans le secteur des pches sont les suivantes:
(i)    Le Gouvemement considere la peche comme un secteur economique prioritaire dans
l'economie nationale. Ceci a ete confirme par le Premier Ministre durant son discours inaugural.
Des reformes importantes sont sur le point d'etre introduites et le MPE doit produire bientot un
plan d'urgence pour resoudre les problemes les plus importants et donner les orientations
strategiques dans ce secteur;
(ii)    Actuellement, le MPE revise en profondeur les pratiques de gestion et d'administration
dans le secteur de la peche. A titre d'exemple, des regles de discipline et des contr6les accrus ont



- 28 -                           Appendix A
ete instaurees (Commission Speciale d'lnvestigation Financiere) afin de faire la lumiere sur les
irregularites survenant dans l'octroi des licences de peche et dans la gestion des recettes qu'elles
generent et des autres paiements au Tresor public et au CNSP.
(iii)  II est prevu un renforcement accru de l'autonomie du CNSP par l'acquisition d'un ou
plusieurs bateaux de surveillance que le Centre effectuera de maniere independante;
(iv)   Les efforts de cooperation bilaterale au niveau sous-regional s'intensifieront notamment
avec la Guinee-Bissau pour ameliorer les performances du systeme guineen de surveillance et en
reduire les cofits par une association des moyens et des capacites des deux pays;
(v)    Conjointement avec la Guinee-Bissau, le Gouvernement de la Guinee compte renegocier
les accords de peche avec l'etranger, notamment avec l'Union europeenne.
(vi)   Du fait de l'importance et de l'urgence de ces actions, le ministre du MPE a mentionne
qu'il souhaiterait solliciter le soutien de la Banque mondiale dans plusieurs de ces initiatives cl6s.
Dans une correspondance A cet effet, le ministre enoncera plus clairement de quelle facon la
Banque serait invitee A cooperer.
4.     La mission a rencontre l'Ambassadeur du Canada a Conakry, son Excellence M. Denis
Briand. Suite A cet entretien, I'ACDI a rnis par ecrit sa contribution A l'evaluation du projet, selon
le canevas propos6 par la Banque. Cette contribution sera prise en compte dans le rapport final
sur l'execution du projet (RFE).
5.     La mission a ensuite effectue plusieurs rencontres sectorielles avec les cadres du MAEF,
du MPE, du MUH, de la DNFF, du SNRF, du CNSP en plus de rencontres de travail avec
l'assistance technique canadienne au CNSP, la Coop6ration Francaise, et la CFD pour y recueillir
les informations statistiques et les donnees pertinentes pour lI'laboration du RFE. Ces rencontres
ont permis de constater que les donnees requises par la Banque mondiale n'etaient pas encore
disponibles A l'arrivee de la mission a Conakry. Devant ce probleme, les consultants ont donc
programme des sessions intensives de travail avec leurs homologues guineens respectifs pour
que les donnees requises soient produites avant le depart du territoire guineen. Celles-ci furent
remises A l'etat d'ebauche non officielle dans les dernieres heures 2r6cddent le d6part de la
mission. C'est la raison pour laquelle la mission n'a pas pu laisser l'aide-memoire avant son
depart car elle a ete trop occupee A la toute dernire minute A faire l1'valuation de ces donnees
tant pour la composante "PNche" que "Forets" et "Plan Foncier Rural". Des donnees sur les
performances et les couts de la surveillance en mer ont ete promises A la mission par le CNSP
pour le 4 octobre 1996. Le rapport d'evaluation finale de l'emprunteur remis A la mission pour la
composante "Peche" suit le canevas propose par la Banque. II en est de meme pour la
composante "Forets" et "Plan foncier rural". La principale faiblesse de ces rapports est le
manque de mesures concretes pour garantir la perennite et l'operation future du projet.
6.     Lors des reunions de "debriefing" avec le ministre du MAEF et le Secretaire general du
MPE, la mission a obtenu l'accord de la partie guineenne que toutes les donnees necessaires a
l1'laboration du RFE seront revisees, corrigees, approuvees et transmises par le gouvemement
guineen dans le format requis par la Banque au plus tard le 11 octobre 1996 au siege de
Washington. Ceci inclut le Plan pour l'operation future du projet par le Gouvemement guineen
et qui est - A condition de la mettre en oeuvre rapidement - d'une importance capitale pour la



- 29 -                            Appendix A
Guinee. La mission a et informee que ce plan devrait etre approuve par le Conseil
interministeriel.
7.     La mission a aussi permis de realiser une analyse economique de la composante
forestiere. Cette analyse a porte sur les couts et recetttes/avantages financiers et economiques du
projet. Elle a evalue sur l'ensemble du secteur les perspectives de recouvrement fiscaux (foret et
chasse). Plus particulierement sur les massifs forestiers de Ziama et Diecke, elle a estime les
impacts economiques sur l'Etat et les collectivites locales des amenagements forestiers pour
l'horizon 1990-20 10; 1'estimation des recettes forestieres (situations avec et sans projet) generees
par les travaux d'amenagement forestier dans les series d'utilisation durable et d'amelioration;
1'estimation des charges recurrentes pour l'amenagement des massifs de Ziama, Diecke et du
Mont Bero; le taux de rentabilite economique de la composante forestiere et les benefices nets
autres que ceux tires de l'exploitation forestiere(chasse, bois de chauffe, ecotourisme, plantes
medicinales et fruits sauvages). Ces analyses ont et communiquees a la partie guineenne dans
la perspective de la preparation du Plan pour l'operation future du projet.
8.     Les principaux enseignements de ces analyses se resument comme suit:
(i)    de facon gendrale un couit financier et economique depassant dans des
proportions tres importantes les previsions;
(ii)    une rentabilite inteme negative due essentiellement au changements d'orientation
du projet en faveur d'une plus grande protection de la biodiversite ce qui a eu pour consequence
de soustraire deux tiers de la superficie des forets classees de Ziama et Diecke a l'exploitation
industrielle, contrairement a ce qui etait planifie au debut du projet.
(iii)   pour les massifs forestiers de Ziama, Diecke et Mont Bero, des charges
recurrentes de 557,4 millions de FrG/an seront necessaires, qui ne sont pas couvertes par les
recettes estimees de l'Etat;
(iv)   une augmentation considerable des besoins en main-d'oeuvre a I'horizon 1998-
2004 pour executer les travaux d'amenagement forestier et la sylviculture tels que prevus dans
les plans de gestion proposes, sans identification pour autant des capacites locales. La mission
est d'avis que les gestionnaires devraient se preoccuper des a present de l'etalement de cette
demande et des disponibilites de main-d'oeuvre en quantite suffisante.
(v)    un avantage considerable et "gratuit" retire par les communautes locales des
operations forestieres menees dans les massifs amenag6s soit plus de 2.5 milliards de FRG
actualises 1996 dans les 20 ans a partir de salaires forestiers mais aussi des revenus non
monetaires (bois de chauffe, viande de brousse);
(vi)   la durabilite du projet passe par la capacite de l'Etat de fiscaliser ces revenus
importants des communautes locales alors que pendant la meme periode, il percevra 2.2
milliards FRG (valeur 1996) sous forme de taxes sur les produits forestiers et de la chasse.
(vii)   La mission a egalement recommande de renforcer le systeme de suivi comptable
du projet.



- 30 -                            Appendix A
Tous ces elements doivent alimenter l'elaboration du Plan pour l'operation future du projet.
Cette approche est egalement valable pour le secteur des peches ou I'Etat guineen compte
augmenter sensiblement ses recettes en renforcant les mecanismes de surveillance et de contr6le
dans l'emission des licences de p8che.
9.     Plusieurs sessions intensives de travail de la mission conjointe permis de tirer des lecons
dont la Guinee devra s'inspirer pour l'elaboration du Plan pour l'op6ration future du projet tant
pour les composantes "Forets et Plan foncier rural" que pour la composante "Peche". Les
principaux constats de la mission sont les suivants:
10.    ComRosante Forets et Plan foncier rural:
(i)    le projet a connu des changements importants depuis son lancement le ler septembre
1990: le plus significatif decoule de la mission de supervision de novembre 1991 qui a
recommande d'apporter une plus grande attention a la conservation de la riche biodiversitd des
massifs classes de Ziama et Diecke, a la mise en place de mesures de promotion des activites
economiques des populations riveraines et l'integration de celles-ci avec la composante OPPFR
(Operation pilote de plan foncier rural). Le RFE devra prendre en compte ces changements
majeurs egalement pour l'elaboration du Plan pour l'opration future du projet.
(ii)    necessite d'une concertation accrue entre les acteurs institutionnels MAEF, MUH, pour
la gestion durable des ressources forestieres et du domaine foncier rural (mesures concretes) et
ressources institutionnelles requises;
(iii)   meilleure utilisation des ressources humaines forrnees par le projet et affectation de ces
dlements dans les postes de travail pertinents avec la formation dispensee (cadre organique
approprie);
(iv)   renforcement des actions visant a deconcentrer la gestion forestiere et du domaine
foncier rural en associant davantage les populations locales au processus decisionnel par le
truchement des communautes rurales de developpement (CRD);
(v)    poursuite des efforts amorces par le projet pour accroitre les benefices tangibles de
l'amenagement forestier et de la mise en valeur du potentiel des ressources rurales pour les
populations riveraines (mesures concretes et programme d'action retenu par les institutions co-
responsables: MAEF,MUH);
(vi)   renforcement des mesures d'appui aux populations paysannes pour l'amelioration de leur
niveau de vie et la reconnaissance de leurs droits d'usufruit des ressources foncieres dans la zone
appuyee par le projet (mesures retenues?);
(vii)   mise en place d'une planification operationnelle et budgetaire permettant de programmer
et de mettre en r6serve les ressources requises pour realiser les actions prevues au Plan pour
l'operation future du projet; a ce titre, le budget national d'investissement pour le secteur forestier
et plan foncier rural doit etre prepar6 sur la base des travaux a realiser au cours de l'horizon de
planification retenu.
I.    Comwosante Peche: la mission a etabli que les acquis du projet se resumaient en huit
points: (i) creation d'une unit6 autonome administrative et de gestion/contr6le des ressources de



- 31 -                             Appendix A
la ZEE; (ii) mise en place d'une legislation des peches (y compris surveillance et processus
d'arraisonnement); (iii) constitution d'un cadre de specialistes en surveillance et gestion; (iv)
collaboration avec la Marine; (v) gestion continue et integree des ressources halieutiques (plan
annuel de gestion des peches); (vi) incorporation du volet scientifique: relations entre le CNSHB
et le CNSP) et creation d'une base de donnees sur les ressources; (vii) strategie et planification
des activites de surveillance; (viii) introduction d'un systeme de gestion financi&e et materielle.
12.    Pour l'immediat, la mission a egalement retenu: (i) la capacite autonome du CNSP de
terminer la construction et l'amenagement des locaux de formation a Conakry en vue de leur
inauguration prochaine (Centre de formation et de compte-rendu de observateurs, bibliotheque et
espace d'entreposage); (ii) la mise en reserve par le CNSP d'une somme de $ US 140,000 pour
continuer la construction de la base de surveillance de Kamsar (decision prise apres le refus de la
Banque mondiale d'etendre la dur6e du credit); (iii) une commission financiere speciale a et
mise sur pied afin d'examiner la situation financiere du CNSP et de ses activites ainsi que pour
identifier les irregularites dans la vente des licences de peche. Toutes ces mesures indiquent que
le Gouvemement est s6rieusement engage dans une reforme de la gestion de ce secteur (en
particulier le CNSP et sa composante scientifique), A accroitre les mesures de protection des
ressources halieutiques et rentabiliser les investissements faitsjusqu'A present au CNSP et dans
d'autres sous-secteurs.
13.    La mission a remis aux guineens un jeux de donnees sur l'analyse economique de la
composante Foret. II a ete convenu que la partie guineenne en ferait I'analyse et une validation
afin que ces donnees puissent etre integrees au rapport final sur l'execution (RFE) de la Banque.
La partie guineenne pourra aussi s'en inspirer, si elle le juge opportun, pour quantifier son Plan
pour l'operation future du projet. La mission a rappele a de multiples occasions A la partie
guineenne(niveaux ministeriels, cadres superieurs du projet) l'importance pour la Guinee du Plan
pour l'opIration future du proiet en insistant sur l'imperative necessite de guantifier et de
programmer les mesures qui seront preconisees par le Gouvernement guineen pour capitaliser
sur Jes acquis du projet dans sa phase de developpement.
14.    Dans le secteur des peches et tout particulierement pour l'elaboration du Plan pour
l'operation future du projet, le ministre du MPE a indique etre d'avis qu'il faut s'attaquer aux
questions suivantes:
(i)    Augmenter l'efficacite de la collecte de la redevance des licences, des taxes de
surveillance et des primes d'observateurs;
(ii)    Rendre la procedure d'arraisonnement et la perception des amendes plus rapides, plus
transparentes et plus efficaces car seulement 17% des amendes sont effectivement per,ues;
(iii)   Etudier les options de privatisation partielle du CNSP pour des activites comme
l'inspection des ports et la surveillance de l'arrivage des bateaux locaux et etrangers, la gestion
des cargaisons confisquees, les services de maintenance et de r6paration de la flotte de
surveillance avec I'aide des bailleurs de fonds internationaux;
(iv)    Realiser l'engagement du gouvernement de terminer la construction d'un centre de
surveillance A Kamsar;



- 32 -                            Appendix A
(v)    Reduire les couts d'operation du CNSP en augmentant la productivite au travail, utilisant
a pleine capacite les infrastructures et equipements de formation, partageant les couts de
surveillance avec la Guinee-Bissau, reduisant les frais d'operation de la flotte de surveillance;
(vi)  *Dans le moyen terme, proteger les stocks commerciaux qui ont considerablement reduit
au cours des dix demrieres annees et arreter l'invasion par les navires industriels locaux et
6trangers des zones c6tieres reservees aux pecheurs artisanaux et A la reproduction des ressources
halieutiques.
15.    La mission et la partie guin6enne ont convenu que le Plan pour l'operation future du
pro jet (Forets, Plan foncier rural et Peches) doit interagir avec la revision de la Lettre de
Politique du Developpement Agricole (LPDA), en cours.
16.    La mission souhaite porter a la connaissance de la partie guineenne, que la Banque
attend toujours (i) le rapport d'audit rectifie de la composante PROGERFOR et (ii) le rapport
d'audit sur la composante fonciere OPPFR; et (iii) des reponses aux telecopies de l'IDA en dates
du 27 juin et 10 septembre 1996 concemant ces audits. Enfin, la mission rappelle que l'audit final
de la comPosante "Pche" devra parvenir A la Banque mondiale au plus tard le 31 decembre
1996.
Pour la mission:
Jacques Poirier, ing.f., Chef de mission
2 octobre 1996



- 33 -                           Appendix B
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR
The Borrower's comments on the draft ICR were spelled out in a letter of April 23, 1997
from the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests, and in a letter of
June 5, 1997 from the Minister of Fisheries and Livestock. The paragraphs below are a verbatim
reproduction of these two letters.
PARTIE FORET ET PLAN FONCIER RURAL
Globalement, nous apprdcions la qualite du resumd du rapport final d'execution du Projet de
Gestion des Ressources Forestieres et Halieutiques.  II faut remarquer que les vues de
l'emprunteur ont et prises en compte telles qu'elles ont et exprimees dans le document
original.
Pour ce qui concerne les tableaux d'analyse, I'Emprunteur tient A apporter quelques
observations.
De l'atteinte des objectifs
Les objectifs poursuivis par le projet sont ceux qui ont ete initialement formul6s dans le cadre de
son evaluation. Faute d'une veritable mission de supervision qui aurait concretement defini des
indicateurs objectivement verifiables les r6ajustements intervenus ont peu ou pas pris reellement
en compte certains objectifs fondamentaux tels que ceux relatifs A la reduction de la pauvrete, la
promotion de la femme, etc....
Meme si ces objectifs avaient et poursuivis, il serait premature de faire unjugement sur les
resultats atteints au cours de quatre (4) annees seulement d'execution du projet. Plusieurs annees
auraient ete necessaires - 10 ans - pour constater une reelle amelioration des conditions de vie
des populations rurales concernees qui d'ailleurs n'ont ete impliquees que tardivement dans le
processus de gestion des forets.
De la durabilite du projet
L'Emprunteur convient que cette durabilite est incertaine. Cependant, cette affirmation se
justifie tres peu dans la mesure oi les actions entreprises par le projet de gestion des ressources
forestieres (PROGERFOR) sont actuellement poursuivies par la KfW du moins pour ce qui
concerne la gestion forestiere. On estime donc que ceci devrait etre precise clairement dans le
present rapport.
11 faut egalement noter que l'ajournement du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Rurales (PGRR)
apres cinq (5) annees de preparation intense n'a pas permis de soutenir cette durabilite.
En effet, c'est bien le PGRR qui aurait permis de corriger des lacunes du projet precedent et de
poursuivre certaines activites inachevees notamment celles de l'Operation Pilote du Plan Foncier
et de la gestion des forets seches.



- 34 -                           Appendix B
Enfin, il faut noter que les donnees statistiques sont globalement appreciables. Cependant, les
tableaux demeurent moins parlants, ce qui rend difficile leur comprehension. II est donc
necessaire de les faire accompagner d'une note explicative pour en faciliter la comprehension.
PARTIE PECHES
L'analyse de ce rapport ne suscitant aucune objection de mon Departement, je vous notifie mon
approbation sur son contenu.
Aussi, je note avec satisfaction l'objectivite qui le caracterise notamment en ce qui concerne
1'evaluation de 1'execution de la composante peche du projet.
L'appreciation faite par votre Institution sur les objectifs du projet, la performance des bailleurs
de fonds et celle de l'emprunteur, l'impact et les enseignements tires du projet, ainsi que les
principaux facteurs ayant affecte son execution, recoupent parfaitement le constat deja etabli par
mes services techniques.
Le Ministere de la Peche et de I'Elevage se felicite des grands progres qu'il a enregistres grace
au projet et apprecie hautement la contribution des bailleurs de fonds dont celle de votre
institution.
En depit de ces acquis importants, il convient de noter la necessite d'assurer leur consolidation et
leur extension pour permettre a mon pays de tirer pleinement profit des r6alisations du projet.
A cet effet, votre soutien et votre contribution financiere et technique pour la poursuite du projet
dans sa composante p&he s'averent necessaires.
Pour assurer la durabilite effective et efficiente des acquis du projet, mon Departement ne
menagera aucun effort pour le renforcement de son autonomie administrative et de gestion.
Cette demarche est deja amorcee et permettra sans aucun doute au Centre National de
Surveillance et Protection des Peches (CNSP) de mieux s'epanouir et developper ses activites.
L'engagement du Gouvernement dans ce sens est tangible et s'exprime deja a travers le
financement de certaines activites du CNSP qu'il assure notamment par la demultiplication des
bases de surveillance le long de la c6te et l'intensification de patrouilles de surveillance.
Je porte a votre attention que le document d' information sur la cl6ture du credit IDA est annexe a
notre rapport final d'execution du projet (RFE) qui vous a et transmis en Octobre 1996,
comporte differentes donnees statistiques sur l'execution de la composante peche notamment sur
les aspects de I'assistance technique, la formation et le financement.



IBRD 21653
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                                                              GUINEA
SENEGAL                              >_ ___S E N E G A L                                                                                               FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
'SENEGAL             M A L I                                                                                                                                                               FOREST COVER
-     ndMIA5                   R ,, / URKINA               ou n-_
osnun. ~  ~           r    FASO*   ud
SIIERRA LEONE 
Dt8EA-,  RE  \GHANA                         '
<-t X eg? X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A L I
, 4
*       Institueonal SupportI
*       Natranl Forest Management--                                                  isClgrR d                                             1        .      .-..            .     N            4   .............                 _
3J       Humid Forest                                    ,                          Rier                                                 "      /G Is s't;                                        '          "'
0)       Dry Forest (see map 21599)                                                             D      _                                        7sPP  R'
rFEC2ON    Natural Regionst                                       ~       -     -     Peelr  0nais\o           
1\Rair Forest                                                                    Region Boundaries jXs        >
-8-  Lili       Savannah toBvsh Savannah                                       -. -        International Boundaries                              g(t                                                       )     1                            -
ELi.]   Bush to Tree Savannah -      e  l.a.;. 
|Fovta Dialon (hilly, lightlyforested, upland plateau)                           KIOE25, 20 4                  S    80 loL IB                             R IA                    -z                ri             jo
*:.- .  Light Forest tO Tree Savannah                                      ,                         o       2        40       O                                                             _      ,D ec i'.
Mhangrove Svvamps                                                     N.                              nrath , dlOrs and 'aan v  Sue~~ no pr,tfnm@e  usat T5e kirF^d re Qa, and t5a k,an5 '"  ''  
[jj         Light Forest with Swaimpy Areas                                             z-.c                Fnran.a Carnnrasenun annrtenwa .554 annd St Snedae Stn.t mn ep mae eno " n
1 4 *                                     ~2                            etn 5a lBana stan voS any Santw wav nnewaaman >  two 5,w acmtaw oa n=et at) 55 u*8-
K.,J
GZI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 95






.12o  SENEGALA                                                         '                                                                     8.
f  MALI                    7,2(j, Q                )GUINEA
C  1 ~ f   o    FORESTRY FISHERIES MANAGEMENT
PROJ ECT
Dry Forest Cover                 12
,/  -  , ,Dry forests
Forests included in the
project
-Paved roads
Passable roads
Sigui'ri'               ~~~lsohyets in mm
--Rivers
4                             -       International boundaries
W    = 400km2 or 40,000ha
Dngu rayer       (W
0     25     5p KILOMETERS
IV,  Al.                                                    Man diana
amou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
e                                                   k                 r10/ t   JX    \                                                       -1                       7
-10   12<                             _1                                                                             X t@bH g A aran                101
/  MAURITANIA    |\                     Frnh                      \t          S',                                                            CO( TE:
tN 9, \ ) / J/ t \ O~~~~~~~~'IVOIRE
(E N EA  MALI a      
>- GAMBIA                                                      
GU--              FAS     O ASO/
m  oiak                            S I E RR Ma J 
B              E        OE       HN        LEO  NE                           SKs  iougou  \                        Kerouane 6
At/Oan                                                                      ) t
co                                                                             T   O Guek6dou       \             To Macenta                                            1.80v






>              ~GUINEA
BISSAU
-,,--BISSAU                                                                                                    MALI
Siguiri
/)~~~ j7K \                                                                                                                       a :   '
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Boke                                      Dabola
0                                                      0
Kamsar                                                             Koroussa
0 
Mandiana
B Boffa                                    Faranah
10                                                                                                                                          1 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ini 
Taboriah 0
CONAKRY *   0 Dubreka
GUINEA                                     o Forecariah
FORESTRY FISHERIES MANAGEMENT                           Coyah 0ora
PROJ ECT                                Benty,
FISHERIES
Fisheries - High potential                                          SIERRA                       Guekeou
Isobath (water depth) in meters                      FREETOWN    LEONE                             0                                     ,
Rivers
0     Main towns
-8>   *  National capitals                                                                                                               Lol
International boundaries                                                                                            N' ererkkor'    0
16'                                                                                                    Yomou    \                 C T
1                                                                                                                                 COT
MAURITANIA                                                                                         LIBERIA                            D'IVOIRE
SE NEGAL \                            
THE
GAMBIA               MALI
BISSAVUIE
0             100            200 KILOMiTERS
LEONE      D *  ECOT                                                                                                                                    tQ
co                  LIBERIA                                                                                                                                              Ul
U:l         1                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14                  12                              10,                               it,       k









IMAGING
Report No.:          16672
Type:     ICR



