Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C'z ,e Ro6f 
Report No. 7830-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
^EPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MNAGEMENT PRJIECT
September 8, 1989
Agricultural Operations
Occidental and Central African Department
lbis document bu a restctd dstibution and may be und by reipiens cly lu the perfonnan   of
thefr offiec  dties. It contents nay nsot otwwse be dbcosed withou Wold Blnk autoiakton



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Guinean Franc (GF)
US$1 - GF 590 a/
SDP1 - US$1.2 b/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE        -     Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (France)
CIDA        -     Canadian International Development Agency
DNFC        -     Direction Nationale des Forêts et de la Chasse
DNPA        -     Direction Nationale des Pêches et de l'Aquaculture
DRF         -     Division des Ressources Foncières
EAP         -     Environmental Action Plan
EEC         -     European Economic Commuity
EEZ         -     Exclusive Economic Zone
FAC         -     Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (France)
FED         -     European Development Fund
FRG         -     Federal Republic of Germany
IDB         -     Islamic Development Bank
RfW         -     Rreditanstalt fUr Viederaufbau (Federal Republic
of Germany)
NARA        -    Ministère de l'Agriculture et des lessources
Animales
MCS         -     Monitoring, Control and Surveillance System
MEN         -     Ministère de l'Education Nationale
MSY         -     Maximum Sustainable Yield
OPPI        -     Office pour la Protection des Pêches Industrielles
ORSTOM      -     Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
d'Outre-Mer
PAG         -     Projet Agricole de Guéckédou
SEP         -     Secrétariat d'Etat à la Pêche
SERS        -     Secrétariat d'Etat à la Recherche Scieatifique
SOGUIPECHE  -     Société Guinéenne des Pêches
UNEP        -     United Nations Environmental Protection
USAID       -     United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/ The exchange rate is established through an auction system and vas GF 590
to the U.S. dollar at the time of negotiations (August 1989).
b/ As of August 1989.



]FOR OMCLL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ...                .      .. ....... iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........  ...................... .     ......   iv
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR .........................   .vii
I.   INTRODUCTION .................................................. .      1
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND                     ........  2
Economic Setting                    ........ 2
Agricultural Sector             ......... .  ..2
Forestry                        ........ 3
Fisheries ..... . . .................  .                    ....    7
Environment ....................... .............. ......... . . . ..   il
IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience ...........................   12
III.  THE PROJECT .    .................................................. O..   13
A. Project Rationale and Objectives               ..                 14
B. Project Description ........                             ..  14
1. Natural Forest Management ..............................    14
2. Land Rights Pilot Operation ............................    15
3. Management of Offshore Fisheries ................. .......   15
C. Detailed Features ........................................... .  15
1. Natural Forest Maragement               .       . .....  15
(a)  Institutional Support      .     ......... . .. .  15
(b`  Humid Forest Protection, Management & Silviculture   16
(c)  Dry Forest Protection and Management ..............  19
2.  Land Rights Pilot Operation ........ ...................  19
3.  Management of Offshore Fisheries ................. .....  20
(a)  Institutional Support .   ............................  20
(b)  Surveillance ..   ....................................   21
(c) Research. ..     .......................................  21
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission which took
place March 6-23, 1989, and consisted of Messrs. R. Crown (Mission Leader), B.
de Chazal, M. Grut, Ms. L. Vardle (Bank staff), and Messrs. R. Allain, P. de
Hollain and P. Harou (Consultants). Ms. M. Layton copy-edited the report.
This document bas a r_strcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their oMcial duties. lis contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without Wortd Bank authoization.



ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                       Paae No.
D. Project Cost and Financing     .................................... *  22
Cost Estimates ........................................  * .   22
Project Preparation Facility ................................  23
Fini ncing Plan...   .................................       24
Financial Management Systems ................ ............... . 24
Auditing And  Reporting Requirements    .             ...... 24
Procurement ...... ..   ......................               25
Disbursement ............     .     ........................... . .  26
Revolving  Funds ............................... ...... ....  26
IV. ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMET ...................... * . ............ 27
Forest Protection and Management ................... .......... 27
Land Rights Pilot Operation      ,.....................  27
Management of Offshore Fisheries ............................... 28
V.   PRODUCTION. MARPETS AND PRICES. AND FINÂNCIAL IMPLICATIONS ........ 29
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......    ........................... 31
VII. ASSURANCES OBTAINED. CONDITIONS AND RECOMOENDATION .................  34
ANNEXES
3-1  Schedule of Technical Assistance
3-2  Project Cost, Forestry and Lant Rights Pilot Operation, by Coeiponent
and Year
3-3  Project Cost, Forestry and Land Rights Pilot Operation, by Component
and Financing
3-4  Project Cost, Fisheries, by Component and Year
3-5   Project Cost, Fisheries, by Component and Financing
3-6  Disbursement Schedule
4-1  Organizational Structure - Forestry
4-2  Organizational Structure - Fisheries
5-1  Production and Benefits - Forestry
5-2  Production and Benefits - Fisheries
5-3  Government Cash Flow - Forestry and Land Rights
5-4  Government Cash Flow - Fisheries
6-1  Economic Rate of Return - Forestry
6-2  Economic Rate of Return - Fisheries
MAPS: IBRD No 21653 Guinea Forestry Cover
IBRD No 21599 Guinea Dry Forestry Cover
IBRD No 21598 Guinea Fisheries



iii
"PUBLIC OF OUrll
FO8ESTRY AND FISEElIES NANGDI? 10.10
»OCtMNTS CONTAIJND IN Tu$  110s¢$ VSIL
A.  DOC 8U?S AND SEPOITS
1.     Projet forestier, Mission d'identification. FAO/COP
March '987.
2.     Development Stratogy of the Gtulean Indu6trial Fiherioe  Betor.
V.M. Xacsynski, July 1987.
3.     Projet forestier, Rapport de Préparation. FAO/CPI September 1987
4.     Projet de Protection et Surveillance des Pêche  en Guinde.
Summary of Feasibility Report. CIDA, Novembsr 1987.
5.     Rapport de Post-Pr6paration, FAO/CP,  fay 1988.
6.     Fisheries Management Component. Robert Alli;n, November 1988,
B.   STAFF WORKING PAPERS
1.     Support for Forestry Institutions.
2.     Forest Protection sd Management, Humid Forest.
3.     Land Rights Pilot Operation.
4.     Forest Protection and Management, Dry Forest.
5.     Management of Offshore Fisheries.
6.     Detailed Cost Tables.
7.     Production Data.
8.     Economic Analysis.



iv
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PRWJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNMAV
Borrowert         Government of Guinea
Beneficiaries:    Miniatry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (NARA) and
State Secretariat of Fisheries (SEP)
Amount:           SDR 6.3 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
Term_s            Standard IDA terms with 40 year maturity.
Prolect
Description:      The four-year project vill strengthen Guinea*s institutions
for the  protection of humid and dry  forests,  initiate
improvements in land tenure security in the humid fo est
region, and develop Guinea's institutional framework for the
management and surveillance of its fish resources.  These
actions vill be implemented throughs
(a)   providing  institutional  support  to  the  Direction
Nationale des Forets et Chasse (DNPC) through a teceb-ical
assistance and training program and the improvement of
office conditions at headquarters in Conekry and at the
prefecture level;
<b)   providing a protection and management system for the
humid forest through development of a management plan,
roads, enrichment planting, improvement of existing
stands, and reforestation.   For the forest in drier
areas (the dry forest), action would include demercation,
gazetting and protection;
(c)   undertaking the inventory of land rights around the humid
forests, as a pilot operation;
(d)   developing a legislative framework (Fisheries Code) to
regulate fishing activities in Guinea's Exclusive
Economic Zone (EEZ), limiting total fishing so as to
maintain adequate fish stock levels for future
exploitation, managing access to fishing zones by
granting licenses, and negotiating improved bilateral
agreements vith foreign fishing companies;
(e)   implementing a compliance monitoring program for offshore
fisheries  through  a  land/sealair  operation  and
communication system;



v
(f)   executing research at sea and in the laboratory for
scientific analysis of the fish biomass in Guinea's EE2,
and recommending safe harvesting leveles and
(g)   strengthening the organization and management of   SEP
through a technical assistance program and trsining.
Estimated Prolect Coet. j            oa        fr/'s        k 
LnCIIl    Foroet     Totil       X  of
-US--liion)---    Base Comt
Forest M_naomm nt and Land Rimhts
Institutional Support                0.6        2.7        a.2        18
ganagement and Protection            1.5        8.         6.0        28
Training                             0.8        1.0        1.8         ?
Land Rlghts                          0.8        1.8        1.6         9
Sub-Total                                     El        11          W
Fisherles Man,tç
Inetitutional Support                0.2        1.S        1.7         9
Survol lance                         1.8        1.7        8.6        20
Renarch                              C 1        1.ô        1.7         9
sub-total                           ;1                              Il :
Total Base Coet                      4.7       18.8       18.0       100
Physical Contingencies             0.4        0.7        1.1         6
Prtce Contingencl.s                2.1        1.8        8.9        22
Total Project Cost (Qncluding taxes)  7.2      16.8       23.0       128
Taxa                                 2.0        -          2.0        il
Total Project Comt                   5.2       15.8       21.0       117
nj Inctudino a PPF of USsao,000.
Tentative Financina Plan            Loc l      For tan    Total
=-        ("usMill ton)-
Covernment                           4.1          1.9       6.0
IDA                                  1.6          6.4      8.0
Kfw                                  1.4          4.1       5.5
CCCE                                 0.1          1.9       2.0
CIDA                                 -            1.6       1.5
Total                             7.2         16.8      28.0
E ti.ated Diabureemente of IDA Credit
IDA Flscal Yer
1990     1191      1902     ]99B      1994      1998    1996
--U  usrT i io-n-
Annuel        956       1,484    1,672    1,698    1,484       687      289
Cumulative    96       2,800    4,062    6,655    7,089    7,726   7,905



vi
Benefits and Risks
Benefits.   The project vill improve the management and protection of
Guinea's humid and dry forests. It vill also protect the ecological value of
these forests, develop the institutional capability of the Forest Department,
increase goverament revenue, and provide incremental wood production for domestic
use and export-. The land rights pilot operation vill have long-term benefits
by increasing stability in farme-.' land rights and, therefore, promote
investments in land conservation.  2 -.nea's ocean fish resources vill be managed
and protected by the reinforcement of the institutional capabilities of SEP.
Improved licensing procedures for fishing companies, combined with the monitoring
of f ishing, vould increase government revenue, stimulate the local private
f ishing industry, and provide an additional supp.y of fish for the domestic
market and exports.      The economic rates of return on the humid forest and
fisheries components are estimated to be about 392 for forestry and 322 for
fisheries.
Risks. The project does not appear to present major technological risks
since similar systems have been successfully implemented in neighboring
countries.   The principal risk of the project is the possible inability of
Guinean staff vorking in each subsector to assimilate the skills necessary for
project management. The technical assistance sad training provided under the
project, along vith the presently high degree of government commitment, will
minimize this risk.  There are risks that the land tenure pilot operation 'di1
not work due to conflict between traditional tenure systeme and modern sys..a
to be introduced under the project. For this reason the component vas designed
to be implemented slowly and flexibly, and to be redesigned during project
execution based on experience.  Lcvs vill be revised and staff trained to
facilitate this process. In the case of the fisheries monitoring, control and
surveillance system, the major risk ls the inadequate supervision of foreign
f ishing vessels. The legal f ramevork (Fisheries Code) foreseen under the project
for the licensing and monitoring of fishing operations, combined vith the fishing
component's focus on monitoring, vill reduce this risk.



vli
REPUSUC OF CUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES IAOEM!NT PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR
Average
Unit       ~~1974-7d          M96
1. Ç22u{ation                                    Ui
m                      4.7          6.8
Rural es % of Total                          X                      84.0        78.0
Rural Fel dîes                                                     811.0       770.0
2. EconomTc Overvlew
WP/Hoed of Total Population
(cons. 1981)                               8                     810.0       304.0
Agric. ODP/Head of
Rural Doevlopment                         8                     140.0       168.0
Agrleultural GDP *s X of Total               X                      48.0        40.0
3. Land Us.
Land Area                                    sq.kl                 248.0       246.0
Perennlal Crops                               '000 ha              181.0       211.0
Annual Crope                                 '000 ha               912.0     1,328.0
4. Area Forested
Lena. Forest                                 *O00 ha                           800.0
Wooded Savanna                               '000 ha                         1,700.0
Bush Savanna                                 '000 ha                        12,000.0
Shrub Savonna and Fal Iow                    '000 ha                        6ô,10.0
Mangrove                                     '000 ha                           260.0
6. output ai
-ce-                                         74-76 Av. l 100       100.0       144.0
Fonio                                            *1000                         165.0
Cassava                                          *                 100.0       120.0
Coffee                                                             100.0        51.0
6. lnouis
lilzero                                       '000 tons             -             1.0
7. Trade (Current Prices)
TôT Exporta (FO8)                            S a                   186.0      6S4.S
of which:
- Agrleultural Producte                    s                       5.4         3.4 a/
- Forest Productt
- FTeh Producte
Total Importe                                S m                   267.0       4S1.7
8. Govrnnt ExgndTturea
Totloeurrent Budget                          S a                   212.0       261.0 /
of which: Agriculture                                              -           1.0
Total Capital Budget                         S                     174.0       121.0
of whlch: Agriculture                      X                      17.0         7.0
V  Oniy coffee reported.
Covernent prohlbite log *nd tTber exporta.
Excludtng externally ftnanced projectes
S Not reported owlng to lack of monltoring of industrTsl catch.



REPUBLIC OF cUI"EA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01   Although vell endowed vith agricul,ural, mineral, forest, vater and
fisheries resources, Guinea's 6 million inhabitants are among the poorest
population segment of the vorld (per capita income of about US$300 per year).
As in many African nations, Guinea's natural resource base has been rapidly
exploited for the short-term gaiîe of extractive industries, vithout appropriate
management of natural resources to permit continued exploitation in the long-
term. here has been little concern for environmental degradation resulting from
exploitive practices. Moreover, even thcl '. there is relatively abundant land
(24 inhabitantslkm2, including urban populauic'n and much less in rural areas),
the groving population (2.82 per year) has resulted in the cutting of forests
for crop land and fuelwood at an accelerating and destructive rate. Recent
exksnsion in private enterprise exploiting forest, fisheries, and local
resources, combined vith rapid population growth (particularly in urban areas
around Conakry), have intensified the risk of degrtdation of forestry, land and
fisheries resources.
1.02   Recent events have increased the sensitivity of the Government and the
international community to the risk of impeded long-term economic growth and
environmental damage because of poor management of forests, land and fisheries.
The distinctive biodiversity of certain parts of Guinea's foreets, the high rate
of deforestation, snd the destruction of the unique ecosystems in neighboring
Liberia by minir.g activities, have focused the Government's attention to better
manage its own resources so that they are exploited in a sustainable manner, and
in that way, conserved. A further concern is safeguarding the source of the
numerous Western Africa rivers which have their headwaters in Guinea. Finally,
althougb rich in fishery resources (perhaps the richest country in Western Africa
in this regard), Guinea has a fish consumption per capita considerably lower than
in neighboring countries. It is obliged to expend scarce foreign exchange on
fish imports. Also, the fisheries sector is contributing very little to GDP
and the Treasury, compared to its potential, due largely to a lack of adequate
scientific knowledge, veak management of fisheries, poor surveillance of foreign
fishing vessels, and an absence of adequate fiscal measures.
1.03    The Goverument first requested IDA's support for the forestry sector in
July 1986. A team from PAO/CP identified and ultimately prepared a forestry
program in 1987, vith the participation of the Forestry Department of the
National Directorate of Forests and Huating (DNFC) vithin the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA). An IDA-financed Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) for US$500,000 vas provided in June 1988 to assist DNFC in
finalizing the preparation of forestry activities.  Also in 1986 (October), IDA
vas approached to participate in a program to reinforce Guinea's management of
fisheries vithin its Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). A program was prepared by
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in 1987 under the auspices



2
of the State Secretariat for Fisherles (SEP). IDA proposed to combine these
project ideas into a single operation to vhich further environmental protection
measures could be added subsequently. A pre-appraisal mission visited Guinea
in October 1988.   IDA is separately financing the development of a full
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) for Guinea, which deals with other enviro»mental
issues than those addressed under the project. A Speclal Project Preparatiun
Facility (SPPF) of abouit US$250,000 has been approved to prepare this plan.
Il. SECTORAL BÂCKGROUND
Economic Settina
2.01    Since  December  1985,  the  Government  of  Guinea  has  undertaken
unprecedented measures to restore internal and external financial balances,
dismantle public and parapublic sector enterprises, and reduce its overall level
of participation in the economy, establishing a liberal aconodic and pricing
regime.  Supported both by the IMF standbys and a Structural hdjustment Program,
the Government institsuted significant measures to (a) reform money and banking,
includirg introducing a new currency, liquidating state-owned banks, and
permitting a managed but market-determined exchange rate to emerge; (b)
liberalize prices and trade, remove a burdensome systen of official pricing,
establish a modest and uniform tariff regime, mad reduce turnover tax burden;
(c) reform tbe civil service by reducing the number of civil servants and
«.tionalizing the mandate of the public sector; and (d) establish a modern legal
framework for investment, mining, public procurement, forestry, environmental
protection and fisheries, among others. As a result, the economy grew at about
62 in 1987 and 52 in 1988.   Some problems have been more persistent that
originally thought. For example, public receipts have not grown in tandem with
the economy, owing to poor collection efforts. Public spending has not been
controlled, which has led to chronic budget deficits and growing public debt.
There remains latent distrust of the public sector which has continued to show
high involvement and interest in the business coimumity through regulation and
licensing of economic activity, sometimes for private gain. Rovever, prospects
for the economy call for about 42 sustainable growth, lover inflation, a stable
currency, and an increas-' debt service capacity.
The Agricultural Sector
2.02    The rural  sector,  including agriculture,  livestock,  fisheries and
forestry, accounted for almost 502 of GNP in 1987, and provided employment for
about 802 of the population. The forestry subsector contributed about 62 to
rural sector GDP, while the fisheries share vas a mere 0.04Z, well below
potential. Despite the potential offered by Guinea's diverse and fertile natural
resources, agricultural performance has been disappointing for the past 25 years.
Agricultural comiodities, which ac^ounted for the bulk of Guinea's exports in
1958, represent nov less than 32 of the value of exports. Food imports have
increased from 52 to 20Z of total importe.
2.03    The Government's reform program has also touched major parts of the
agricultural sector. Emphasis has been placed on developing the smallholder
sector as the major instrument of growth, which is in contrast with the former
emphasis on state farms and parastatal production.   To support smallholder



3
agriculture, the Government has begun reforming and strengthening support
services at the national level (research, extension, livestock services, credit),
removed all official prices for domestic production,  and encouraged open
marketing by the private sector.  The results of these efforts are becoming
evideit in increased production, although an adequate statistical analysis of
the cause for this growth is not presently possible. Despite these reforms, the
Government has cmtinuied its past practices of supporting area development
schemes and has entered into mixed-ownership enterprises for the production of
export crops (cotton, oil palm, rubber). Considering the rapid evolution of the
agricultural sector since 1385, it is not surprising that contradictions in
policy and strategy are beginning to appear. The Government has begun to address
this problem by launching a review of its strategy for the sector and of the
agricultural program, with the support ef Caisse Centrale de Coopération
Economique (CCCE), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and IDA.  A
continued decline in emphasis on area development projects and parastatal .ead
investment is ey-ected, replaced by increasingly strong national agricultural
services combined with support for private and cooperative investment in
agriculture, agrictiltural marketing and processing.
Forestry
2.04   Forest Cover.  Guinea has a land area of 245,000 km2 vith four distinct
ecologicallclimatic zones.  Forest cover during the past 15 years is estimated
to have decreaset between 112 and 232 in various regions of the country, vith
a resultant increase in soil erosion. Total dense forest cover is nov estimate'-
at about 14.8 million ha CMap. No. 21653), of which official forest reservec
comprise a little more than 1 million hectares. There are or.ly about 18,000 ha
of forest plantations. The twe largest reserves, Diecke and Ziama, declaret
forest reserves in 1932 because of their role as streamflov regulators, cover
about 90,000 ha ant 59,000 ha, respectively.  Zlama is bounded on the southeast
by additional forest reserves of about 23,000 hectares. Several hundred thousand
hectares of dry forests in Upper Guinea have to date been protected f'rom
encroachment by the presence of disease (onchocerciasis).
2.05    Guinde Maritime covers 3.6 million ha and has the highest rainfall of the
four regions and large areas of mangrove, bush savanna, oil palm, cocoa, and
fruit plantations. It conitains, nominally, about 95,000 ha of forest reserves.
Moyenne Guinée, vhere the Fouta Djallon is located, includes the couatry's laost
densely populated zones and conttins a mixture of dry forest (Map No. 21599),
mainly on the hillsides, tree and bush savanna, and grasslands.  About 316,000
ha are considered to be forest reserves although these areas tend to be impacted
by population pressure.  Haute Guinde has the longest dry season and lowest
rainfall of the four regions and covers 9.7 million ha, of which about 330,000
ha are forest reserves where tree savanna predominates within areas of dry sparse
foreset. Guinde Forestière, with an area of 4.9 million ha, contains reserves
of about 310,000 hectares vith a yield potential of about 1 m3 of wood per year.
Its high altitude and long rainy season prcduce dense tropical forests and
numerous species suitable for manufacturing.
2.06    The strongest pressure on the forests arises mainly from encroachment on
forest land for agriculture and cattle grazing. Deforestation is aggravated by
the practice of slash-and-burn shifting cultivation and bush firing, combined
vith fallow periods too short to permit natural regeneration of the vegetation.



4
As elsewhere in Africa, these trends are symptoms of population growth combined
vith a lack of secure land rights under traditional practices of land usage.
These factors, coupled vith drought in certain areas, have profoundly modified
the forest cover. Where dense forest and woodland once predominated in much of
Guinea, forest cover nov comprises 802 tree savanna (grasslands with clumps of
trees, usually secondary growth). Uncontrolled logging has also taken its toll,
mainly in the dense forest of Guinée Forestière where shipment of timber to
neighboring Côte d'Ivoire and Liberia for re-export has occurred.   The dry
forests of Haute Guinde are located along the Tinkisso, Bunie and other rivers
which flow into Niger. Although the area is infected vith riverblindness, an
eradication program nov under way could open it to settlement in the medium-
term, despite the fact that its soils are generally shallow, erosion-prone, and
unsuited to permanent agriculture.   While there is no general problem of
overexploitation for fuelwood consumption, evidence suggests that the risk exists
in the vicinity of certain large urban areas, notably Conakry and Kankan.
2.07    For many years Guinea's forestry services suffered from insufficient
operating budgets, and until recently, vere overstaffed vith inadequately trained
personnel who vere poorly paid and vorked under difficult conditions. Office
accommodation for DNFC is still totally inadequate. DNFC is isolated due to
unreliable telephone services and no means of transport.   Similarly, at the
prefectoral level, staff do not have the facilities vith which to work. The
forestry program is underfinanced, receiving only 8.52 of the rural development
budget and 2Z of the total budget for 1987-89. Of the 14 projects in DNFC's
current program, eight are under implementation, four of which began in 1987,
and two in 1988. The rest have not been formulated sufficiently to draw donor
attention. Moyenne Guinée receives the lion's share of investment funds, while
the three other regions receive only 7.5Z of total allocation. Major donors
nov involved in the forestry program include the Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG), USAID, the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (FAC), and the Islamic
Development Bank (IDB). However, most of these efforts operate in isolation,
as adjuncts to DNFC, rather than being integral parts of the department. The
Project vould address the basic institutional veakness of DNFC and vould have
a catalytic effect in making other projects more effective.
2.08   Legislation.    Existing  forestry,  vildlife  protection  and hunting
legislation dates from about 1935, and is outmoded in areas of infractions,
fines, and recognition of limits of government reserves, among others. The code
has been revised recently by DNFP  vith assistance from FAO.   The new forestry
code will permit the utilization of certain forestry areas for exoloitation and
reforestation by local communities.  Hovever, the actual enforcement of the
Code's provisions vill continue to be a problem until the Forestry Department
evolves as an institution; local people are nov included in the process (para
2.09). The new code vould also update fiscal provisions associated vith forest
management and utilization, shich would improve the Government's overall cash
flow (para 5.07). The major shortcoming of the new code appears to be in the
way in which forest land rights are being defined.  This is related to the
general problem of land rights nov facing the country.
2.09   Landholding Structure. Customary landholding rights in Guinea are quite
similar 6o those encountered in neighboring countries.  These rights are held
by large families, often vith a clear demarcation of the rights of nuclear
families, which are transmitted from father to son. Official texts dating to



5
the 19609 stipulate that all lands belong to the State. These texte have been
confirmed by the new Administration.   However, in most rural areas, in the
absence of a monetarized land market and of the GovernmentIs capacity to enforce
its claims on the land, customary land rights are not challenged. MURA bas
cormissioned the drafting of a new land lav which is based on the recognition
of customary rights aud opens the way toward private property. Hovever. shortly
before the action vas taken, the Ministry of Urbanism had produced an alternative
draft land law which totally ignored customary rights and reaffirmed full land
ownership by the State. The proposals of the Ministry of Urbanism have been
challenged by other ministries, but a final decision on the principles to
underlay future land rights in Guinea has not yet been made. This conflict will
clearly need to b* resolved in order to deal vith lane 'ssues, particularly in
urban areas. In r4ri' areas, a better appreciation oi ,nd rights also appears
necessary to cOMa -emnt protection of forestu.  When farmers do not have security
in land rights tb«y &ee less likely -o respect the rights of the State, inherent
in forest reserver   Since the principal issue revolves around competing land
rights in the forest zone, it is necessary to launch an effort to define the
rights of farmers, forest dwellers, settlers, loggers, and the Government.
2.10    Industry and Markets.   The wood industry in Guinea is dominated by
the harvesting of firewood, and by small scale mills ard artisanal pit-sawyers
for the production of sawn wood. Reliable data on the structure and output of
forest industry are scarce, and studies of the situation often give contradictory
findings.  It appears that firewood consumption averages about 8 million m3 per
year. There vere several failed attempts to install a vood processing industry,
including a modern saumill and a rolling mill for plywood production, under
parastatal management. Little remains of those investments. Since the beginning
of the Second Republic in 1984, there has been some new investment in wood
industries, as small local sawmilling facilities have sprung up. Hovever, at
present the artisanal industry satisfies demand for wood relatively vell. Annual
demand for sawn wood is estimated at about 97,000 m3, of which local industry
satisfies about all of the rural demand and about 902 of Conakry's estimated
demand of 20,000 m3. Imports of sawn vood and plywood meet the rest of the
Conakry demand. Vith population growth and urbanization, demand for sawn wood
is expected to grow to about 120.000 m3, of which the demand in Conakry is
expected to be 40,000 m3. Vithout increased domestic production, imports of sawn
wood are expected to increase from the present level of 2,000 m3 per year to
about 20,000 m3.  The present use of forests is inefficient and damaging to
forestry resources.   Pit-saving yields are low compared vith even modest
industrial-scale saving, which means that more logs are required to satisfy
managed forests that can be ceded on concession. The Government currently bans
all exports of logs, although some clandestine activity may occur in the forest
zone. This, however, does not generate supplies for local markets. Improved
management of the remaining forest resources vill be critical for the industry
to develop.
2.11    The report, Guinea: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (No. 6137-
GUI, November 1986) estimates that annual availability of fuelwood frm natural
growth averages about 32 million m3/year, of which accessible fuelwood production
is about 14 million m3lyear.  Firewood and charroal account for over 98g  of
household energy consumption, the former being the most important source of
energy consumption in rural households, and the latter being used mostly in urban
housAholds, essentially in Conakry. Fuelwood consumption has been estimated at



6
7.45 million m3 for 1984. Consumption for 1990 and 1995, based on rural and
urban per capita household consumption and population distribution data, is
estimated at 8.6 million m3 and 9.9 million m3, respectively. Thus, there does
not appear to be a fuelwood criais in Guinea. Hovever, the impact of growth in
demand is expected to fall on localized stocks in ecologically sensitive areas
(e.g., mangrove swamps and the Fouta Djallon) vhich makes management of this
resource a critical priority. Actions for this are being studied.
2.12    Policies and Stratepy.  In recognition of the rapid decline in forestry
resources, the Government has aoopted a policy of protection, management and
development of production, largely to meet long-term local demand for wood
products used in manufacturing, construction and as domestic energy.   The
strategy, supported hy IDA under the Project, comprisess   (a) maintaining a
permanent inventory of forestry resources; (b) provisional monitoring of demand
for forestry sector products; (c) introducing conservation and development
actions in existing natural forests; (d) increasing, where feasible, forest
resources through planting5 (e) reducing vaste through better use and management
of forest products; and (f) improving institutions and local capacity to
implement forest development strategies. This approach should help bring local
supply/demand balances into equilibrium and spur local interests to engage in
forestry and related environmental protection plans.
2.13    Institutions.  Formerly the Directorate of Vater and Forests, the newly
reorganized DNFC, responsible for forestry management, reports directly to the
Minister of Agriculture and Animal Resources through the General Secretary. It
comprises an Administrative Section, a Planning and Coordination Unit, and four
divisions:
(a) a Division for Wildlife, Forest Protection, and Bushfire
Control, encompassing hunting reserves protection,
national and city parks, and protection of the
environment;
(b) a Forest Management Division responsible for forestry
management and master plans, classification, and
reforestation;
(c) a Rural Forestry Division providing services for
forestry   extension,   fuelwood   production,   soil
conservation, and village plantations; and
(d) an Economics and Legislation Division responsible for
economic analysis, forest legislation, and production
control.
2.14    Each prefecture has its own Forestry Department,  administratively
controlled by the Prefect but technically managed and guided by DNFC. Most
prefecture-level forestry departments are poorly equipped and are not
operational. To execute viable forestry programs and decentralize operations,
it will be necessary to improve the management and technical capacity of the
prefectural Forestry Departments. In two cases, bilateral donors are developing



7
actions and training local staff in forestry activities (replanting, forest
protection, administration) with an outreach orientation. This experience would
guide future work in this area.
Fisheries
2.15    Guinea's continental plateau is the largest in Africa, extending, in
some areas, more than 80 miles from the coast, with an important upwelling in
the North. The resources of the 200-mile EEZ are believed to have significant
revenue potential (Map No 21598). lWhile figures vary widely due to lack of
reliable scientific data, the Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY) in the EEZ for
species other than tuna and cuttlefish is estimated to have fallen below 30,000
tons annually from a high of 190,000 t in the mid-1960s.   There are strong
indications that the depletion of stocks is jeopardizing the future of this once
high potential resource. In contrast, Guinea's artisanal waters, which extend
up to 15 miles from shore, vere reported in 1980 to have a MSY of 80,000 t/year.
Fresh vater fishing yields about 2,000 t/year, although the potential is
estimated to be much higher from the rich river systems of Guinde Forestière,
Moyenne Guinde and Haute Guinée.
2.16    Poor management of fisheries resources has led to fundamental problems
in the  future  development  of  the  subsector.    There  is  at  present  no
scientifically based resource allocation system and little moritoring and
control of fishing. The foreign vessel licensing system has been focused on
generating hard currency for the Government, with no attention paid to matching
fishery resource availability with actual harvesting.   The result has been
significant  overfishing  in  the  industrial  zone.        However,  the  weak
administration of licenses has not generated the expected royalty income. The
scarcity of fish compels foreign vessels to operate in unauthorized areas where
catch rates are generally higher, to the detriment of the artisanal local
fishery. In addition, the discarding of lower-priced fish is reportedly in the
50-80Z range.   The most important factors explaining the lack of adequate
management include: (a) the dearth of knowledge of fisheries resources and
levels of sustainable exploitation; (b) the absence of a rational long-term
policy for fisheries management and development; (c) the inadequate control and
government surveillance of foreign and local fleets; (d) the inefficient
institutions, principally SEP; (e) the ineffective policies to support the
artisanal subsector; and (f) the inadequate land-based infrastructure and
services for landing and transporting fish.
2.17   An effective monitoring, control and surveillance (MCS) system would be
the cornerstone of successful fisheries resource management in Guinea. However,
SEP's operations has suffered from a lack of well trained and well paid staff.
It has only one inspector on its staff, whereas a core of ten trained inspectors
is required for monitoring and surveillance work.   Its present corps of 35
observers is responsible for compiling data from shipboard catch samples and
fishing vessel logbooks, and measuring fishing effort characteristics. Until
recently, the Government's policy required that fishing vessel captains pay the
salaries of government observers. Consequently, observers have been forced to
work as deck-hands, without the freedom, equipment or incentives to carry out
their scientific and observation functions. The effectiveness of the present
MCS is further constrained by the limited resources available for hardware and
by running costs for air and sea surveillance.



8
2.18    Implementation of the Government's resource management strategy (para
2.28) has to date been limited to applied research on marine life within the
artisanal zone. Since 1985, supported by funds from the European Community and
the French Government via ORSTOM, the Fisheries Research Laboratory at Boussoura
has undertaken seven scientific expeditions in artisanal waters. The current
program at Boussoura is directed by ORSTOM and consista of marine research and
socioeconomic studies. A number of multilateral and bilateral donors and non
governmental organization (NGOs) are providing support for art.&'sanal fishing
activities along the coast. The Government's involvement in high seas fishing
has been to sponsor investment in a domestic fishing fleet (para 2.26). SEP has
received support in the form of technicai assistance, operating funds, and staff
training from Canada (CIDA) for several years. A new CIDA-financed project is
supporting the revision of the Fisheries. Code and the training of key SEP
personnel, many of whom will be directly engaged in SEP operations.
2.19    Legislation  and  Enforcement.    The  Fisheries  Code  and  Texts  of
Application, enacted in 1985, is a comprehensive document detailing the rights
and obligations of Guinea and of the vessels, both national and foreign,
exploiting fishery resources vithin the EEZ.   SEP has recently proposed to
increase the penalty provisions of the Code as a means of deterring violations
vithin the EEZ. The Code provides for the management and control of indigenous
fish stocks based on international practices and rational objectives.   It
includes investment regulations. Additional pressing amendments to the Code are
required, however, to ensure resource conservation and to facilitate
surveillance. CIDA and the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans have
provided technical assistance in this area. Guinea has reached agreement vith
Guinea Bissau regarding demarcation of their common maritime boundary. Still
unresolved is the maritime boundary between Guinea and Sierra Leone.   The
critical factor, however, in addition to the quality of the Fisheries Code, is
its application, which is addressed under the Project.
2.20   A sub-regional, multi-national Commission of Fisheries Ministries vas
established in 1985, headquartered in Dakar, vith a charter membership
comprising Mauritania, Cape Vert, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau and Senegal. Guinea
ratified the convention in September 1987. The Codmissionts objective is the
long-term coordination and standardization of fishery exploitation regulations
by its member States. To date the Commission has established guidelines for hot
pursuit across national maritime limits, adopted a regional vessel registry, and
defined the status and role of observers and the obligations of foreign
shipmasters toward observers. Guinea's active participation in the Commission
and in its technical vorking groups is interpreted as a long-term commitment to
regional cooperation and consultation on fisheries matters.
2.21   Industry, Markets and Fiscal Systema.   There is a strong international
demand for Guinea's industrial fisheries resources, for which the Government is
not adequately compensated. Sales of industrial licenses are based nominally
on international fish prices which average about US$4001t, including premiums
for more desirable species.   Over 60Z of licensing arrangements fall under
bilateral agreements between the Government of Guinea and foreign governments
or EEC. Where bilateral agreements do not exist, licenses are issued through
"consignment companiesu acting as intermediaries between the Government and
foreign fishing vessel captains.



9
2.22    Since 1983 the Government has negotiated three-yeor agreements with UEC.
Recently these agreements have yielded about US83.5 million per y.ar to the
Treasury ln lieu of payments from shipowners, in addition to grants for
technical assistance and scientific research. Captains are also expected to pay
directly to Guinea an additional US$1.9 million, which may be paid ln kind.
Theoretically, if the present Fisheries Code vere adequately applied, licenaina
of other fishing ships licensed through the consignment agents should yield
about US$4.2 million, ln cash and in kind.   Flsh paid in lieu of cash is
marketed through a parastatal marketing company, the Office for the Protection
of Industrial Fisheries (OPPI). Of a total of about US$9.7 million, however,
only the direct payments from ESC regularly reach the Treasury.   Fish sold
through OPPI is sold at low prices. OPPI'u =anagement is inefficient and leade
to exorbitant costs and corruption, so that there is no value to the Treasury
of payments in kind. The Government is attempting to remedy this situation by
requiring that all payments be made in cash,  and is phasing out OPPI's
commercial activities (para 2.25).   The Government al8o expects to negotiate
a new arrangement with EEC in mid-1989, which vould change the basis of
calculating and administering the payments, with the effect of raising revenues.
The Government has not renewed any f ishing licenses for commercial f ishing boats
other than those from EEC in 1989.
2.23     Consumption  of fish in Guinea  averages  about 8.2 kglperson/year
compared with 18 to 28 kg consumed in neighboring countries. While figures vary
widely, Guinea's consumption ln 1986 vas estimated at 39,000 t, made up as
follows: 21,000 t from artisanal fishing; about 14,000 t imported to Conakry
f-rom foreign industrial trawlers  (7,500 t from the Soviet fishing fleet,
purchased with foreign exchange, and 6,500 t mpayment in kind in part payment
for license fees); 2,000 t imported from neighboring countries; and 2,OCO t
canned fish importe.  Losses during landing, handling, transportation, and
marketing  are  estimated  at  about  2,000  tlyear,  attributed  to  weak
infrastructure.  If Guinea is to meet its goal of increasing consumption, a
number of actions vill be requireds (a) establishing adequate infrastructure,
including port facilities for landing and transportation for both industrial
and artisanal fishing; (b) maintaining a commercial environment that encourages
private sector initiatives; and (c) establishing a leasingisales system for the
local private sector and joint venture companies to acquire fishing vessels.
2.24    To meet these objectives some actions have been planned, notably: (a) a
rural infrastructure project and a port rehabilitation project nov under
preparation to assist in improving fish landing and transportation constraints;
(b) a policy of divesting government commercial and production activities to the
private sector; and (c) proposals for salesJlesse arrangements for fishing
vessels to be delivered to OPPI over the next 12 months. The artisanal sector's
groving share of the local market (21,000 t in 1986; 29,000 t in 1987 and 35,000
t in 1988) bodes vell for the future. Vith a potential maximum sustainable
yield of about 56,000 tlyear vithin the 15-mile fishing zone, there is scope for
expansion of the artisanal sector.
2.25    The official marketing of artisanal and industrial catches has to date
been handled by OPPI, a parastatal arm of SEP.   OPPI distributes fish at
subsidizet  official prices to civil service employees, the armed services,
hospitals, schools, inland prefectures, mining companies and private traders.
Through this means, the Government has attemptet to enforce fixed prices for ail



10
f ish sold on the urban market.   In response, the artlsqnal sector found a
parallel market, leaving to OPPI the distribution of industrial fish delivered
in lieu of license fees. This has, however, declined in importance. Artisanal
fishermen sell on the unofficial market at two to three times the official
price, as do private traders through whom the Government channels some of its
industrial fish purchases. Outside the capital, distribution is hampered by the
poor condition of rural infrastrtucture. While not central to the objective of
the Project, it vould be desirable that an auction system be established for
wholesale distribution of industrial fish.   SEP's work plans indicate that
OPPI's commercial activities are to be phased out and that it vill become a
business advisory board to assist in the expansion of the private fisiieries
sector.
2.26    A French/Guinean joint venture, "Nouvelle SOGUIPECHE", began operating
in January 1989 with one trawler and vas intended to operate as a private sector
profit-making entity. Two additional trawlers vill be added to the fleet in
1989. The company anticipates a first year total catch of 7,500 t in 1989, and
10,000 t thereafter (40Z for local consumption and 60Z for export to Europe).
CCCE is financing the construction of a fish processing and refrigeration
facility for the use of SOGUIPECHE at Conakry Port. Three 31 m trawlers with
freezing capacity, and twenty 14 m trawlers have been ordered from Brazil vith
funds provided by the Treasury. Another seven 14 m trawlers have been ordered
from Spain under contract with OPPI.  Vith the exception of the SOGUIPECHE
arrangements, no adequate economio and financial analyses seem to have been made
of the viability of the trawler pt :chases. Once orders are placed, hovever, the
Government has to develop a plan to use the boats to best advantage. This vould
be discussed as part of the ongoing Bank dialogue vith the Government.
2.27    Institutions.  The Secretariat of State for Fisheries 'SEP), which is a
sub-ministry vithin MARA, is entrusted vith the management of fisheries
resources, implemented through the National Directorate of Fisheries and
Aquaculture (DNPA).  Its primary role is to establish sectoral policies and
priorities, and to plan and develop fishery resources. An Administrative and
Financial Affairs Division is directly responsible to SEP. Vithin DNPA, two
divisions, each supervising four sections, are responsible for day-to-day
operations of fisheries management.   The Studies and Cooperation Division
comprises  four sections:   Management,  Cooperation,  Judicial Affairs,  and
Surveillance and Control. DNPA has also four sections: Socioeconomy, Fisheries
and Aquaculture, M-tisanal Fisheries, and Industrial Fisheries and Fresh Mater
Fisheries.  The sections responsible for executing the Project includes
(a) the Management Section charged vith promoting the
development  of   fisheries   resources;   elaborating
management plans and following their execution; and
defining license allocation procedures and conditions
of access and exploitation of fisheries resources;
(b) the Cooperation Section which prepares and monitors
cooperative programs and evaluates their impact;
maintains contact with foreign institutions; and
evaluates applications of recommendations of bilateral,
multilateral, sub-regional and regional institutions;



il
(c) the Judicial Affairs Section which is responsible for
issuance of, and amendments to the Fisheries Code-
participates in Lnternational fisheries negotiations and
agreements; and ensures consistency of texts relating
to fisheries activities produced by other ministries;
and
(d) the Monitoring and Surveillance Section which is
responsible  for  inspection  and  compliance  with
regulations; coordination of inspection and naval
personnel; and the monitoring of environmental pollution
caused by fisheries operations.
Research is the responsibility of the Fisheries Research Laboratory at
Boussoura. All research activities are under the authority of the Ministry of
Education. SEP is supported in its surveillance activities by the Navy and the
Ministry of Transportation through the involvement of the Merchant Marine.  The
Ministry of Justice and the Miuistry of Foreign Affairs are involved in
upholding  the  law  and  international  agreements,   respectively.          An
interministerial committee, composed of representatives of the Ministries of
Transport and National Defense, and chaired by the Secretary of State for
Fisheries, vas created in 1987, but is inactive and will remain 80 until a
viable protection and surveillance program is established.
2.28   Policies and Strategy.   The Government's current objectives in the
fisheries sector are to promote seafood self-sufficiency, create employment in
the sector, establish a favorable economic environnent for the development of
local fishing capacity, and encourage private investment in the sector.  To
reach these objectives, the strategy adopted by the Government, to be supported
by IDA, aias ats (a) developing Guinean management capacity for the rational
exploitation of marine resources; (b) augmenting fish producticon for local
consumption and export; and (c) restructuring SEP to increase its efficiency and
performance (para 4.07). The Government has proposed an action plan for applied
research; monitoring, control and surveillance of offshore fishing fleet; and
incentives for private sector investment in fishing production, treatment and
marketing, both industrial and artisanal.
Environment
2.29    Guinea is facing a number of environmental issues.   A high rate of
population increase (about 2.82 per year), much of which in urban areas, is
leading to degradation of the urban environment and parts of the rural
environment vith easy access to towns. Watershed degradation has been observed
in the Fouta Djallon, considered to be the vater tover of Western Africa, due
to over-cultivation and the harvesting of fuelwood. Mining and hydro-electric
projects generally occur vithout preparatory environmental impact assessments
or protection and rehabilitation plans. Other environmental risks nov appear
evident, such as the potential damage to river valleys because of population
influx folloving the eradication of riverblindness. Guinea does not have any
program for identifying and protecting areas of value for their biodiversity,
although one of these, Kount Nimba (near the border of Côte d'Ivoire and
Liberia) has attracted vorldwide attention and has been designated as a Vorld



12
Heritage Blosphere Reserve.   Mount Nimba also contains high-grade iron ore
deposits which are potentially exploitable, although economic and financial
analyses have yet to be completed.  These analyses and a full environmental
impact study are expected to be undertaken in 1989 before decisions to proceed
with development are made. Also of concern are the Tristao -lands with their
unique mangrove swamp and vildlife reserves.
2.30    Guinean institutions do not appear to be equipped to undertake the
complex management task demanded by a multi-faceted environmental protection
program. There is no clear delineation of responsibilities between ministries
and agencies for vital environmental concerns, such as (a) management of natural
forests and wildlîfe reserves; (b) monitoring of mining, hydropover, soil and
water conservation, and coastal protection; and (c) establishment of a reliable
national data collection and management system.   The legal framework for
environmental protection in Guinea is not fully adequate in assigning
responsibilities and norms to ensure environmentally sound practices. The Code
on the Protection and Development of the Environment (May 1987), which outlines
government policies regarding the utilization and protection of natural
resources, renevable or othervise, and all environmental issues, covers a broad
range of topics and incorporates the responsibilities of many ministries.
However, it needs to be reviewed in the context of the codes of other ministries
to ensure that strategy documents are coordinated into a rational, integrated
protection program.    Finally,  there is a dearth of viable data on the
environment, in such areas as hydrology, meteorology, pedology, cartography,
oceanography, utilization of 3oils, and the composition of flora and fauna.
:Xost available data require updating.   There is no central repository of
environmental data or coordination of aerial surveys and other remote sensing
information. Existing data risk destruction for vant of appropriate storage.
Bach ministerial department takes decisions and commissions studies based on
survey needs in ite particular area of responsibility, leading to duplication
of effort and expense.
2.31    The Government  is becoming aware of these issues.   Its economic
development strategy places high priority on efforts toward soil protection and
conservation of an appropriate balance of the natural ecosystems. To execute
its strategy, the Government has identified the need for:  (a) strengthening
national scientific and technical capacity to provide the required knowledge for
rational utilization of the natural ecosystems; (b) preserving areas of natural
forest essential to the protection of the biosphere; (c) preparing national
environmental policies; (d) defining a national conservation and natural
resource strategy; and (e) preparing mape and cartographic images of natural
resources. Since 1986, the Government has been preparing both a Tropical Forest
Action Plan and the Project which would make the priority elemente of this plan
operational. This has not, however, covered the breath of issues facing the
environment.   To begin addressing the broader issues,  the Government is
embarking on the formulation of an Environmental Action Plan (RAP), financed in
part by the SPPF recently awarded by IDA. It is expected that a provisional
plan might be available by April 1990.
IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience
2.32   IDA's assistance in the Guinean rural sector has emphasized raising
emallholder incomes while creating durable institutions in both the public and



L3
private sectors. At the policy level, IDA has supported economic and financial
reforms aimed at providing incentives to agricultural production. liberalizing
internal and external trade, freeing producer prices to the determination of
market forces, and enhancing the role of the private sector. Since February
1986, this strategy has been supported through the Structural Adjustment Credit
(Gr. 1659-GUI) and the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara Africa (Cr. AIII-GUI).
At the project level, IDA bas emphasized improvements of agricultural services
for smallholders, each with strong elements of institution building and a focus
on outreach.
2.33    IDA has participated in the financing of seven agricult ral projects, of
which two have been completed and one cancelled. The Daboyas Pineapple Project
vas completed In 1981 to satisfactory technical standards, but has experienced
financing,  input  supply,  and marketing problems  since  completion.    The
Goverument is nov seeking to involve private partners. The Rice Development
Project (Cr. 952-GUI, September 1979) promoted rice development in the Forest
Region and its successful results gave rise to the Agricultural Project at
Guéckédou (PAG) which is progressing satisfactorily. The Livestock Development
Project (Cr. 1063-GUI, September 1980) vas cancelled in September 1983 due to
the Government's failure to take measures to remove the forced marketing of
cattle and to offer adequate incentives to herdsmen for sale of their cattle.
Most of the components of this project vere subsequently included in the
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1752-GUI, August 1986), after the
change of Government in April 1984. Although the project started slovly due to
difficulties in implementing a staff redundancy program, it is nov progressing
satisfactorily. An Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 1636-GUI, November 1985)
vas designed to improve MARA's capability in planning, policy formulation, and
project analysis; it is also progressing in a satisfactory manner. A National
Seeds Project (Cr. 1864-GUI, December 1987), in an early phase of
implementation, aims at improved adapted seed varieties, establishing
strategically located seed conditioning centers, quality control facilities,
training, and organizational support. An Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (Cr. 1955-GU, September 1988), begun on a pilot basis vith PPF
financing, is nov underway.
III. THE PROJECT
A.     Project Rationale and Objectives
3.01   Rationale. Guinea's overall economic grovth continues to depend heavily
on agriculture. The Government's considerable progress in creating a favorable
economic environment Sas increased the demand on forestry output, with
concomitant environmental pressures. Also, because forestry is still the main
source of fuel in Guinea and wood supplies are diminishing relative to demand,
a forestry protection and management program has been formulated and is taking
root to develop institutions which can sustain forestry production in the long-
term.   Moreover,  forestry management and protection are key elements  in
environmental protection, which increasingly need to be addressed.  Guinea's
higih potential f Lsheries resources are being exploited, but vith little or no
benefit being derived by Guinea's economy, treasury, or food supply. Evidence
points to an overexploitation of the industrial fisheries zone, and while
fisheries legislation is generally adequate, protection measures are veak.



14
Although not providing direct financing, the Project will strengthen several
institutions and build the experience needed to execute the Environmental Action
Plan nov under preparation. Through the Project IDA will play a catalytic role
in enabling the Government to coordinate the activities of the many donors
involved in the forestry and fisheries sectors and in identifying environmental
issues.
3.02   Objectives.  The priority objective of the Project will be to assist
the Government in establishing operational institutions and systems for managing
forestry and fisheries resources through management support and training. First,
work plans will be prepared for forestry protection and management with a view
to (a) reducing deterioration and regenerating the humid and dry forests; (b)
increasing wood product self-sufficiency; (c) creating employment in forest
industries; and (d) increasing government revenues from commercial use of
forests. To protect thb :iumid forests from er.croachment, an inventory of land
rights will be undertaken, as a pilot operation. Second, an integrated fisheries
management  system will be  introduced,  aimed at  (a) protecting fisheries
resources; (b) strengthening and implementing transparent licensing procedures
for industrial f isheries: (c) maintaining a sustainable yield; and (d) increasing
government revenues.
B.      Project Description
3.03    The Project will comprise three major components: the protection and
management of the natural forests (humid and dry), a pilot operation aimed at
registering land rights in the humid forest, and the management of off shore
fisheries.
1. Natural Forest Management
(a) Institutional Support.   The Project vill strengthen forestry
institutions, including DNFC headquarters In Conakry and Forestry
Departments in selected prefectures, through technical assistance
to DNFC in forest management, formal professional training, and the
retraining of about 80 forestry graduates.
(b) Humid Forest Protection, Management,  and Silviculture.   This
element of the Project will provide protection, management and
silviculture for the 150,000 ha for the gazetted forest of Diecke
and Ziama in the Forest Region, including demarcation, a management
plan, guards, several roads, stand improvement, and reforestation.
(c) Dry Forest Management. This component will include demarcation,
gazetting, protection and management of about 160,000 ha of dry
forest in Upper Guinea.



1S
2. Land Rigbts Pilot ODeration
To support the forest management components, the Project vould include
a pilot operation aimed at registering land rights on the borders of
the project's humid forest reserves.
3. ManaRement of Offshore Fisheries
<a) Inatitutional Suipport. The Project vill strengthen the legislative
framevork and implementation capacity of SEP includinga (i)
development  of  integrated  resource  management  plans;  Cii)
determination of access to the fishing zone and conditions for
harvesting and processing catches; (iii) limitation of catch levels
to ensure maintenance of stock for future exploitatioe; and (iv)
negotiation of bilateral agreements.
(b) Surveillance. This action vill alm at implementing a coordinated
program to monitor compliance vith regulatory license conditions
through air and sea surveillance of ships fishlng lu the EEZ,
supported by periodic on-board inspections and a land-sea-air
coMmunications system.
(c) Research. Under the Project, a program of at-sea and laboratory
observations vill be carried out to (i) determine and disseminate
information on biomasu characteristics and recommuded safe
harvesting levels; (ii) compile, analyze, and store scientific
data and develop inputs for management plans, regulations and
policies; and (iii) design and evaluate the vork of observers and
assist in program design training.
C. Detailed Features
3.04      The Project vill be implemented over four years (1990-93) folloving
details given in the vorking papers.
1. Forest ManaRement
(a) Institutional Support (Vorking Paper No. 1)
3.05    The Project vill provide institutional support to forestry institutions
at two levels: DNFC headquarters in Conakry and the Forestry Departmsnts in f ive
prefectures in the forest zone. The adoption of necessary decrees establishing
the new structures of DNFC, the Forestry Departmonts, amd the Forestry Center
at Seredou (para 3.08) vill be a condition of disbursemet against the forestry
cozmponent. At headquarters, actions vill include logistical support, improved
vorking and office facilities, sad three long-term consultants to help DNFC
establish good sectoral management. A senior forester vill assist the Director
General in redesigning DFNC's vork plans and lu executing the Project. A forest
financial management and accounting expert vill assist the Director General in
improving  fiuancial management within  the  Department and advise  on  the
application of fiscal arrangements for the sector (para 3.12).  The third
consultant, a forester, vill vork vith prefecture staff in the forest zone to



16
develop specific action plans (para 3.06).   Short-term consultants vill be
provided in areas of forestry fiscal matters and specialized areas of forestry
management. Operating funds vill al8o be provided. Signature of contracts for
technical assistance vill be a condition of disbursement against the forestry
component.
3.06    The Forestry Departments in five prefectures (Lola, Macenta, Nzerekore,
Bela and Yomou) covering the forest zone, vill be given operational support to
develop specific prefecture vork programs (e.g., social forestry, protection of
small forest reserves in ecologically sensitive areas, public bush fire control,
and management of local artisanal felling).  In addition to technical advice
from DNFC (para 3. 05), the Forestry Departments vill be supported by the senior
foresters lccated in Seredou (para 3.08). Vehicles, equipment and some operating
costs vill be provided. Training of prefectures' staff vill be provided in
association vith the humid forest protection component (para 3.13).
3.07    Formal retraining vill be extended for about 80 graduate foresters or
agronomists who hold jobs in DNFC and prefectoral forestry departments. Courses
vill be of about eight months duration at the Forestry Faculty at Faranah and
vill include field vork. A total of four sessions are envisaged, each retraining
about 20 graduates.   Intervals betveen training sessions vill permit the
organization of short sessions to respond to specific training needs. Three
advanced overseas training fellowships have been provided by FAC for Forestry
Faculty personnel, two of vhom are about to return to Guinea and have committed
themselves to teaching at the Paculty upon their return. Mine study tours of
one month each in other African countries vould be offered as training to
technical staff in appropriate project implementation techniques. The Forestry
Faculty vlll be staffed vith two recruited instructors for a total of eight man-
years. Vehicles, equipment, house refurnishing, and incremental operating costs
vill be provided under the Project. The Project vill also provide logistical
support for the Regional Ministry's forestry staff as they become operational.
(b) Humid Forest Protection, Management and Silviculture
(Working Paper No. 2.)
Protection
3.08    To support forest protection, management and silviculture iu the forest
zone, the Project vill provide the Forestry Center at Seredou, vith resources
for upgrading staff mobility, rehabilitating and re-equipping offices and three
long-term advisers to support Guinean management at the Center and the two major
humid forest reserves (Diecke and Ziama). Resources vill also be provided for
demarcation, forest surveillance, and roads.
3.09    Demarcation. The boundaries of the Diecke and Ziama Reserves, estimated
at 340 km, vill be demarcated vith peripheral roads and footpaths, or cleared
and planted vith buffer strip plantations on the basis of 40 km in PYl and 100
km each in PY2-4.
3.10    Forest  Surveillance.    Eleven  forest  surveillance  posts  vill  be
established in the villages adjacent to the Diecke and Ziama reserves -- one for
every 10,000 ha of remaining forest. Each post vill be marned by one techuician
and four surveillance agents, and, as needed, vill consist of houses, an office,



17
a vell or a borehole, a 8ma8l agricultural plot for staff use, a motorcycle and
bicycles.  Poste vill be established on the folloving basis: two in PY1, two in
PY2, and one in PY3 for a total of flve in Diecke; and two in each PY1-3 for a
total of six in Ziama (i.e., a total of four in PYI, four ln PY2, and three in
PY3).
3.11    Roade.  An adequate but light road network vill be constructed to serve
protection, manag'ment, and silviculture.  lWhere logging is permitted on a
sustained yield basis by private concessionaires, the logging tracks vill bu
constructed by the concessionaires, in accordance vith specifications prescribed
by the Forestry Departzent. In the interest of limiting post-Project recurrent
costs, road construction vill be kept to a minimum estimated at a total of 75
km. The road layout vill be determined in the management plans. It i estimated
that the roads will be constructed at a rate of 25 km/year f rom PY2 to PY4. Road
construction and maintenance vill be contracted out to local companies.
Management
3.12    Once protected,  parts of the natural  forest vill be opened for
development, folloving sound management plans.   The completed IDB-financed
inventory on the entire forest zone vill provide the basis for management plans
which vill divide the forests into territorial management units. The Project
management plans vill provide specifications for each unit regarding protection
activities, silviculture, harvesting and expected wood yields, and road
locations. Plans will be drawn up on a "rolling' ten-year basis, updated every
five years, and vill include a framework plan and yield estimates for the next
50 years.  Compartments are usually allocated for selection felling for a period
cf three to five years, to allow more flexibility for the concessionaire.  The
management plan should only prescribe where such felling could take place during
the next two or three periods; other felling areas vill be identified
subsequently.
3.13    The plans for Diecke and Ziama vill cover both reserves entirely, but
vll distinguish between production and protection foreste by specifying: (a)
areas and methods of exploitation to be applied for timber production on a basis
of selection felling and sustained yield; and (b) areas to be closed to all
harvesting due to erodibility or their particular value as biotypes. About
70,000 ha of primary forest are likely to be suitable for timber production on
a sustained yield basis. A consultant vill be recruited for six months early
in the Project to help DNFC prepare the vorking plans based oz. the forest zone
inventory  nov  completed.    This  expert  will  work  closely vith  Guinean
counterparte, who vill aftervards continue vorking on the implementation of the
management plan for Diecke and Ziama, and on the inventory and management plans
unit at Seredou. They vill also prepare the management plan for the dry forest.
MWhile managament plans are being prepared, the manager of this component and his
adviser vill be responsible for formulating interim annual vork plans on the
basis of existing information.



18
Silviculture
3.14 The Project vill finance a number of silvicultural operations closely
associated vith the forest protection and management operations ln Diecke and
Ziama.   The Forestry Departments in Guinea's prefectures have virtually no
experience in conducting various silvicultural operations aimed at stabilizing
and expanding forest cover. Therefore, the Project vill provide resources to
allow staff to learn while performing useful forestry vorks. The ecological
impact of silviculture operations vill be closely monitored by DNFC staff.
'While not exclusive, the various elements are described below.
3.15 Stand Improvement. Folloving selection felling, old specimens of species
judged to be non-marketable in the foreseeable future, vill be destroyed by
ringbarking or poisoning vith arboricides on a pilot basis over an area of 1,200
hectares. The use of arboricides vill be lees than 1.5 liters/ha and adopted
only where ringbarking is impractical.  Young trees will not be destroyed.
Consequently, should the market undergo drastic changes, species vhich appear
to be unmarketable today vill be available for future exploitation.  The Project
vill finance labor, tools, and materials. Implementation vill be carried out on
100 ha ln PY2, 400 ha in PY3 and 700 ha in PY4.
3.16 Enricbment Planting. Enrichment planting vill be carried out on a pilot
scale over an area of 300 ha by using, to the extent possible, species indigenous
to the Western Africa rainforest. During the first year suitable stands vill
be selected and an operation plan prepared, followed by the planting in PY2-4
of 50, 100 and 150 ha respectively. The Project vill finance labor, tools, and
materials.
3.17  Reforestation.   The purpose of reforestation isto discourage farmers
practicing shifting cultivation from returning to deforested areas.          The
reforestation vill take place ln the 10,000 ha of the Diecke and Ziama reserves
vhich have recently been deforested. To the extent possible, manual labor vill
be used for land clearing, planting and weeding, although the Project vill also
finance the services (or purchase) of a tractor and equipment when and where
labor is insufficient. As for enrichment planting, indigenous rainforest species
vill be preferably used for reforestation. The reforestation component vill
finance civil works, equipment, labor, materials, and operating costs.
3.18 Rehabilitation of Existing Artificial Plantations. The two Forest Reserves
include about 1,000 ha of 10 to 15 years old plantations.  Some need weeding,
others need thinnlng.   The Project vill finance the labor needed for these
operations.
3.19 Support to Aaroforestry. As part of the programs to be carried out by the
prefectoral Forestry Departments, extension services in agroforestry and
agricultural intensification of valley bottoms vill be provided to encourage
farmers to grow tree crops and shrubs on the cleared slopes rather than rainfed
rice, or ideally to abandon cultivation on hillsides in favor of more productive
irrigated rice cultivation on valley floors. To develop expertise in this area,
the Project vill finance two agricultural extension agents (one for each of the
forests) who vill be seconded from the existing Agricultural Eextension Service
to vork vith the management of the forest reserves. Each agroforestry extension
agent vill be provided vith a motorcycle.



19
(c) Dry Forests Protection and ManaRement (Working Paper No. 3)
3.20    The Project will provide management assistance (through the Forestry
Center at Seredou, supported by DNFC), vehicles, equipment, and operating funds
to Guinea- staff undertaking the protection and management of about 160,000 ha
of dry forest located in the prefectures of Dinguiraye and Dabola (Map 21599).
Although important as a safeguard against future mismanagement, the Project
activities vill be much less intensive in the dry forest than in the more
threatened and ecologically more valuable humid forests.
Protection
3.21    Demarcation and Gazetting.   The dry forest of Upper Guinea vill be
surveyed vithin the Project period, and two major areas vill be identified for
protection, up to a maximum of 160.000 hectares. The areas vill be demarcated
vith cement boundary markers and gazetted. The Project vill provide transport
and associated operating costs for DNFC and prefecture-level staff.
3.22    Forest  Surveillance.    Eleven  forest  surveillance  posts  vill  be
constructed in the Upper Guinea dry forest, one for each 15,000 hectares. Each
post will consist of two houses for forest surveillance agents, one house for
a forestry technician, an office lstore, a vell or borehole, one hectare of land
per family, transportation, and radio communication equipment. Only in those
parts of the forest perimeter particularly susceptible to fire vill firebreaks
be constructed.
Management
3.23    The Guinean forest engineer responsible for the dry forest component
vill prepare a management plan for the 160,000 ha of dry forest, based on this
expert's reconnaissance of the forests, on the satellite photographs to be
provided, and on the forest engineer's experience gained while participating in
the preparation of the vorking plAns for the humid forests. The Project vill
provide for transport and per diem expenditures durlng the initial reconnaissance
and identification of the dry forest, estimated to take one year.
2. Land Rights Pilot Operation (Working Paper No. 4)
3.24    The Project vill finance, on a pilot basis, an inventory and registry
of land rights in zones around the managed large humid forests (para 3.14). This
pilot operation vill comprise three componentss
(a) A policy component which vill aim at assisting the Government in
finalizing the drafting of a land law reflecting the liberal turn of
its economy, which vill recognize land rights of customary land owners,
based on the proposals put forward by MARA. The Project vill finance
one man-year of technical assistance f rom a land law specialist to hkad
a drafting committee.
(b) An institution building component to help strengthen MARA's Land
Directorate through the selection, appointment and training of adequate
staff and the provision of necessary equipment.   The Project vill



20
finance the salaries and training of incremental staff, office
equipment, and one four-wheel drive vehicle.
(c) An inventory and registry component which vill finances
(i) aerial photography, photo-cartography at a scale of ls5,000 or
1:10,000, according to local requirements, and field surveys of
lsad rights over a pilot area of about 40,000 to 80,000 ha in the
vicinity of the Diecke and Ziama Reserves in the Southeast;
(iI) a survey through standard topographical methode of selected small
valley bottomlands vhere land is being redistributed for intensive
agricultural production and diversification in various areas of
the country;
(iii) the establishment and maintenance of one or more land
registries at the prefectoral level in the southeastern region.
The Project will finance aerial photography and cartography
services to be procured through international bidding;
Civ) the establishment and training of six field survey teams of four
people each (one land tenure agent, one topographer, one
agricultural agent, and one rural social worker), equipped with one
car per team and the necessary topographical material; and
(v) the establishment, staff training, and equipment of one or twv
prefectoral registries.
3. Management of Offshore Fisheries (Working Paper No. 5)
3.25    The Project vill assist the Government in implementing a viable fisheries
management program.   Effective fisheries management  involves a number of
distinct, intrinsically linked activities which require a strong managing
institution, surveillance of the fleet, and continuous updating of scientific
knowledge of fish stock.   The integrated system of activities will include
institutional support, surveillance, and research.
(a) Institutional Support
3.26    The SEP vill be supported in its traditional role of managing offshore
fisheries resources (para 2.27) through the provision of long-term technical
assistance (Annex 3-1) in the form of a surveillance expert and a
management/accounting expert. Short-term technical assistance vill be provided
to assist in determining national maritime boundaries, conducting a comprehensive
review of fisheries legialation, and determining an updated licencing fee
structure adapted to Guinean conditions.
3.27    A training program vill be undertaken to strengthen SEP's e7ecution
capacity. Both classroom and on-the job training will be provided for about 40
observera, nine civilian fisheries inspectors, and aircraft crews (para 3.291.
Observers and inspectors vill receive refresher and upgrading tralning on a
periodic basis.   Air crews vill be trained in surveillance techniques and
procedural matters through a short classroom course and repeated demoustration,



21
supervised by a surveillance expert. Short-term technical assistance vill design
and provide assistance for systems and operations training, and conduct and
supervise initial and refresher training programs for inspectors, observers and
aircraft crevs. In addition, about 200 m2 of office space vill be provided or
renovated and equipped.   The Project vill include the hiring of a locally
recruited, experienced fisheries lawyer.
(b) Surveillance
3.28    The Project vill support the monitoring of the fishing fleet at sea.
A corps of about nine civilian fisheries inspectors vill be recruited to make
at-sea inspections consisting of: (i) verifying catch against guidelines for
harvesting regulated species; (ii) verifying logbook recording and fishing gear
requirements; (iii) examining production plant operations; and (iv) monitoring
vessel-to-vessel transhipments of catch.   Inspectors vill be provided vith
improved guidelines for at-sea operations to ensure greater consistency in
investigation and establish a system for varning captains in the case of lesser
violations. Suspected major violations vill be referred to the Guinean legal
system for action (para 4.07).
3.29    A corps of 40 trained fisheries observers vill be deployed, folloving
well-defined operational guidelines on foreign and domestic licensed fishing
vessels on a regular basis. They vill compile data from shipboard catch samples
and fishing vessel logbooks, measure fishing effort characteristics and resource
yields, and convey their findings to SEP headquarters and to the Boussoura
Research Station for analysis whose results vill be used to develop fisheries
management plans. Fishing vessel captains vill be required by law to respect
the status and role of both inspectors and observers.   To complete the
surveillance program, the Project vill establish a communications center at SEP
headquarters to monitor operational plans and logistical arrangements. Personnel
vill be responsible for preparing and conducting briefing and debriefing sessions
of aircraft pilots, fisheries observers, and inspectors prior to and upon
completion of each surveillance trip. Radio equipment located vithin the center
will permit SEP pers  ael to remain in constant contact vith operational units.
Data processing facilàties vill monitor fishing vessel activities and
surveillance outputs for the preparation of MCS vork plans, and monitor catches
against estimations of fleet or individual vessel catches.  Financing vill be
provided for civil vorks, vehicles, communications equipment, inflatable boats,
outboard motors,  camera  equipment,  and  simple  scientific  equipment.    A
communications specialist and a data systems specialist (short-term technical
assistance) vill conduct systems requirement studies and design, supervise
installation of, and operationalize the systems, and provide on-the-job training
to operators/programmers. The cost of incremental local staff vill be covered
by the Project.
(c) RLsearch
3.30    Fisheries research vill be implemented through a program of at-sea and
laboratory observations of the biological and environmental characteristics
which impact marine resources and ecosysteme, whether directly or indirectly.
Studies of fish migratory patterns, feeding habits, reconstitution of stock, and
species characteristics, among others, vill assist scientists at the Boussoura
Research Station in estimating the total fisheries biomass in Guinean waters.



22
When the total population level is known, the annual safe harvesting level vill
be estimated.   Two research cruises of 30 days duration vill be conducted
annually over the Project period, and data collected vill be analyzed by
Boussoura scientists. Financing vill be included for trawling equipment. data
processing equipment, technical assistance, and Guinean incremental staff.
D. Prolect Coste and Financina
Cost Estimates
3.31    The cost of the proposed Project is estimated at FG 13.6 billion (US$23.0
million).    This  includes  a  foreign cost  component  of US$15.8 million,
representing 69Z of total coste, and taxes and duties of US$2.0 million. Project
costs include activities financed under the PPF, amounting to US$500.000 (para
3.33>.
3.32    Base coste are given in March 1989 prices.  Physical continger.cies of
152 have been allowed for civil works and 10Z on all Project costs except
personnel, technical assistance, and short-term consultants. Price contingencies
on foreign exchange cost, based on Bank Projections, have been included at an
average of 62 for 1990, and 52 from 1990 to 1994. Price contingencies on local
coste, based on the Bank's forecast of domestic Consumer Price Index, are 20Z
for 1990, 16Z for 1991, 122 for 1992, and 72 for 1993 and 1994. Total price
contingencies amount to 222 of base coste. Project costs are summarized below
and details are given in Annexes 3-2 and 3-3 for the forestry and land rights
components, and Annexes 3-4 and 3-5 for the fisheries component. Detailed cost
tables are presented in Working Paper No. 6.



23
Prolect Cot Sumary
Local Forelgn Total Local Forlsn Total  FE  Coet
_~F~~ I Uillion---   S smlon-   r             -
Fore sMon    nt
_ndl Land Riahe
Instltutlonal Support       2e4   1828  1887   0.46  2.78  8.20  8   18
enage nwt l Protection      884   2042  2920   1.60  8.40  4.96  70  28
Tralnlng                    124    680   792   0.21  1.18  7.84  84   7
Land Rights                 182    767   989   0.31  1.28  1.69  81   9
Subtotal                î4W    UN   e64-4  2.47  7. U  11.09  78  ME
Fleherle. Management
Inetitutional Support        80    892   972   0.14  1.61  1.66  92   9
SurveIllance               1081   9So   2027   1.76  1.ô9  8.44  49  19
Resoarch                     c8   9#9  1037   0.11  1.64  1.76  94  10
Subtot.l                1T79   WSY  403    rIE  4.4 M       f   71  W
Total Da» Coste         BU 2 33       [EU    t47 1TN-lm   17.9S  76  W
Physical Contingencle«   238    429   884   0.40  0.78  1.18  86   a
Price Contlngencles      1292   1028  2820   2.29  1.65  8.94  42  22
TOTAL Project COST      -11       1 19404 T3161   7[E0 T16.8  28.00 M E  TE
(Including taxes)
Taxe                     118S    -    1186   2.00  -      2.00
TOTAL Proj.ct COST      TMYN   1111 TMN7E   YIE  M1.   Irw
(net of tXe«)
Includ«s a PPF advence of USUU,b000.
Proiect PreiParation Facilitv
3.33      A PPF advance of US$500,000 was awarded to the Government in October
1988 to (a) finance consultants to undertake architectural studies and prepare
bidding documents for the former DNEF (National Directorate of Water and
Forests) head office building;   (b) complete inventory work leading to the
development of a management plan for the humid forests of Ziama and Diecke; (c)
undertake soil studies in areas to be replanted; (d) prepare an indicative vork
plan for the five prefectures in the forest zone; (e) finalize arrangements to
launch the training program at the Forestry Faculty at Faranah; and (f) make a
preliminary  inventory  of  dry  forest  to  be  brought  under management.    A
consultant was also engaged to assist in executing these activities.



24
Financins Plan
3.34    Project coste including taxes vill be financed in the folloving amounts
and propositions.
F1nancina Plan by Component
OOV'Y  IDA   KfW  «CE    CIDA    oJ _    Tsx
~ ( -usrT   t Ony---
CIvil Works              0.8  1.0   1.0                    2.8   0.8
Planting                             0.6                   0.6
Vhictle                       1.2   0.a                    1.C
Equip»ent                     0.6   0.8                    1.8
Salaries                 1.1  0.7   0.2                    2.0   0.1
Technicxl Asasteace           8.0   1.9   0.8    1.6    7.8
Opsratins Comte          4,6  1.0   0.8   1.2              7.0   1.6
Net Financing            8.0  8.0   86.   2.0    1.6   28.0   2.0
Raqul r_nte
Shr et f nancing (X)
With taxes               26   8S    24       9       6    lmfl
Without taxe             19   88    26    10         7    luxf
The IDA Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent vill finance about 35Z of Project
costs (net of taxes), including US$1.6 million of local costs. The Government
vill finance mainly incremental fuel, operating costs, and salaries.  Other
external financing by RfW, CCCE and CIDA vill be under parallel arrangements.
Financial Management Systems
3.35    The executing agencies vill maintain separate accouating records for
Project costs, consistent vith sound accounting practices which vill reflect
fa.rly, in accordance vith international accounting principles, the financial
situation of the Project.  Annual budgets and vork plans, prepared by each
executing agency, vill be submitted to IDA for review and commenta two months
prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.  Measures to set up an adequate
accounting system and improve financial management and accountability vithin each
executing agency vill include the recruitment of additional qualified local staff
and two international experts in Project financial management (for DNFC, DRF,
and SEP). The internationally recruited experts vill (a) design and set up a
Management and Financial Information System for each executing agency, not later
than six monthe after Project effectiveness; (b) maintain accounting records and
prepare Project periodic reports; and (c) prepare disbursement requests.
Assurances on the above vere obtained during negotiations.
Auditing arl ReyortinR Reauirements
3.36    The Project financial statements and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
vill be audited annually, in accordance vith internationally accepted standards,
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited accouats vill be submitted
to IDA once a year, vithin six monthe after the close of the financial year.
Progress reports on Project implementation prepared by SEP, DNFC and DRF vill
be submitted to IDA twice a year, vithin three monthe after the half-year review
and until Project completion.   Progrees  reports vill includes (a) Project
achievements compared vith the annual prograla; (b) actual coet for carrying out



25
the program compared vith cost Projected during appraisal; and (c) couments on
key probleme and future priorities and needs. DNFC, DRF, and SEP vill each
submit an annual evaluation report on the forestrylland rights and fisheries
components, and a Project Completion Report vithin six months after Project
completion. A mid-term review of the Project vill be conducted jointly by the
Government and IDA. Assurances on the above vere obtained at negotiations.
Procurement
3.37    Civil vorks vith a val'e of about US$200,000 vill be procured on the
basis of International Compet_ .,e Bidding (ICB), except small civil vorks
scattered geographically, which vill be procured by Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) in accordance vith procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracte for goods
and services below US$50,000 vill be procured through local shopping; the
aggregate value vill not exceed US$1 million.  Contracts for goode exceeding
US$150,00C vill be procured through ICB and those below US$150,000 but above
US$50,000 vill be procured under LCB. To the extent possible, procurement of
goode will be grouped to allow for ICB. All procurement decisions for contracts
in excess of US$100,000 vill be submitted to IDA for prior review. Technical
assistance and consultants vill be procured folloving Bank guidelines, in lots
vhich vill permit bidding by individuals as vell as from traditional and non-
traditional sources. Procurement arrangements are summarized below (all figures
include contingencies).
Procurement Arrangemente M/
Other b/  Total
Procurement Ele«ont        Ica     LCS  Other   Source       Cost"
-===== --'USmi I iS --.
Civl Works                 0.6     0.6             1.0        2.2
<0.6)   (0.8)                     (0.9)
Planting                    -       -      -       0.6 c/    0.6
VYhicles                   1.3      -    0.2        -         1.6
(1.0)         (0.2)       -       (1.2)
Equlpment                   -      0.6     -       0.8        1.8
(0.6)                    (0.S)
Consultant                 8.2      -      -       4.2        7.4
(8.2)                             (8-2)
Salaries                    -       -    2.0        -         2.0
(O.7)d/            (0.7)
Operating Coste             -       -    6.8       1.8        7.6
(l.0O)/           (1.0)
PPF                         -       -    0.6        -         0.S
(0.5)              (0.5)
6.1     1.1   9.0       7.8      28.0
(4.8)   (0.8)  (2.4)              (8.0)
et Amounte In parentheses Indiente IDA lfrnncing.
b/ Parallel financing by other donore vould be under thetr own procurement procedurs.
e/ To be executed under force accourt as lots to b plant.d are scattered geographically.
d/ Salaries of newly recrulted observers and tnspectore of SEP.
*/ Operating cos"t for vehicles, travel and office expenses following acceptable government
procedur«s.



26
Disbursement
3.38 The credit vill be disbursed over a period of six and a half years, which
corresponds to the standard disbursement profile for Guinea (Annex 3-6) and upon
conditions of cross-effectiveness being met. IDA's contribution to operating
costs vill be on a declining basis alloving the Government to build up to its
post Project funding responsibilities. Disbursements vill be made against SOEs
for all operating costs and all contracts equivalent to less than US$S0,000.
Documentation of SOEs vill be held for annual review by IDA supervision missions.
The disbursement categories against which IDA vill disburse are as follows.
Alc ation and Disburesm_t of IDA Cr dit
Amount         Percentge of
Cet_Ory               US mililon   expenditures to b. f an.ed
1. Clvil Workm           0.9       100X met of taSK
2. Vehicles and Equipmunt   1.S    l00m net of taxs
8. Consultants           2.8       l00m
4. Operating coste
Land Righnt           0.6        081
Fiaherles             1.1        88X <PYI), 27X (PY2), 18 (PY8), C% (PY4)
Refinanclng PPF       0.6
Un»lloceted           0.7
Revolvina Funds
3.39    In order to expedite Project execution, tvo Special Accounts (SAs) vill
be opened in a comercial bank acceptable to IDA vith an authorized initial
allocation of US$1S0,000 for forestry management and protection and the land
rights pilot operation (an average of approximately four months of all eligible
expenditures), and of US$200,000 for fisheries management. The accounts wili
be established immediately after credit effectiveness through the vithdraval of
these amounts from the IDA credit.  Assurances vere obtained to that effect
during negotiations. IDA vill replenish the accounts on receipt of evidence of
disbursement from the SAs for eligible expenditures. Monthly bank statements
of the SAs vill accompany replenishment requests.
3.40    To ensure efficient and timely implementation of the Project, the
Government vill open three local currency Project Accounts (PAs) for the Project
at a comuercial bank in Conakry.   Requirements in local currency vill be
established four times a year and vill form the basis on which the local currency
accounts vill be maintained. The accounts vill be replenished quarterly and in
advance on the basis of cash requirements forecaste so as to meet local
expenditures for the next three months. Assurances vere obtained to this effect
during negotiations.



27
3.41   The opening of the three PAs vith initial deposits by the Government of
GF 215 million (GF 80 million for forestry management and protection, GY 10
million for the land rightt pilot operation. and GF 125 million for the fisheries
management component), equivalent to half of the Government's first year
contribution in local funds, vill be conditions of credit disbursement.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01    Forestry,  land rights,  and fisheries activities vill be organized
separately under the supervision of the twv responsible ministries. Separate
budgets and accouats vill be prepared sad maintained. Assurances to this effect
vere obtained at negotiations.
Forest Protection and Management
4.02    The forestry components vill be organized and managed through DNFC,
located in Conakry (Organizational structure is presented in Annex 4-1). Its
Director General vill be the Project manager, and the various departments vill
play their regular roles.   At headquarters,  the Director General vill be
supported by a long-term adviser to reorganize the vork, facilities, training,
and functioning of DNFC, and a long-term financial adviser to provide financial
management support to the forestry sector and supervise all financial Project
operations.
4.03    Daily forest protection and silviculture activities in the Diecke and
Ziama forests zones vill be carried out through the Forestry Center in Seredou
attached to the Forestry Department and a long-term forester who vill advise on
the prefecture-level programe (para 3.06). The Center vill be staffed vith a
director and thu.ee managers (one each for Ziama and Diecke, based ln Nzerekore,
and one for the dry forest); all local forest engineers vill be supported by the
Center', senior adviser and two junior technical advisers. Management plans for
the forest reserves vill be prepared by DNFC staff vith the help of a consultant.
4.04    Formal retraining vill be conducted at Faranah and managed by staff of
the Institut Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. This training vill be supervised by the
Project manager.
Land Rights Pilot Operation
4.05    The land rights pilot operation vill be implemented through MARA's Land
Resource Division (DRF) assisted during three years by a specialist in land
tenure administration who will also help select and train' divisional staff. A
pilot registry vill be first established in Seredou, where the Diecke and Ziama
Reserves are located. Copies of the land documents vill be stored in Conakry.
Selection and training of all the necessary staff are expected to require
considerable time and vill have to be preceded by a clear definition of the
Government's land tenure policy. Field activities will therefore not start



28
before PY2.  The pilot operation vill be perceived by farmers as a neutral
activity to ensure farmers' and village chiefs' active collaboration. In this
context, the Forestry Department of the Ministry vill be considered as one
claimant on land rights among others, and confirmation of those rights vill be
entrusted to the Land Resource Division.
Management of Offshore Fisheries
4.06    The  fisheries  program vill be organized and managed by  the  SEP
(Organizational structure is presented in Annex 4-2). The General Secretary for
Fisheries vill be the Project manager, as he has sufficient oversight to assure
adequate cooperation among SEP departments and liaison with other executing
agencies. The SEP vill be responsible for determining the annual catch to be
allowed and the number of days of fishing to be authorized, managing the corps
of at-sea inspectors and observers, initiating legal action in the case of
violations of the Fisheries Code. and administ6ring fishing licenses whose fees
vill be determined jointly with the Ministry of Finance. A revised licensing
system vill be introduced, whose objective will be to set and apply
environmentally safe harvesting levels, and generate justified resources for the
State. Levels of catch, number of fishing days, and plan for distributing
licences vill be specified in an annual fishing plan to be prepared by SEP.
Licencing will apply to ail ships, including those of foreign and Guinean flags,
industrial and semi-industrial. Fees will be determined. first at a level to
cover the cost of management activities, and second, at levels considered
acceptable under international norms to generate revenues. As a condition of
disbursement for the component, the Government vill produce the first such
fishing plan (presumably for the season beginning January 1990).
4.07    owing  to  the  unique  characteristics  of  the  operation,  air-sea
surveillance will be managed by a small, new unit reporting to the National
Director for Fisheries. The formal inclusion of this post in the new structure
of the SEP (para 2.28) vill be a condition of disbursement against the component.
Air surveillance vill be executed under contract to a private company, whose
employees vill be trained in the task.  Flights vill be made vith SEP inspectors
cii board. Inspectors engaged in at-sea monitoring of fishing will follow strict
operating rules defined in the Fisheries Code.   As an economic measure,
inspectors vill be ferried to, from and between ships at sea by the National
Navy, and the Government vill be responsible for financing these movements.
Observers vill remain on board of host vessels, being embarked and disembarked
from Conakry, Kamsar,  or any other port mutually agreed upon.   Veée the
inspectors or observers to note Code violations, these officers vill refer them
to the country's judicial system,  for action.   Conclusion of air and sea
logistical arrangements satisfactory to IDA vill be a condition of disbursement
against the component.
4.08     Responsibilities for executing fisheries research vill be assigned to
the Boussoura Research Station, under the general supervision of the Ministry
of Education. Although technical fisheries observers vill report directly to
SEP, they vill receive functional direction f rom Research Station staff. Marine
statisticians vill receive direction from Research Station scientists.



29
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
A.   Production (Working Paper No. 7)
Forest Products
5.01    The area covered by the Diecke and Ziama forest reserves is being
encroached and subject to clearings. Rovever, this does not translate into a
corresponding high production of timber, as deforestation is due mainly to
itinerant agriculture. Vith appropriate protection and managemç.t, two-thirds
of the remaining 106,000 ha of forest could be used for timber production which
vill yield, under conservative Projections, i m3 of timber/halyear. The 1,200
ha of improved forest stands and 300 ha of enricbment planting vill give an
incremental yield of 1.5 to 2 m3lha/year. Weeding and thinning of the existing
1,000 ha of plantations could be expected to increase yields by 2 m3lyear. The
1,200 ha of reforested area will yield at least 6 m3/halyear. Production from
the dry forest is currently limited by its distance to markets and the presence
of contagious diseases in the reserves. Under improved management hovever, the
forests could yield 0.5 to 1 m3/year per ha. DetUils on Projected production
are givee in Annex 5-1 and are summar±zed below.
Total
Iacremental         Incremental
Yield              Yield
(m3/halyear)          (n3)
Generated Activity
Protection & management of 70,000 ha
of humid productive forest                   1.0                 70,000
Stand improvement & enrichment (1,500 ha)      1.6                  2,400
Additional plantations (1,200 ha)              6.0                  7,000
Weeding & thinning of existing plantations    2.0                   2,000
Protection & management (160,000 ha) of
dry forests                                  0.5                 80,000
Total                                                           161,400
5.02   About half of the logs are expected to be of utility grade (whitewoods)
snd half of furniture quality (redwoods) suitable for export.  The yield in
sawnwood of the vhitevoods is expected to be 40Z, the rest being fuelwood and
savmill vaste. The decision whether to export or saw locally the redwood logs
vill be made by private concessionaires.  Assuming hovever that redwoods are
expnrted, the Project vill accouant for incremental savnwood production for local
markets of about 30,000 m31year after PYl0. This vill reduce, but not eliminate,
Guinea'. import dependence from about 20,000 m3 in 1989 to about 5,000 m3 in
2000.



30
Fish
5.03      A:'-ual  fish production  from Guinea's  EEZ  cannot  be  determined
accurately from available data. Estimates seem to indicate that global annual
catches of flsh could currently vary between 80,000 to 120,000 tons. However,
this level of effort is considered to exceed the sustainable annual yield
potential of the stock. Firm estimates of the production potential of Guinean
offshore fish stock vill be made follwing analysis of the results of a
scientific cruise scheduled for October 1989. This vill reveal information on
f sh biomass and its sustainable yield, estimated presently at about
30,000 t/year. Without the introduction of a reliable management system, it can
be assumed that fish production lu Guinea's EEZ vill rapidly decrease to about
10,000 t/year by 1994.  In order to reconstitute the depleted fish stock in
Guinea, stricter licence restrictions vill be imposed. Foreign fleet activity
vill be gradually reduced and replaced by local fleets as they become more
efficient.  It is expected that incremental industrial production vill reach
75,000-100,000 t by 1997, of which about 502 vill come from local fishing fleets
by PY8.   (More details on fish production are given in Annex 5-2.)  Production
vithin the 15 mile limit vill also improve substantially under the Project, as
industrial ships vill no longer be able to fish in this zone. The induced effect
cannot be estimated at present.
B.       Markets and Prices
Forest Products
5.04   The main physical output of forest management activities will be savlogs.
This timber vill be cut and processed by private entrepreneurs following
mgnagement plans developed vith the support of the Project. The consumption of
savnvood in Guinea is estimated to increase from about 97,000 m3 today to about
122,000 m3 in the year 2COO, i.e., about 2S annually. Present annual consumption
is estimated at 14 m3 per 1,000 inhabitants.
5.05   Local production from artisanal pit-sawyers probably accounts for about
0B of the savnwood market, or 75,000 m3lyear. However, at present, Guinea is
a net importer of sawn and processed wood. Wood sawn to industrial standards
currently sells for about GF 400,000/m3 for redwoods and GF 225,000 m3 for
whitewoods. Savnwood from artisanal production sells for between GF 70,000 and
GF 120,000/m3.   There is currently no local market for logs due to the
prohibition of log exports since 1977.
Fish
5.06   Annual fish consumption in Guinea is estimated at 7.6 kg per capita (27.7
kg in Conakry, 20.7 kg in coastal areas, and 1 kg for the rest of the country).
Total consumption, currently estimated at 44,000 tlyear, is supplied by foreign
fleets (14,000 t) and artisanal fishermen (30,000 t).  Future consumption,
Projected at 100,000 t by 1995, should be substantially covered by local
industrial and artisanal production. Prices for chilled fish vary between GF
400 and 500 kg in the artisanal markets that cover about 902 of current demand.
The state fish promotion agency, OPPI, marketed about 4,000 t in 1988, and sold
Lts f sh at an official price of GF 300/kg. The acquisition by the Goverument



31
of new fishing capacity for a mixed enterprise, SOGUIPECHE, and its plans to take
delivery of semi-industrial trawlers in 1990, has made the future of f ish
marketing in Guinea more uncertain, since Guinea is not in a position today to
re-export fish and does not have adequate landing facilities for industrial
vessels.   The Government wishes to improve port facilities for the fishing
industry, and IDA has expressed its willingness to study proposals. However,
a number of issues related to site and capacity vill have to be resolved.
Meanwhile, the Project will provide for a ahort-term consultant to advise the
Government on its marketing strategy and privatization of the fishing industry.
C. Financial Implications
Forestry
5.07   The Government's cash flow is given in Annex 5-3.  During the Project
period, financing requirements vill total GF 8,033 million (US$13.6 million) net
of taxes, of which the Government vill finance GF 1,097 million (US$1.9 million).
Annual recurrent cost of GF 180 million (US$300,000) in constant te.ms, to be
met by the Goverrment, vill be sufficient to maintain the Project's humid forest
component after the Project's disbursement period. Proceeds from stumpage fees
vill gradually build up to GF 459 million (US$800,000) per year in PY9 (1998),
and Government cash f low vill become positive in PY5 (1994), shoving a cumulative
surplus by PY9 (1999).
Fisheries
5.08   The Goverruent's cash flow presented in Annex 5-4 shows that total
financing during the Project period vill be GF 4,345 million (US$7.4 million),
net of taxes, of which the Government vill finance GF 1,251 million (US$2.1
million). Recurrent cost of GF 225 million (US$400,000) vill be adequate to
maintain a reduced monitoring and surveillance operation rendered possible by
the increased efficiency of MCS operators and a reduction in the number of
licenses issued to foreign vessels.   There vill be a negative impact on
government cash f low f rom PYn to PY3, due to a reduced number of licenses issued
to foreign vessels during this period. Starting in PYS (1994), revenues from
licenses vill increase and vill reach annually a maximum of G? 2,300 million
(US$3.9 million) from PY6 (1995).
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.      Proiect lenefits
6.01 The Project will improve the management and protection of Guinea's humid
snd dry forests. In addition to itB ecological value, the Project vill develop
sector institutional capability through the retraining of 80 forest engineers,
the promotion of rational use of forest reserves with private sector
participation, and increased revenue for the Government. Finally, the Project
Will provide incremental production of wood for domestic sawnwood markets and
eventually exports. The quantifiable benefits of the Project vill result from
incremental production and savlogs from the humid forest zones.



32
6.02   The land rights pilot operation can be expected to have long-term benefits
in many areas.  It io hoped that vith increased stability in their own land
rights, farmers vill acknovledge rights of the State to forest reserves and,
thus, respect their boundaries.  Beyond the immediate, however, it is becomL-g
clear that greater cortainty in land rights and their formal registration are
keys to increased agriculture productivity, investment in land conservation, and
greater use of credit -- to mention only three. The benefits of land rights
registry are probably greater where the conflicts are greatest, in urban and
peri-urban zones.   The pilot operation vill bring about new approaches to
resolving land rights issues and, most importantly, an awareness on the part of
the Government that the issue could be managed through positive social action.
(More details on forestry and land rights benefits are given in Annex 5-1.)
6.03   The Project vill improve the management and protection of Guinea's ocean
fisheries resources.  Institutional capabilities of SEP vill be strengthened
through improved fishing regulations, training of personnel, and operational
capacity. Improved licencing procedures, combined vith monitoring, vill increase
government revenues, reduce overfishing, and stimulate private local industrial
fishing fleets. An induced effect of the surveillance and control operations
vill be to exclude industria! fleets from the 15 mile limit fishing zone and
thus create opportunities for local artisanal fishing to develop.   Finally,
increased local fishing capacity vill provide an additional supply of fish for
domestic markets and, eventually, exports.  (More details on fisheries benefits
are given in Annex 5-2.)
B.      Econemic Justification
Forestry
6.04   The assumption used in the calculation of the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) and for the sensitivity analysis is stated in Annex 6-1. On the basis of
a Project life of 20 years, the ERR for the Humid Forest component is estimated
at about 39Z and its Net Present Value (NPV) discounted at 10 (the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Guinea) is GF 8,201 million (US$13.9 million).
The vithout Project benefits have been assumed to remain constant based on
available  information.    Post-Project costa involve the minimum resources
necessary to maintain Project achievements. Inc:emental production has been
conservatively estimated (Annex 5-1).  The Project is not sensitive to costs and
benefits variations as indicated in the sensitivity analysis. The high ERR and
low sensitivity to cest and price change are to be expected, considering that
the Project is designed principally to improve management of resources rather
than to lnvest in creating new resources.
Fisheries
6.05 The Project's ERR for this component is about 32Z (Annex 6-2) and its NPV,
discounted at 10Z (the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Guinea), le GF
17,357 million (US$29 million). Incremental recurrent post-Project costs reflect
the minimum resources necessary to maintain an effective control over Guinea's



33
EEZ, including air/sealland operations and vital monitoring of fish blomass by
the Research Center.   Incremental benefits have been assumed to accrue from
licensing of foreign fleets and local industrial production (Annex 5-2).
C. Risks
6.06   The Project'a technical underpinnings do not appear to present major
risks. In the case of forestry, proposals for forestry protection and management
have been tested and found sound (even though they are not always practiced).
The Goverament's proposed silvicultural techniques, species and site selection
are appropriate. The attempt to regularize land rights as an element of forest
protection is a new concept, but it is treated as a pilot operation which has
strong government support. Concerning fisheries management, similar systens are
being successfully executed by major maritime nations with important fishing
industries, including Western Af rica countries (Senegal, for example, where minor
implemeatation probleme have arisen over jurisdictional issues rather than
technical ones).
6.07   The principal risk to the Project is the speed vith which Guinean staff,
both at DNFC and SEP, can acquire the skills necessary for Project management.
In the case of forestry, this risk has been minimized by including technical
advisors in the Project, as well as a strong program for training.  Project
objectives are also being limited to ensure successful development of the
institutions.   There is clear also a clear commitment on the part of the
Government to Project execution.
6.08   The risks concerning the successful implementation and sustainability of
the pilot land rights operation are: (a) an inadequate land law, which will not
be conducive to individual ownership security; (b) inadequate training of DRP's
staff; and (c) irregularities in the registration process.  IDA is seeking a
government consensus on land policy before making a final decision on how to
proceed with field activities.  The Project will bear the cost of extensive
training of selected staff, part of it to be provided in Côte d'Ivoire vhere
adequate facilities and experience are available. Project supervision vill have
to be particularly careful about detecting potential irregularities in the
registration process. An ombudsman entrusted vith hearing possible complaints
from land rights holders and enjoying both their trust and the Government's will
need to be appointed.
6.09   Risks of poor performance are greater for MCS, considering the lack of
transparency of fishing licensing in the past, presumed political manipulation,
and poor management.  These risks are being addressed to the extent possible
through agreements in the legal framework for licensing (the Fisheries Code),
training of staff (inspectors and observers), and improvement in operations
guidelines and resources for executing staff. Hawever, close supervision of this
component will be required.



34
VII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01   Agreements on the Project's objectives and components will be sufficient
to guide general Project execution, supported vith usual agreements covering
procurement, disbursement, and reporting.
7.02 Assurances obtained during negotiationss
(a) the internationally recruited experts vill design Management and
Financial Information Systems for each executing agency, maintain
accounting records, and prepare Project reports and disbursement
requzests (para 3.35);
(b) auditing and reporting requirements vill be closely followed, a mid-
term review vill be jointly carried out by the Government and IDA, and
a Project Completion Report vill be issued no later than six months
after Project closing (para 3.36);
(c)  two  Special  Accounts  vill  be  opened  immediately  after  credit
effectiveness (para 3.4t); and
cd) the three Project Accounts vill be maintained and replenished
quarterly (para 3.41).
(e) the three Project components vill be organized separately and vill
maintain separate budgets and accounts (para 4.01).
7.03 Conditions for disbursement
ARainst the Forestry Component
(a) contracts for technical assistance personnel are signed and decrees
establishing the new structure of DNFC, the prefecture Forest
Departments, and the Forestry Center in Seredou are adopted (para
3.05); and
(b)  a Project Account is opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA
vith an initial deposit by the Government of GF 80 million
(US$136,000 equivalent) (para 3.41).
Against the Land Rights Pilot Operation
-    Opening of a Project Account at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA
vith the initial deposit by the Government of GF 10 million (US$17,000
equivalent) (para 3.41).



35
ARainst the Fisheries Component
(a) approval by the Government of a new Fisheries Code which will include
provisions for eliminating payment in kind (paras 2.19)>
(b) opening of a Project Account at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA
vith the initial deposit by the Government of GF 125 million
(US$211,000 equivalent) (para 3.41);
(c)  adoption of a fishing plan for 1990, which vill account for maximum
available catch estimates, based on scientific evidence, attribution
of licenses, estimation of fishing licence rates, and estimated
revenue (para 4.06); and
(d) adoption by the Government of a new structure for SEP (paras 2.28 and
4.07), including a surveillance unit (para 4.07);
(e) conclusion of subsidiary agreements for the provision of sea transport
and air services necessary for surveillance of the EZ (para 4.07)
7.04  Recomnendation.  With the above assurances and conditions, the Project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 6.3 million (US$8.0 million equivalent).
September 1989



"   ~~ w             w    
r   *   s  »  o a o o tt |~~s   S
P   P        rC.1S'B...'.-   G qo,
,X ~ ~     ~     ~     '    O    U»0   
,   t-|-ax tX -                to   *-4C
| O    " FF"   ~     ~     O   tWtO
s                        O*       0 5 *4
~~~~~~~t'jt
t~~~     ~~~~~~~ O  
fl  ,g             j                    ,f
Zi G'I UIUNQ        I UI  UIWUI0GUI*S C-
oe    r e
ww~~ '
~~~~oo                     * nwo >|fe soe x bo l4 
0:  0.0     C. _
SU  011      BS'~~~~~
u,tS0                                     a
w                                         s-'e
o
*1



37
R5IILtC 0F OJESNE                                                    Annex  3-2
fiR85TRY me Fiw     EE MFAR4O)EC 
Wr N              und WOS RITM
Prjoc*e Co. by 0o.oinl mué nd ir
IIeTITUtON SUPPORT                      -  ------- - - ---------- -                         --
___________________
conOtructdon                   83300        0      0       0 3363        168   168  83s 0.29  0.29 0.87
Vo.c1 en                       181744       0      0  14600  300352       1a   293  SO  0.00   0.80  0.t2
qu D",                          ss9370     o       o       o  es760        a    69   94 0.01  O.1  0.16
T*chnscai A..otnt              3616O 26960 S82240  95120 9o05              O   90         0.00   1.84  1.84
Operog cout.                    Oum   61500  58500  806   240000          76   1U4   40 0.18  0.20  0.41
*B, Co1t 01514  360 i40i40 300228 1808992    264  162s18  0.48   2. 78  8.20
PROToerzo a*nd NA48284T
iHuun iFiorga
Cèniction             s114s00  44000  16000        0 17680        se8   E8  177 0. l   0.18 0.80
Plmulin~                        38200  20080  44700  70730  174300    119    t8  174 0.20  0.09 0.0
Vah;t                           53011   7251   S430  83011 118712          ê   118  119 0.01  0.19  0.20
Equip.                          62760  101760  00oo00  101700 366200      1e   38u   au6 0.08  O.5  0.62
Sairn*or                        448C0  04800 1014C0  101400 341900    842         o  342 0.38  0.00 0.88
Technicml  Istent              600620  17720  177120 177120 103980s        o   1032  1032 0.90   1.75  1.78
ope tinç coot.                  70O00   MM200  91350  91350 840900    189   202  841 0.24  0.34 0.50
Base Coe                       08361  8331  u3c00  895391 2550072        712  183ç 25S1  1.21    .u2  4.82
Dry Forone
Coeuuruce;oo                        o  49000  73500  98000 220500        110   110  221 0.19  0.19  0.87
Vohicltn                        14256   5784   9676  15184  449sc          8    87   4S 0.01  0.06  0.00
Sler;or                          2400   4950  8s40   13350  29100         29      o   29 0.05  0.00 0.05
O.r.elinc    .                  62sco  S388    5iu5    8410  80640        24    Ss   81 0.04  0.10  0.14
__ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- _--  ---- -i- _ - _-Ï _
Ub Co"                          7985   63814  97228 184044 876040    172   203  878 0.29   0.34  0.64
Couolrucs;rn                  S110000       0      0       0  11O00O      8s    SS  110 0.09  0.09 0.19
Vohicl                          18876       O      o       O   ss576       4    12   16 0.01  0.02 0.08
Equipent                        10000       O   10000      O  20000        S    la   20 0.01   0.0  0.00
Techntcul A.ialnc              186tO  14286O  142560  95040 s#670          o   667  867  o.0o  0.s9 O':«
Oparatiei cooe                  257=0  25700  13700  13700  78800         60    19   79 0.10   0.08 0.23
se" Coe e40800  148260  1s62eo  108740 791846    124   e6s  791 0.21   1.13  1.64
LAO RItS PILOT PRO.3t
Coontructio                     9000        o      o           90000      45    48   90 0.08  O.o0  0.18
Vohicle.                       114048       O       O      0  1144         6    10S  114 0.01  0.28  0.19
Equip eot                       3200o       o      o       o  321oo        2    30   82 0.00  0.05 0.05
Sloerug                         21600   21600  21600       o   4800       e5      o   es 0.11  0.00 0.11
op.re;in9  4ol48                          o8050 S 0050        26703       66   193 2ti   0.1O1  0.83  0.44
Techn;c Al ien                 16720  107120  10720           3813         o   soi  sss 0.00  0.6s 0.88
Oas Cea                        47081u  189670 3096N70      o 940s6s    1S2   757  940 0.01   1.20  1.89
Be»~~~~~~~~~~ Con                U     ---i-  0--  -;Îi   -ii    7i;  --- i.31  i.2i i
eTAL S£ COST                  2797E18 125868  138i1904 1139305 6644409   1454  S090 64   2.46  0.69 11.09
Phyo;cal Coneingenci.          176488  s8  71n286  75067 S76929          146   231  S77 0.28   0.89 0.64
Price Continguncio             2692 243037 402258 438411 1348686    720   6   1349  1.22   1.07 2.29
TOTAL PRJEIT COST             32s77ti 1240 5S2t447 165450l e270023   2320  89ti   20 8.es  l.  14.02
-        _                -      -         _      _    -          r-_-



38
8Annex 3-3
RQ9UC OF O0IS
FoR;tUY  »   FISMI6  iWAN094# rMOJECr
F0flY NANAOB4BW   end  iD  RIOMT
Proj«ct Coata by Inutitution. Copoeont.aC"d Financinq
----------tFC,000)---_     _      Fia acla Pisa <P.0.'000>.--.
Met Of
O.N.F.C. O.R.F.   Total   Tes»    Tex   I..0.  iK.F.W.    ot.   Ts    Total
IUrI0 S9PP0kT
Construction                          42J44J            42S48    63l17   361632   281710    Q3S2 Wi17   4258
Veb;cie                               41181             411S51      t405   41044S   41044i                       1406  411i1
SsauPaeft                              04145             94145       85     9378     98789                        356    94145
T#chnicsl AceslUttn 1015670                                                        tO10 0  1017   10167             0  101H170
Operitino coast                       S28850               850       0    320247                       20247     8604* S26
Sub total                            2275965           2273965   74181  2201784
iMWB« aMd PR0TBT1Oi
HU-; d Foret
Conaeruction                          242112            242112     7248   23485              284664              7248   242112
Plinting                              27124             271204      1483  269811             269811              14J9  27129
Veh ile                               15258              1248          0   152546            152548                 0   18254
Esuipasnt                            4«757              467573        0   467579             487E78                 0   467573
Salariets                             5699              866MU99    28W5  585514               90000  44514   215   8669
T«hnici AI Ietat                     1156473           ltS473          0  115678            1S47S                   0  156478
Operating coat-                       481728            481728      E74   481150             481150               574  481728
Sub total                             SS9E42S           3335423 87490 3297933
Dry Foret
Construction            335258            335258~~a  5029   284969             20498Q             5028    3352
Vohilcls                               6039               6096     2769    57627   57627                         2729    696
Salarles                               415i9             45159    2258    42901                        42901     22#i   4519
porstine cete                         9497              94987    2249    92738                        927S0     2249    94987
Ssab total                            535799 I53                   5756US   4782M5
Con.truct;n                           148578             143578    21537   122041  122041                       21VS7   1485
Vehicies                               1t'90            1890       9U    17945    17945                          944   18e0
E3upmmnt                              265tE             261E8      130d   24845    24bU                         1800    26158
TCr icai At ietuae                    657738            65773S         0   65773S   657738                          0   657738
0pesrt;in  cou"                       116345            116845    E817   110520                       t628       5817   i1t
suh Total                             962698            962698   29606   938392
LAM RIOMlS PILT PRDJtST
cotruction                                     117473   11747S    1762t   09932    99851                        17621   117473
Véhicls,                                       1060E0   1s5           0   t3S0S0      500                           0   10
64uip~st                                        38011    38011         O    38011    a801                           O    8111.
Saluart                                         864s0    89640      4482     51                        018       4482    89640
"    t;a Coets                                 9      50209  350203    15  334322  334322                       158    3E02Q9
429762  429762         0   429762   429762                          0   429762
Sub TotUl                                     1160181  1160138    3798i 11221-,S
TOTAL PJEtrT CSr(F.G. 000)           7109885  11SOlS8 8270028   286824 8088109  369e874  8287240  1097005  296624  0270028
TOTAL FRDJW  CMSti.S.0 Mie.)           12.05      1.97    14.02     0.40    18.62     6.27     5.4      1.8«     0.40    14.02



REPUBUC OF GlUINE
FO8RSTRY AND FUMERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MANAGEMENT OF FISHERIES
ProJecC Coote by Component end Nature
--..                           - -F.0.M1  1..lon-        ---US S.Millon--
190    1991   1992   1998   Total  Local Foreign   Total  LocQl Foreign  Totl
INSTI1I "lAL SUPT
ConstructIon                    B0000      O       O       *    _        40      40      80   0.07   o.o7   0.14
Vaeicles                        C2448      0       0       0  62448       8      se      62   O.00   0.08   0.09
Equlpment                       27224      0       a       0  27224       4      28      27   0.01   9.04   9.05
Salarles                         4212   4212   4212   4212  1684I        17       a      17   0.03   0.00   0.03
Tehnlal assistance             8U20  227929  18829   0888  71n240         0    71n    718   0.00   1.21   1.21
Operatlsg co"t                  22706  22706  2070B  17010  88130        17      O6      88   o.08   0.11   0.14
bs. Cost                       S29700 2S4888 158288  SW22 972890         80    892    978   0.14    1.51    1.68
VeYhiles                        S8m0       0       a   8899  17B80        1      17      18   0.00   0.03   O.D3
Equlp nt                        81972      0   2600  19924  84898         4      80      84   0.01    0.14   0.14
Salarles                        87447  84947  84947  84947 292288    292          O    292   9.59   9.90   0.60
Coneultante                     42489  81860       0       a  7084               71      71   0.00   0.12   0.12
Opertlng coste                 404916 404918 87S876 876878 1681684      4       828   1S82   1.24    1.40   2.60
Base Coet                      ""615 s21728 488828 489547 2287098   1031    9#    2027   1.75    1.B9   8.44
Equlpt                         15520      a       0   1779  17299        2      le      17   0.00   o.98    0.08
Techulcul nsstance             189688  189689  1896O8      0 892949       0    892    892   0.00   o.68    9.8B
Opratetn Costa                 15688  156889 156889 156889 827620        ce8    62    628   9.11   0.95    1.06
base Cost,                     89898  28,589 287690 15860 1B880          68    969   1087   0.11    1.64    1.76
TOTAL BS8 COST              188485 1904121  99121 870219 4088448   1179   2867   4088   2.00   4.84   6.84
Physlcal eontlngoncles         I9885   88780  89128  68818 288581        89    198    28t   9.16   9.84   0.49
Price cootlngti cls            147199 221999 292480 810787 971475    572    899    971   0.97   9.60    1.86
TOTAL PROJECT COST            1689589 1848869 1281789 1947824 5294454   1849   8454   5294   8.12   C.85    8.97
_ -= #= 3=3=3=  _ -==  =



REPBUC OF GUINE
FO98  end FISNERIES MNOEM    PROJECT
MANAGEMEN 0F FISHRES
Project Costs by  nsltliatton, Componeont and Flnanclng
-- - -(F C.0   ----- -Fnanc7ng Plan (F.O. 0)
S.E.P.  Taxes  Tax«    I.D.A. C.C.C.E.C.I.D.A.  COV'T   Taxes   Total
InSTITUTION BUILDING                           -    ---           --  --  -- -
Co4tructl«o                           10442   1#118  887S7       887S7                            15683 104420
Vebicles                               62100       0   6210B     62106                                    6210B
Equlp..t                               32628    869   82264      82204                              369   32828
Salarles                               24614   1226   28288      28288                             1226   24S14
Technteal  assistance                 8218         O  888                       821388                   821868
Operoatns coste                       110212   6611  104701    104701                              6S11  110212
Sui tot-a                            1155288  22789 1182474
Y hobcets                              228s2       0   22882     22682                                    2282       
Equipsnet                            104828        0  104829    104829                                   104829
Sa la.I.                              487892   21870  416522    415622                            21870  487892
Consultante                            77887       0   7787                      7787                     77n7
Operti e Co*te                       2218m    02061 188241    14n24l                    12610QO  820851 2218892
Sub total                           280882  842621 20180
RESEARCH
Equlpeent                              2087    2699   180 lem            lem                       2099   20987
T«hnlcal sestetance                   44082        6  440892            440892                           440392
Operatino Comt                        816961   81164  785777            785777                    81184  818081
Sub total                            127884   88208 1195057
TOTAL PROJECT  COST (F.Q.0&)         5294466 8406B8 4846892   1000840 1195067  8989ff 1261000 694868 6294466
TOTAL PROJECT  COST (US$ Uio.)          8.97    1.61    7.87      1.70    2.08    1.62     2.12    1.61    8.97
'n



REPUELIC OP GUIUEA
VOReSTRY AND FISHEIUS MIAGDEGET ?ROJBCT
DISBURSEHENT PROFUIE
lA nscM.                                     STAUDARD
YETAS lS8NE81ERS                           DI8BUSnEMZN
ESSIHATES           5 YTUA D!SSURISEMT PROFILE
(US $000)                  (US $000)
sTes  CVmL PERCEI.   CUgL                PERcm.                                   DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
1990!I      3K~ 398          5          80             1                    r
Si     s58    956     12          637             a
1991 Z      637   1593      20        1274            16
II     797   2390     30         2151            27
1992 I      797   3186      40        3186            40
I1     876   4062     51         4142            52
1993 1      797   4859      61        5098            64
II     796   5655     71         5894            74
1994 1      717   6372      80        6611            83            X *    4
il     717   7089     89         7089            89
1995 1      319   7407      93        7587            9S
Il     319   7726     97         7885            99
19ff I      239   7965    100         7965           100
,   *' A        ,    , 
o- I-   ,    ,    ,.      ~      -*1 ,   , . ,_,p--
1990! t   t t9t I    1N1t921   1119931   fI 94 t    fiIo"1    1119961
O3  ESimA1EIDA P19r*L YEA     t



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Ministre de l'Agriculture
et des Ressources Animales
Direction  Natioaed__| Direction des 
| Forêts et Chasse       |[esuc    FoncièresJ
Centre Forestier                                              jSecrétareat. Cté.
de Seredou             .                                      Flnance, Admin.
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
Foresterie                    Faune                         &mènagement                         Economie
Rurale                      Protection                         Forêts                          Législation
.~tma4on    .ol.   Cooservat.  C        vota r.        o       y v ou  r.   colm      Foncière o    ,
3[  A!tio~-| f i Con rn1041'                     ft"ro   l oelibntontel             v J    Sll   
; | VuIar1.atol h.re    lainet-m  Pxrc .tet                     asmo_nt      | Seh 11e  R.bo      F.r..tiôro   For ts I ZF.r.tôr.
I _   _  N titenrua L                    I Olroetitonn I l     _# |        J t  Fsyne  ; I         I~~~t



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORESTRY AND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Secrétariat d'Etat
a la Poche
Cabi net
|Direction Administrativel                             _       Inspection Générale 
I et Financière                        |                          ----des Pêches |
Direction Nationale de la Pêche et
de lVAquculture
Monitoring Contrôle1 I            ____ecrétariat Admin.1
et Surveillance j                                                     Financier 
O     w  R O    Divîison Pêc                                                       Division Ecudes
Phe    I            J |Aquaculture                           I                     let Coopération J
r.4X_                        triz 'P5    Aquaculture             SUIVI de | | Sagnmt          g     pfarz| 1
%i  Artisanal  Znduatrtc.l-    Socto    Fluiles                 Survol lancIdique
Mar;ti     dJariti..    Econouo aPch|_



REPtSLXC op oWuA
FORY AND FISERUS  ANAOEMfT PROJECT
MINJD FCsr
PRODUMCTIl. md OENEFITS
A. Sustalcable Annuel Volume Y.l Ide la Cuble Ibo.r  (Dioke mfd Zil.. foroet.)
(1)          (2)           (8)                         <4)
wIfTNU                    wInw PROJCT~        ~
PRJECr                                                               TICREMMAL
TOTAL                      DEFICIT(-)/
Excludtmg                  !ncr.ot.I  Prlc*/Cub.ll  BENFIT(+)
Sylvlcullur. Sylvlculture P0oduelon        (O.F.)      (O.FP 11)
1999        lm9              0             0         -lm9         27t60           -28
l1           l0            7780          1925          8706         27599           2a9
1992         10           1550            676t        20186         27600           664
1999         nuW          288ff         1996l         88280         27600          9oi s0
1994        lm          a8lle          177           4708B         2789           181
1996         1000         a89           177m           66UO         2759           lU0
1990         lmW          48879         mni           88428         27599          1744
1997         lm99         84440         17759         71199         2t700          1958
199l         19u9         8222          177w          I897          27600          2172
199          100w         7M            17750         88759         27SOO          2M88
200         1m           7_9           17719         80675         27599          2m88
2991         1000         lem           17750         86759         27600          2886
2002         lmo1         78M           1760         80675          275OO          2m8
2JO3          1000        70909         17759         00760         27599          2asa
2004         1m          7900          1779            7675        2796           28
2006         lmW         70             177ms         8075          27500         2t8
200$         lm00         701           17759         06750         27500          2886
2007         lmW          7             17mso         8B769         27600          28U
2018         1000         70WO          177m          8B7S          27S00          2886
2tl(«9       lOOO         709           177SO         8079          27M6           28
1. ActPuel roductèon nselly by lilei pitefflruhls ..tlmul.d et 1909 cuble met4s p.n.
2. Production  ltlhout Me effect oi .ylv culltrr
S. Production reultèlg fro. sylvloulu.r .xclut vly.
4. F.O.8.p-lc.(EExport voiw.)In Conakry for saowwod  ls  coste of Ioglng transporl,ond
»wing,r.ulIl la a oconomle slempage prlie of O.F. 27690 per cublc rater.



W Imuc eF «1ma          r
S- M)Zu                           ------ -
Jtl0~70 Sàd  t  lT8
A.   Lttem   ef FlRtIm R1!IF. (1)
Llct8  F...  )                                                           NE1
= _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7
000         am15                SM  PmT MOCtT- i
Ifts         6        0 0Mo <000    go   SM                                -  O              O
s9L          i0lm 3OW sr -                      -_
1990          8000    8     lm 28080  00 Mo                      00lm                        o
*992         IWO    800                                             _                  -o- -o   am00  Oo  nuD
1994          1000          lm *8000O    600  am0                            1800           76
3 9                         1                   3_0      600  am00           280           18i7
1997                        Mo00   800   1800   MW00    800  am00           2800          1857
mi9                         lm0    0            M 0      60   8600           230O          lm8
2=0           1000   800   180                   800          am 30          280           las?
2001          1000   -0   lm0                    8000   800   860              0           lm
000           lm0    300   *80                   MW0   800   am0             20            *85
200           lm0    Mo0   MO                   MW0      Mo0  am0            2800          la"7
2=0           1000   300   180                   300    600  360             280           135
200           *000   30    130                   300     6000 am            2M0            *85
ZOO           lm0    80    180                   MW0    60   a60             230O          lm8
3.  LOCAL XJOUTRIA  SROSIX7MO
Nef   AV  Adml    AI00ML  p.TIl <                        ~ *       454g4y  AIfLJA    e                Ton                  ,.4>    <oIn,
90  25    25       8         165 40625 lu12_                                      4         12500       8)  420    5.)8   -13«-7.)
1   go 8   2       4         1250    20.                           25    lu5      4          9278    420           89-.
go9  2    la       4         120       2             .8            25   12u       8          938       08.                      -1.1
198 225   5                   20    40              5.8            28    12       8Un7   420                       8.9          -1.3          -774
1994    25    125  8 ~     ~ 967O    420          8.9            25    2                   9862    420           6.8          -2.4            7749
*98 25    15       a          8250   420            2.6            25    25       a         1562     420           6.9          81.9          2724
1996  25   1la      2          Sm5    420            2.6            25   12       5          162      420           8.6           2.9          232*
1997    25   1lm    1          812    420            1.8            25    125      6           75     420           7.9.9                      882
199 25    lu8      1          615 401825                                  2                  68 8796687
199 225   5n                  am12    420           18             25    125      6         1875     420           79 s          6.9          862
0000    28    125a  1          8SM     420           1.8            25    *2       6         *88      420           7.9           4.5          387
201 25     2                  82                    1.             25      5      S         *73    420             7.9           80.           am7
0002    25    125  *      3125~~~a  420         1.8             <.   12                   08    420            7*.6.                      87
208 25    12        I          81     420            1.8                  128t                                                                am85  2  796687
005 25    12                  8125    420           1.8             5    15       6         *70 40798687
2005                               SM12    02 40         1. a5               15       6          88      420            7.9          *.6          807
207 25    1a                  am2    a2              .             25    la5      6          65      42.0          7.9           6.6          am7
2008    25    125  1    8125   ~~~~420D       1.8            25   15        *         150      420           7.9           6.6          37
2009  25    125  1        6125~~~S  420         1.8            25   12                   63      420           7.9           :.6,         367
(1>    Siliersl  kwiaIo  f... oc 199 1wa04 oê <187.0  ODI.0fi  YovUU f rm  £.L.C. U<gmuIog Aere~t.0T1«   Oe18aruuboî Ltcntn  4voje
are .iluaS4 cosiderag 1wo0,romaa1 <I-rmt lI mieatiIo. ,o.d    lama. of ft.410gu LIonne.. toa.i nlovd utadea. =            Iat4raI agr..aani..
I~of voosois .upecl.d     b. f lalini re9ol%U  b   dmnEcoi8   on.oZo
45   6h1-te prI. o  *     bn    g4prv         wi    Io...~ the      *rinan apC«I5  eo.*.le
(c.1.. CoaIrr~  .85for lcal          -ud >3fa v....la>



REPUOLC OF OUDWA
F99SRI    nMm  FISERIES MANAOEMLNT PROJECT
FORESTWY nd LAND RIOHTS
II 6trativ. Ooveromet Cab Flow(l)
(G.F. Million)
2W9
199J   1991  1992  1998   1994  199S  1990  1997  199l   1999  2e    2ee   2ee2  2a  2004  2665  200   267  268 -2m86
External Fin ncing: (2)
I.0.A. <Loen)              444      8   777   740    o^O   299   111
K.F.W. (Orant)             8e     S8U  O80   047    6B8   2S9    97
8eumpagr Fese                0     14    51   114    209   29e   887   418   4S9   469   459   469   469   465   459 4C         9   469   459 46   9  9P89
832   12M2  1607  1601   1457   8S1   U4S   418   469   4C9   459   469   459   4S9   459   469   469   469   4S9  9Mo9
OUTFLM
Incrus  tal (2)           904   1448  1087  I06   1446   648   241
Recurrnt1 1                                                                80 l0e    10   180   180       180   lu0   180    180   180   180   180   7800
D"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
D.b  Servion
IDA.    - Principal          a      o     o      a      a      o     o      a     o      o    74    74    74    74    74    74    74    74    74  MU8
- znler.t(8)       19     21    28    24       27    28    28    28    28    28    27    27    20    20    26    24    24    28    28   288
9M8   1407  1710  Wd3    1478   071   449   208   20   20S   281   281   280   280   279   278   278   277   277  740
NET FLOW:
Aanual                    -11   -204  -202  -129    -1S   10    90   210   261   251   178   17    17    179   180   181   101   182   182  2598
Cmsulative                -11   -85  -57  -007   -702  -522  -420  -210    88   28a   4t4   e42   821  131  1181  1861  1542  1724  190  44»9
(I)   Currnt f rom 1998 -1990 excpt for I.D.A. reinb4ruemnt  end Consunt thrnfatr
2)   Exclading Ta» e  ;Incleding Physieal end Pr1s c«ntingeocinn
à) Co.bin.d ComltmnC Charge of 6.5X p.a.on uneliburn d fendne,nd Interut Chare ot 0.76X p.*. on diburmed funds.



SRWLtC  oF SJE
F0 1  MWd FSERS MADAumB  PROJECT
FlIURIS8 KUMAoemT
Il ln.t_           so  Cn  Fiee (1)
(O.f. MIlII1.n)                                                          9
206
1996  1001  102  1M8  1904  1006  19        9     8 107  SM 0   _ 20   2   202M   2     24 2      06 M 0    207  2 -268
ExlU~S FI.encejr:(2)
C.C.C.E.  (I.nu)                148  21S  251   289  216   qa   se
ID  (L.n)                       120  10   210    20   160  se    8
C.I.D.A. (<O*")                 lU   182   180    180   162   72    27
IJuensie lun                      6 -2060 -160O    1 6aM-  lm   lm   21 28     2  0  28   28am       20   tau  28e 280   280   2306  280  2     4880M
871 -1448  -860   160i  1S67  2SU8  2898  20  2300 2806  2806  28002 2806  28oo 2306  2300  2800  200  2300448300
UTFL0
Iecr.neol (2)                   522   782  918    89  782 e4n   1U l
Remrrst                                                              228   226  2m    226  22S    22S   22S      22S   2  2   2   22C       22 225  4725    *
DNb  Servoe:
C.C.C.E.- Primclj.l                                                                           40    40    40    40   40    40   40    40   40   837
- Iubreot                 2    0      9     U    10   18   19    19   19    19   28    22   22   21    20    19    18    10   l  167
IDA.   - Prisclp*l                                                                            20    20    20   20   20    20    20    20    20  026
-Ilnt.r.st..Ch.rge.(8)    9    10   il    12   1U   S8   la   18   13   18             8     7    7      7    7      7     7     à     s    09
88 798  8J   094  812   879  387  267  267  2S7 815  814   814   818  812   811   310   809  806108
NEM FLOUWs
Anul                           -102 -2241 -1208    724  104   2109 2000  264 2U 4   2048  10051 0   1006  1907  108  1989 90 0   1991  12 41082
Cru 1t1v                       -102 -2408 -8000  -2982 -1017   2S2 220  48111 O44  8807 1872 12867 14844 10881 10819 20869 22290 24200 20282 87064
(1)  Curmnt f      9 9 eo1900-1M  «p  for Z.D.A. end C.C.C.E. P*I _Wmmo»n. ,M Coutnnt 0Io.mfttr
Iueldino Tox» glncludln  Phyn1enl ud Pri eo.i gue1.
Coblnd Cmiltmo Chup of 6.55 p.n.on undi.b.red  *uudsd lnJtr«t Cherp of O1.755 p.o. on dl*btàr.d fu«.
LA



AEIi8UC 0F cuGD
FDRESTRY *FW11 DfW PRT R
A) faE_u.l RaS .   aSera
s:mmm«c_                      199s 0SU  191   1999   1oa   294   199    1996  199    199   1999   9000  2         9O0    2000   004   9o    Sm06   9       9006  2009
|~~~~197    296 864 898                          9     181    49      4      40    46      48    46    4        46    4       4      49    48    4     4B8
*99    428   498    470   490   M29        70    1u    11      ne    116    1u    1l6   1i        1i    1U    1U    1i    l1         1u
Traloîno                        78    118    U87   U8l    lie    62 10                  90            20            20            go            20            20
887    8*6   074   999   88        81  UO9    1*4   186    14    184    184    186   16    18    164    16    14    18               £64
Raya..                         -2  239    M4   9U  U16   1830   1744  198   2172   288   90    26   23    230    90    20    9                       23     SM    96
-90    989    686   91O   1816   183   1744  1988  2179   2         23     26   23    2Mt  2s0   SM    28    210   23_ 2
E RIUg                        -3    -897   -90    -14   400   11m    16   1794   19    Z2   M?02  Z992   MI09  Z               9302   2       2202  22    9902   22
i_laRat .of faiorn.                         Z* .0 
Na Prao  Yaiua.<P. Wt..>             s        >   6201
fr:lch;ngyaki.aeloN           CO"                  *17«1
> SaoolUv        nIj
Ecor. Rai ot RaS"er v'X  0hg  ta Coai anO Sonafita
oe              -609   -      -la     OS  .90   .2
-M   86.08  80.72  40.48  41.87  49.9  48.24
-US0 84.06  J0.17  a0.90 40.06  42.44  42.78
OS  M.91 87.18  38.91 89.90 41.84  41.09
481  30.46  84.86  36.72 67.77 89.62 ae.90
.40   9.90  88.64 68.8  Jl.U4 89.44 80.fl
'00  27.78   2.91  84.1*   8.27 87.1  87.
<1) PoJ.o8m toutie . dlne Tam.. Md PrIse Conlaie
Cr%



W43 c L  OC OP
Fo7itY  ad FP78R181 NVABOT P0JET
FIF"IRt       Kn d =           I'R
i     toomal Aaly.si
A) booaltla Rate of %t.*
(P.C. Ni. . lm)
Umm amc        )       lmî 1  1991   sen2  sws8  194        ns 1996   1 99   1990    9        000  200s  9002  sacs  200n 20cs  socs  2007   20c   moe
zr,aultuiZo  bllldtag    111    1      S 198    18    187    t4    2S    2B    1e0    26    2B    78    28e    i8   SOD    -g-                 2S    2e      2B
Sur"l 1 Io«             2      849    42    887   au       lu      38    900    I0   200   100    200   100  2DO          100   200    100   200    10l  200
119   178   2t       1%    176    79  S0 SC0                          10                 100                  10S
462    69    8091 soe     m  9    39a   11U   828   200   226   9128   22S   128   828   2D00   22B    Zll   228    S26   828
E=OIIC _I1
Uic.... - foret n Fi    O  -lm8  -800    800    78    188    lm8   188    nu8  188    188    188   l8m    187   lm8   188   188    188    188   188
Lotl FlaMime           -774  -774  -774    774   184   28        2 837    SM    857           7    872   87    8S72  8a872   a2   a2   W2  3a7    SM
-774  -1947 -164  -184   21    8Z8  s80   asso  88    88   s828    89   sW2',  s822e   sii89   8220-  8i  is9   s828    SM29
NU i 1E              -18   -2647 -2178 ws    162  asn   8864 4904   OÎ5    80  a00    8004- s814   4904   8029   8                   i0       0F04  87l04   4904
E_oIe Rai.e f                       8un.    2.04 1
Nit Pr_mt Vale * tOU<F.0.Nlo.)«> 17087
SoXiobla  of Valu» Moeata              .8
_efita            -M
<B>Sojwli AMaly.l.
Rtco e.oRat. 0     n fetom  c p irn Coe end amef lni
Sinef lie
Coet.           -780  -80   SOS *.800  .S61000  .1
-7811  82.04 87.28  40.41  41.89  42.20  42.87
-281   19.88  27.98  84.47  87.28  88.76  89.74
0    M 18824.80  82.04 858.8  87.28  88.48
*1000    4.98  la.86  24-80 29.22  82 04 sa e9
*200S  -2.0Q   9.42  19s8s  24.60  27S9O   80.80
.8S0   -8.a0   4 .9  1S.8#  20.D 4  24.80  27.28
(S)   Proleci cdua cecludine Ta   e. nd Prie Contnouecl.
I.X
iM



UAP SECTION



IBRD 216S
/   MAURITANIA   i                                            ~              12'             \                                10§                        GUINEA
-  *\ -.,r---~    _.                                  S E N E G A L                                j                        FORESTRYAND FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SENEAL Y     MALI
BUR2NA M A t | 2 z  , ,z;n j à ;                                        SFOREST COVER
BSSA
|~~~~ 2IOR  TGMANA                  N.                                       ;                                                                           i1 c2 ci  s 
EA ~       ~ ~                 ML
`\\\\   kmRihtsRogsirion zones                              *      International Aisport                           et        ; vQ ,                                    .'  E  19..................... . 
W1      Drforstseemap 21599)                    a           =_                                                                                                      ~ , 
-CREGIONa
8'      3   Sawmoht.l Buh Sovnrah                            W< -          irdoaBwdrf                                                                                                            o+<J ;....
EZZ;   FAoDjoonU~Igyiorusd,upiandpIoieau)                                 KILOMETEWRS   2 0    4       æ 8,0 1           i   I B E   R      A 
~~  U~~~bt Foroit fo Tres Savannah~~~iscyot inmm
nd   tSwamps         n«                                      int -.`  7
ftWd                                                          R;g%u1crwa Set ooZ v >d meo eg  W       y
14'enwüoncd ooendabgesE 1989
Savmncyb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN b                                                                            19m8dtu



GUINEA
-1r?                 BISSAI    BISSAU                                                                                             MALI
Siguiri
1    Boké                                   Dabola
/    X  ~Kamsar                                                      Koroussa                           _
Mandiana
(   /  ° Boffa  o Kmdit              Faranah
Taborlah0
CONAKRY        Dubré
GU1NEA - q                CoXyh)Frcrt    
FORESTRY FISHERIES MGANEMENT                             -°. JaP 
PROJECT                             Bety
FISHERIES
.   i:Fisheries - High potential                                    SIERRA                     Guéck&dou
2Ox ..  lbobath (water depth) ln meter               ' FREETOWN    LEONE
Rlvers
0    Main towns
- 4           t 6ib Nationai capits                                            Iola                                                            r_
Internatonal boundaries                                                                                  N'zeréWé       1
._____________                                                                                                                            CÔ\ /Yomou  OTE
LIBERIA                        D'IVOIRE
C   \1  M^tt                           ~~~~~~~       ~~At/a ntic     N
8ISSAU  (L'i MAU
a »        /                          ~~~~~~~Ocean\\_
O            100          200 KILOMETE
4 )<~~~Dl'tWttE                     MZ  C 
<0    Ocean?    >ME                                                                                  sa 1
qD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14*                                                1?                            \ 10 't



\  1 T  MALI        7zoo0       X  )                  GUINEA
FORESTRY FISHERIES MANAGEMENT
+} 7soo                                         \"[ { ,[ ><) $ PROJECT
Dry Forest Cover        12x
y    1 /    Dry forests
Forests included in the
project
72C%2  t\sohyets in mm
-P~ TI\_ntemational boundaries
[ Dirpf                                 »=2) b ° = 400bk2 or 40,O00ha
K \  \   t  /   j//    lankan  3Md
J   IVOI I     LEs OaraNah E              Kiss(dou               To                    A     COTE
£  /t s  a    R          (   g                  t                         S 3~~~~~~~~'IVOIRE
} Comk ~~SIERRA i  n
T  .4t,,wt,'-  ULEONE                                                       Kerouan



