Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2068 GUI
            (Forestry and Fisheries Management Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 9, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2068 GUI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November  9,  1989,  between the REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan  (the CCCE Loan) in an amount
equivalent to US$2,000,000 to  assist  in  financing Part C of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
CCCE Loan Agreement) to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
CCCE;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  Canadian
Page  2
International Development Agency (CIDA)  a  grant (the CIDA Grant)
in an amount of US$1,500,000 to  assist in financing Part C of the
Project on terms and  conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (the
CIDA Grant Agreement) to be  entered into between the Borrower and
CIDA;
     (D)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent
to 10,000,000 Deutsche Mark to  assist  in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
KfW Grant Agreement) to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
KfW; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to  extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated February 29, 1988 and May 27, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (c)  "DNFC" means Direction  Nationale  des  Forets  et de la
Chasse;
     (d)  "DRF" means the Land Division within MARA;
     (e)  "MARA"  means  the  Ministere  de  l'Agriculture  et des
Ressources Animales;
     (f)  "SEP" means Secretariat d'Etat a la Peche;
     (g)  "Fiscal  Year"  means  the   period   of  January  1  to
December 31;
     (h)  "Forestry Zone" means the area formed by the prefectures
of Lola, Macenta, Nzerekore, Beyla and Yomou; and
     (i)  "Gf" means Guinean franc, the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to six million  three  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  two  special accounts (the Forestry
Special Account and the  Fisheries  Special  Account) in a bank on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing  April  1,  2000,  and  ending  October  1,  2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Page  4
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to  time  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
financial and technical practices,  and shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) Without  any limitation or restriction upon
any of its obligations under  Section  3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower:
          (i)  shall open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
               the  Association,  and  thereafter  maintain  three
               Project Accounts in  a  commercial  bank in Conakry
               for payment  of  expenditures  for  the Project not
               financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
         (ii)  shall  make  into  such  Project  Accounts  initial
               deposits  of  Gf  80  million  for  Part  A  of the
               Project, Gf 10 million  for  Part  B of the Project
               and Gf 125 million for Part C of the Project.
     (b)  In addition to said initial deposits, the Borrower shall
replenish quarterly the Project  Accounts in amounts estimated, on
the basis of the budgets referred  to  in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement, to be necessary  to  permit timely and efficient execu-
tion of the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause DNFC, SEP and DRF to:
     (a)  not later than  June  30,  1990,  design  and set up, on
terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Association, Management
Information Systems designed to record Project activities;
     (b)  not later than November  1  of  each year the Project is
carried out, submit  to  the  Association  for review and comments
budgets and work  plans  for  their  respective operations for the
following year; and
     (c)  not later than  June  30  of  each  year  the Project is
carried out, submit  to  the  Association  for review and comments
evaluations of Project activities for the previous year.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall,  in consultation with the
Association, carry out a mid-term review of the Project and there-
Page  5
after submit to the Association a report of said review.
     Section 3.06. In order to  carry  out  Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall prepare  a  system,  acceptable to the Associa-
tion, for the attribution of  fishing licenses to the domestic and
foreign fishing  fleet,  and  for  assessing  fees  and  rates for
fishing  rights,  and  for  management  of  the  revenues  of such
licenses.
     Section 3.07. In order to  carry  out Part C.2 of the Project
the Borrower shall cause SEP to:
     (a)  make  arrangements   with   the   Borrower's   navy  for
transportation of SEP's fisheries inspectors to fishing vessels at
sea; and
     (b)  engage a private  air  charter  service  under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Accounts for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
Page  6
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that:
          (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                     Borrower for  the  financing  of  the Project
                     shall  have  been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                     terminated in whole  or  in part, pursuant to
                     the   terms   of   the   agreement  providing
                     therefor, or
                (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due and
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
               tions  consistent  with   the  obligations  of  the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional  event is specified, that the
event specified in  paragraph  (i)  (B)  of  Section  5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (ii) of
that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Economy  and  Finance  is  designated  as  representative  of  the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
          B.P. 579
          Conakry, Republic of Guinea
                                              Telex:
Page  7
                                                 22399 MIFI
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2033
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                          By /s/ Kekoura Camara
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  For Part A of                               100%
     the Project:
     (a)  Civil works              450,000
     (b)  Vehicles and             660,000
          equipment
     (c)  Consultants'           1,680,000
          services
(2)  For Part B of
     the Project:
     (a)  Civil works              140,000)
                                          )
     (b)  Vehicles and             230,000)      100%
Page  8
          equipment                       )
                                          )
     (c)  Consultants'             500,000)
          services                       )
     (d)  Incremental             450,000        95%
          Operating Costs
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  For Part C of
     the Project:
     (a)  Civil works              120,000)
                                          )     100%
     (b)  Vehicles                 290,000)
     (c)  Incremental              840,000      38% in the First
          Operating Costs                       Year
                                                27% in the Second
                                                Year
                                                13% in the Third
                                                Year
                                                6% in the Fourth
                                                Year
(4)  Refunding of                  390,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                   550,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   6,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the   term    "Incremental    Operating   Costs"   means
expenditures for  current  expenses  such  as  staff  salaries for
fisheries  observers,  lubricants   and   fuel  for  cars,  office
supplies, travel expenses  and  maintenance of buildings, vehicles
and equipment, required for the Project;
     (b)  "First Year", "Second  Year"  and  "Third Year" mean the
respective  twelve-months  periods  during  which  the  Project is
carried out, starting  on  the  Effective  Date  and the first and
second anniversary of said Effective Date, respectively; and
     (c)  "Fourth Year"  means  the  period  after  the Third Year
during which the Project is carried out.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payment made for expenditures prior  to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments for expenditures to  be  financed from the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated to Category 1 unless:
          (i)  all conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
               the KfW Grant Agreement have been fulfilled;
         (ii)  the Borrower had engaged  consultants for Part A of
               the Project;
Page  9
        (iii)  the   Project   Account   referred   to   in   Sec-
               tion 3.03 (a) (i)  has  been opened and the initial
               deposit referred to  in  Section  3.03 (a) (ii) for
               Part A of the Project has been made; and
         (iv)  the Borrower has submitted to the Association legal
               instruments satisfactory to the Association for the
               restructuring of  DNFC,  the  Forest Departments in
               the  Forestry  Zone  and  the  Forestry  Center  at
               Seredou.
     (c)  payments for expenditures to  be  financed from the pro-
ceeds of the Credit  allocated  to  Category  2 unless the Project
Account referred to in Section  3.03  (a)  (i) has been opened and
the initial deposit  referred  to  in  Section  3.03  (a) (ii) for
Part B of the Project has been made; and
     (d)  payments  for  expenditures  to  be  financed  from  the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category 3 unless:
          (i)  all conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
               the  CCCE  Loan   Agreement   and  the  CIDA  Grant
               Agreement have been fulfilled;
         (ii)  the Borrower has published  in the Official Journal
               a revision of the Fishing Code, satisfactory to the
               Association,  which  will,   inter  alia,  prohibit
               payments other than in cash for fishing licenses;
        (iii)  the   Project   Account   referred   to   in   Sec-
               tion 3.03 (a) (i)  has  been opened and the initial
               deposit referred to  in  Section  3.03 (a) (ii) for
               Part C of the Project has been made;
         (iv)  SEP  has  made  the  arrangements  and  engaged the
               services  referred  to  in  Section  3.07  of  this
               Agreement;
          (v)  the Borrower has  submitted  to the Association the
               system referred to in  Section  3.06 of this Agree-
               ment together with  implementation plans for fiscal
               year 1990; and
         (vi)  the Borrower has submitted to the Association legal
               instruments,  acceptable  to  the  Association  for
               restructuring the SEP.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to protect and manage the
Borrower's forestry and  fisheries  resources, including improving
land tenure  arrangements,  on  a  pilot  basis,  of  its forestry
regions.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Forestry
1.   Preparation and implementation  of  financial, management and
accounting systems for DNFC in Conakry  and its field units in the
Forest Zone.
2.   Preparation  and  implementation  of  work  plans,  including
prefectoral forestry action plans for DNFC.
Page  10
3.   Study  tours  abroad  and  training  and  retraining  at  the
Forestry Faculty in Faranah of  about eighty forestry and agronomy
graduates employed in DNFC and the Forestry Departments, including
rehabilitation of teaching facilities  at  the Forestry Faculty at
Faranah.
4.   Preparation and implementation  of  management  plans for the
Ziama  and  Diecke  Forestry  Reserves,  including  demarcation of
Reserve boundaries, construction of  roads, establishment of about
eleven forestry  posts,  stand  improvement,  enrichment planting,
reforestation and provision of agro-forestry extension services.
5.   Reestablishment of offices and  provision of office equipment
for the Forestry Center at Seredou.
6.   Preparation and implementation  of  management  plans for dry
forests in the  prefectures  of  Dinguiraye  and  Dabola and other
area,  including  construction  of  roads,  demarcation  of forest
boundaries,  declaring   these   forests   protected   areas,  and
establishment of  about  eleven  forestry  posts  in  the villages
adjacent to said forests.
7.   Provision  of   vehicles,   equipment   and  improved  office
facilities.
Part B:   Land Rights Pilot Scheme
1.   Strengthening DRF through the  provision  of training for its
staff, office equipment, vehicles, incremental operating costs and
improved office facilities.
2.   Carrying out an inventory and  registration of land rights in
selected areas.
3.   Analysis of the  results  of  the  inventory and registration
activities under Part  B.2  of  the  Project  and preparation of a
study on their legal  implication  for the land tenure legislation
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Fisheries
1.   Preparation  and  execution   of  annual  offshore  fisheries
management plans, including  monitoring,  control and surveillance
of foreign and domestic fishing  fleets and the Borrower's fishing
resources.
2.   Development of procedures  for  inspection  and monitoring of
offshore fishing by SEP.
3.   Classroom and on-the-job training  of SEP's staff in offshore
fisheries management.
4.   Improvement of office facilities for SEP, including provision
of office equipment.
5.   Reviewing and updating  the  Borrower's fisheries legislation
and fish pricing, licensing and taxation systems.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
Page  11
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost between the equivalents
of $50,000 and $150,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods or works estimated to  cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000 may  be  procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three  reputable  suppliers  or  contractors  eligible  under  the
Guidelines,  in  accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for  such  contract  are  to  be  made  out  of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  a  Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The  provisions  of   the  preceding  subparagraphs  (a)
and (b) shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account of which the
Association has  authorized  withdrawals  from  the Credit Account
on the basis of  statements  of  expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  forestry, land management and fisheries
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
Page  12
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) for  the  Forestry  Special  Account  and  Category  3 for the
Fisheries Special Account set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$150,000 for the  Forestry  Special  Account  and $200,000 for the
Fisheries Special Account to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a  Special  Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
Page  13
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project shall equal the equivalent  of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account:  (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice
from the  Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as
the Association may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into that Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into that  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
