Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2087-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED.LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 13, 1977
This document has a restricted dlstribution and may be used by re^lpients only in the performance of
their officlia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency unit  = Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1           = M$2.52
M$l            = US$0.39
M$l million    = US$389,000
t The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this
report is indicated above.
ABBREVIATIONS
DID  - Drainage and Irrigation Department
GDP -   Gross Domestic Product
ha   - hectare
O&M  - Operation and Maintenance
SMP  -  Second Malaysia Plan
TMP  -  Third Malaysia Plan
GOVERNMENT OF tALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Malaysia
Amount:           US$39.0 million
Terms:            17 years, including three and a half (3-1/2) years of grace,
with interest at 8.2% per annum.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would improve the productivity and
incomes of over 60,000 paddy smallholders through the
construction and rehabilitation of approximately 195 small
irrigation schemes. The project would also include procure-
ment of equipment needed to maintain the completed schemes,
training and technical assistance, and a consultant feasi-
bility study of the proposed Rompin/Endau irrigation and
land settlement project.
Estimated                                             Local    Foreign   Total
Costs:                                               ---- (US$ million) ----
Construction program                 35.3      24.8     60.1
Operation & maintenance equipment     0.1       2.1      2.2
Technical assistance                  -         0.4      0.4
Training                               -        0.1      0.1
Rompin/Endau study                    0.1       0.7      0.8
Base cost estimate                  35.5       28.1     63.6
Physical contingencies                5.2       4.0      9.2
Expected price increases              9.3       6.9     16.2
Total project cost                 50.0      39.0     89.0
Estimated
Disbursements:          Fiscal years            Annual          Cumulative
(Jily 1-June 30)      Disbursements      Disbursements
-------- (US$ million) --------
1978                 0.4               0.4
1979                 5.6                6.0
1980                11.6               17.6
1981                11.9              29.5
3982                 7.7               37.2
1983                 1.8               39.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Procurement
Arrangements:   All civil works financed by the Bank will be carried out
under contracts awarded after competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Bank financed equipment and vehicles will
be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Small off-the-shelf
items, costing less than US$20,000 each and limited to a
total of US$500,000 would be procured through normal govern-
ment procedures. The Bank Group Guidelines would also be
used for technical assistance and consulting services.
Rate of Return:   23%.
Consultants:      To study the proposed Rompin/Endau irrigation and land
settlement project.
Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 1523-A, dated May 13, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$39.0 million to help finance the National
Small-Scale Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including three and a half (3-1/2) years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest econormic report, "Malaysia:  Second Plan Performance and
Third Plan Issues," (No. 1177a-MA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on September 20, 1976. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown in
Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past and,
in particular, during the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP) (1971-75). The per capita
income of US$720 (in 1975) is among the highest in Southeast Asia. Public and
private investment activity has been stepped up and, as a result, economic
growth, which during the 1960s averaged 6% a year, increased during the SMP to
7.5%. Progress has been made in reducing the economy's dependence on rubber,
and the manufacturing sector has performed well, both in terms of output and
employment. With a high export component in GNP, the country is very vulner-
able to external fluctuations, which were significant during the SMP. During
the Second Plan the proportion of agricultural households in poverty in
Peninsular Malaysia was reduced from 68% to 63%. In addition, in spite of
the increased investment activity and resulting current account deficits in
the balance of payments, during the SMP Malaysia managed to maintain a strong
external position with relatively low debt service payments and growing inter-
national reserves.
4.        Notwithstanding this good performance during the SMP there are still
substantial racial inequalities in income and employment, as well as consider-
able poverty; 44% of the population is considered to be in poverty. In 1970
in Peninsular Malaysia the per capita income among Malays, who constitute a
little over half of the population, was only half that of the Chinese and 60%
of that of the Indians who, together, make up most of the remainder of the
population. This inferior income position of the Malays is related to the
concentration of Malays in traditional smallholder agriculture and the com-
plementary meager ownership of corporate assets and poor representation of
Malays in the modern industrial sector, especially in managerial, professional,
supervisory and clerical occupations. These inequalities have threatened the
stability of the country and prompted the Government in 1971 to introduce the
New Economic Policy. The New Economic Policy is designed to achieve national
unity through the two-pronged objective of eradicating poverty and restruc-
turing society to eliminate the identification of race with economic function.



- 2 -
5.        The Government recently approved the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP)
(1976-80).  In addition to reconfirming the goals of the New Economic Policy,
the TMP stresses that national unity as well as social and economic progress
can only be achieved in an environment of security and order. The major
objectives of the TMP are: (a) to reduce the overall incidence of poverty
from 44% in 1975 to 34% by 1980 (which would mean reducing poverty in the
agriculture sector from 63% to 49%); (b) to increase Malay employment in the
modern sectors of the economy (from the 1975 Malay share of employment in
these sectors of 32% towards a goal of 50%); (c) to increase the share
of Malays in the equity ownership of the corporate sector (from the 1975
Malay share of 8% to 16% in 1980); and (d) to promote the participation of
Chinese and Indian Malaysians in agriculture and services.
6.        One of the principal means set out in the TMP to reduce poverty is to
raise agricultural production. In the Third Plan one quarter (M$4.7 billion)
of total development expenditures is allocated to this sector (compared with
22% or M$2.1 billion in the SMP). Of this more than one third will be spent
on increasing productivity in existing agricultural areas. In addition, one
million acres of new land are targeted for development. As a means of
reducing poverty, the TMP also provides for improving housing (M$2.5 billion)
and other essential services for the poor in both rural and urban areas. The
TMP also stresses that greater attention will be given to improving the less
developed states in Malaysia.
7.        The TMP goals are set out in a framework of substantial economic
growth.  The target growth rate for GDP is set at 8.5% per annum.    The
investment rate, in real terms, is projected to increase from 18% to 19.5% of
GDP, resulting in an investment of M$44 billion, in current prices, over the
TMP period.  Public development expenditures are set at M$18.6 billion and a
higher level of M$20 billion is targeted if resources become available.
8.        An examination of the external circumstances likely to prevail
during the Third Plan suggests that Malaysia can pursue an ambitious invest-
ment and growth strategy. With the likelihood of an improvement in the terms
of trade and an increase in oil production, Malaysia's external capital
requirements should not exceed US$1.4 billion during the period. To support
the development program, about half of this inflow would need to be loans to
the public sector. If project loans from multilateral sources (IBRD and ADB)
remain at approximately current levels, there will need to be an increase in
assistance from bilateral sources such as Japan and the OPEC countries, as
well as higher levels of market borrowing.
9.        Debt service obligations at present are about 3.2% of exports of
goods and nonfactor services and by 1980 should not rise beyond 6%. This
level is well within Malaysia's debt servicing capacity.    Disbursed Bank
loans outstanding represent about 22% of Malaysia's total external public
debt outstanding and disbursed. The Bank's share in Malaysia's debt service
payments is about 21% and is expected to drop to about 14% by 1980.
10.       In general, Malaysia can reasonably expect to be able to raise
sufficient resources during the next five years to continue a high growth and
socially oriented development strategy. In the public sector, the main focus



will have to be on the rural sector, especially on improving productivity on
existing farms where most of the poor'live. In the private sector, a con-
tinued high level of investment will be important in increasing Malay partici-
pation in industry. While there has been some apprehension by the Chinese and
to some extent the foreign community over the Government's efforts to raise
the participation of Malays in the modern sectors, the Government is concerned
by this reaction and it is taking steps to address non-Malay complaints in
order to encourage a high rate of private investment. With a recovery in
private investment, Malaysia should register a strong economic performance
during the Third Plan, including a more than 8.5% growth rate, enabling
considerable progress toward achieving the goals of the New Economic Policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
11.       The Bank has made 35 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads and urban transport.
This project will be implemented by Malaysia's Department of Drainage and
Irrigation (DID) in the Ministry of Agriculture. DID has successfully
completed on schedule and at the estimated original costs two large Bank
irrigation projects (Loans 434- and 5;00-MA) and is currently implementing
the major drainage and irrigation components of two other Bank projects
(Loans 973- and 1294-MA).
12.       Although in a few cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of March 31, 1977, the loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to
US$668.2 million. In addition, the Bank made a loan in 1965 to the Public
Utilities Board of Singapore (Loan 405-MA), guaranteed by Malaysia, to
finance the Johore River Project. The amount held by the Bank under that
loan, as of March 31, 1977, was US$4.0 million. Twelve loans have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank assistance to Malaysia is consistent with and supports the
country's policies to eliminate racial and geographical imbalances in income
distribution. The Bank will continue to provide assistance to Malaysia's
agricultural programs - including land development, rehabilitation and settle-
ment, and improvement of production in low income farming areas - which are
effective means of reducing unemployment and income disparities. We will also
continue to assist in financing infrastructure development, including urban
services and housing for the poor and transport projects that improve producer
and market links. The Bank has helped the Government to prepare projects in
the course of its lending operations and its sector work and has also helped
to strengthen public agencies responsible for carrying out important parts of
Malaysia's development program. We will continue this policy, which will be
reflected in the loans to be presented to the Executive Directors in the next
few years. These loans would be for projects involving agricultural extension,
irrigation, rural development, land settlement, development finance companies,
education, and in some infrastructure sectors including transport and power.



-4-
14.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million. The total commitments under the investments
held by IFC as of March 31, 1977 amounted to US$1.65 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
An Overview
15.       About 50% of the land in Peninsular Malaysia suitable for cultiva-
tion is being used, providing ample opportunities for further land development.
Most of this land is under three crops: rubber (61%); paddy (14%); and oil
palm (10%). In the two Borneo states of Sabah and Sarawak, where rubber is
also predominant, only 10-20% of the land suitable for cultivation is being
farmed. Malaysia's agricultural sector is largely oriented to world export
markets and occupies a predominant position in international trade in natural
rubber, palm oil, hardwood, and pepper. Agricultural commodities, including
wood products, account for upwards of 60% of the country's exports and about
30% of GNP.
16.       During the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80) agricultural production is
targeted to grow by about 7% per annum, compared to 5.6% during the last Plan
(1971-75). Export demand will continue to be the major growth determinant,
although the influence of exports relative to domestic demand will decline as
private consumption and the domestic processing of agricultural products
increases. Agriculture will continue to be the largest source of employment
providing about 17% of total new employment.   The sector also accounts for the
largest number of poor households; an average of 63% of the farm households in
Peninsular Malaysia are in poverty, with the incidence of poverty rising as
high as 77% among the paddy farmers. One of the Government's basic policy
objectives is to help eradicate poverty by raising income levels and increising
employment opportunities through programs aimed at productivity increases on
existing smallholdings.
17.       During the Third Plan, the Government will continue to give high
priority to incizasing rice production, principally by increasing double-
cropping.  In addition to raising farm inconi.   it is the ' vernment's policy
to achieve self-sufficiency in rice production.   With most of its arable land
and much of its labor force devoted to the production of tree crops and
forest products, Malaysia has long been a rice importer, although the gap
between rice consumption and domestic production has narrowed significantly
in recent years, principally because of an imp 'ssive large-   ale irrigation
development program.
Irrigation Development in Malaysia
18.       In Peninsular Malaysia, rice produrtion is largely confined to
irrigated areas situated in the coastal plaj ;, among which are the project
areas of Muda (Loan 434-MA), Kemubu (Loan 5( -MA), and North Kelantan (Loan
1294-MA), accounting for 44%, 5%, and 2% rr-sp ~tively of the Peninsula's rice
production.  The first two sch [es have been very successful, with an average
economic rate of return in ex:     of 15%; the expected rate of return of the
North Kelantan project is ovc- 2.5%. The Banl.-^r~Ωsted sclhemes account for the
bulk of Malaysia's rnèrketable rice.  Nevertheles-, despite the fact that 57,



- 5 -
of Peninsular Malaysia's paddy land is now double-cropped, an average of 11%
of the Peninsula's rice requirements, or about 140,000 tons per annum, have
been imported in recent years.      1
19.       Irrigation development in Sabah and Sarawak is a comparatively
recent phenomenon. Only 12% of Sabah's paddy lands are now double-cropped,
and no paddy land in Sarawak is reliably double-cropped. As a result, 38% of
Sabah's and 43% of Sarawak's rice requirements, or a total of about 110,000
tons per annum, have been Lmported in recent years.
20.       Although the main thrust of Malaysian irrigation development has
been the provision of irrigation systems in traditional rainfed paddy areas,
the Government has undertaken projects to develop previously unused land for
paddy production. At present, the only area on the Peninsula considered
feasible for large-scale new land development for irrigation is the Rompin/
Endau area of Pahang State.  Considerable potential, however, exists for
development of new small-scale schemes in both Peninsular Malaysia and the
Borneo states, and some larger areas, in the Borneo states will warrant
further investigation as local populations increase. In addition, a consid-
erable amount of new land has been and will continue to be developed for
paddy production on the margins of existing large and small systems.
Small-Scale Irrigation
21.       Small irrigation schemes currently serve about 83,000 ha of paddy
land in Peninsular Malaysia, which is 28% of the total irrigated area maintained
by the Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) and about 23% of the total
area of wet paddy land harvested in the main (wet) season. In Sabah, 20,000
ha are served by small schemes, representing over 60% of the main-season wet
paddy crop area. A completely different situation prevails in Sarawak, where
only 800 ha of paddy land are served by reliable irrigation systems, representing
less than 2% of the main-season wet paddy crop area. In the Borneo states and
in Johore, Melaka, Negeri Sembilan, and Pahang, small schemes represent the
only form of irrigation development,; while they are the predominant form in
Trengganu and Perlis. The total production of small schemes in Peninsular
Malaysia is approximately 165,000 tons of milled rice (14% of total production),
while in Sabah and Sarawak small schemes produce about 43,000 tons (60% of the
state's total production) and 2,000 tons (2% of total production) respectively.
Types of Small Schemes
22.       The types of small irrigation schemes constructed in various areas
have been dictated by a combination of ecological, engineering, social, and
economic factors. Because of the relatively high costs of ground water
development and the high consumption of water in paddy production relative to
the value of the crop, irrigation in Malaysia is totally dependent on surface
water sources. In the smaller paddy areas, irrigation has typically begun with
the construction by farmers of rudimentary systems consisting of brushwood
dams and earth channels, in the hope of assuring a reliable wet-season crop
under conditions of wide annual and 'monthly variations in rainfall. These
systems rarely provide any dry-season irrigation, are regularly destroyed
by floods each rainy season, and provide only partial and unreliable service
when they do function. To improve conditions of paddy production in these
areas, DID has constructed permanent systems of the following types.



(a) Gravity Schemes are the predominant type, selected when the
source stream is relatively small, thereby allowing the construc-
tion of an inexpensive reinforced concrete gated headworks across
the stream to divert the water to the water conveyance system. The
rest of the system typically consists of ancillary structures,
drains, flood protection and tidal bunds, and tidal control gates
as local conditions dictate. This type of system can serve both
wet- and dry-season crops.
(b) Pumping Schemes are, after gravity schemes, the next most common
type. The choice between gravity and pumping headworks is mainly
based on economic considerations. On large rivers, pumping plants
on the river bank are less expensive than gravity headworks across
the river. If the water supply is critical, gravity headworks have
an advantage in tbat they can divert virtually all the water in the
stream. Therefore, both from the standpoint of economics and of
water control, pumping schemes are used on relatively large rivers.
The rest of the system is similar to gravity schemes. This type of
system can serve both the wet- and dry-season crops.
(c) Controlled Drainage is a relatively inexpensive system built on
flat gradient flood plains along the coast. Rainwater is stored as
needed on the fields and in the drains by a system of bunds, drains,
controls and gates. Excess water is drained out during low tide.
Sea water intrusion is prevented by the bunds and closed gates
during high tide. Total water management is not as good as in a
pump or gravity scheme and only one wet-season crop is normally
grown in these areas.
(d) Inundation schemes have been constructed in the rugged interior
portions of the state of Pahang. They are used in the steep upland
valleys and are similar to controlled drainage schemes in that
they store rainwater on the fields and are a one-crop wet season
system. They are composed of a series of low dams 2 to 3 meters
high, straddling the valley stream, and gated outlets to the stream.
Water backs up behind each dam, and when the water level reaches the
upper end, that area is cultivated and planted. The water is
gradually released from behind the dam and successive, lower areas
are planted. Potential paddy yields are low in this type of
system, but are usually high enough to justify the very small
investment costs.
Organization and Management
23.       The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) in the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for development of small irrigation sclhemes
throughout Malaysia. The federal Government is responsible for financing the
capital costs of all substantial civil works in the drainage and irrigation
field, and the federal DID exercises technical supervision and control, of DID
works throughout the country. Although the development expenditure financed
by the states is negligible, about 90% of all operation and maintenance costs,
including the salaries of most state-level staff, are financed by the states.



-7-
DID staff is divided between headquarters units and state DID departments
under the direction of state DID directors. State DID directors are adminis-
tratively responsible to their respective state governments, and technically
responsible to the Director General of DID and his staff in Kuala Lumpur.
All state-level professional staff are on secondment from federal DID and are
transferable subject to the prerogative of the Director General.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
24.       The project was identified and prepared by the Drainage and Irri-
gation Department with the assistance of the Economics and Statistics Branch
of the Ministry of Agriculture. A similar, although much smaller, program is
being implemented under the recent North Kelantan Rural Development Project
(Loan 1294-MA). The project was appraised by the Bank in October 1976, and
loan negotiations were completed in May 1977. (See Annex III.)
Description
25.       The project would improve the productivity and incomes of over
60,000 paddy smallholders throughout Malaysia through the construction and
rehabilitation of approximately 195 small irrigation schemes, ranging in
size between 50 and 2,000 ha of net irrigable paddy land. The average capital
cost of the works proposed under the project is US$1,100/ha or about US$970/
family. The project would also include procurement by DID of equipment needed
to maintain the completed schemes, training of DID staff and technical assist-
ance for the agency, and a consultant feasibility study of the proposed
Rompin/Endau irrigation and land settlement project. The components of the
project are summarized below.
26.       Construction Program.   The major project component would consist of
a small irrigation scheme construction program extending over the five-year
project period. The construction program is based on proposals and cost estimates
for 206 individual schemes prepared by the state DIDs on the basis of preliminary
surveys and layouts, which were then checked by the federal DID and reduced in
number to the current list of 195 schemes. Schemes would be accepted for reim-
bursement under the Loan only after a full preparation and evaluation process
demonstrates that each scheme is economically viable (see para 36).
27.       The proposed schemes would irrigate a total of about 54,000 net
ha of paddy, 77% of which is now cropped on the basis of rainfall, natural
inundation, or primitive or obsolete facilities which require rehabilitation
and upgrading.
28.       Analysis of subproject proposals indicates that 50% of the schemes
would be supplied by gravity diversion headworks and 35% by pumping plants,
while 9% would be of the controlled drainage type (all located in Sarawak and
Trengganu) and 6% (all in Pahang) would be inundation schemes.
29.       Operation and Maintenance Equipment.   Vehicles, portable pumps,
excavation and earth-moving and other equipment would be purchased under the
project to improve the capability of state DID departments to operate and



- 8 -
maintain completed small schemes. The equipment would be allocated to state
and district units according to the operation and maintenance (O&M) require-
ments of completed schemes. The state DID departments operate equipment
maintenance shops and yards in districts with extensive irrigation facilities
and near state capitals, and federal DID operates a central maintenance shop
in Ipoh where heavy equipment is repaired and parts are fabricated.
30.       Technical Assistance and Training.   The state and federal DIDs have
had considerable experience in the planning, design, construction and operation
of irrigation and drainage systems and have built up a cadre of well-trained
technical staff. The Government has recognized, however, that technical
assistance and overseas training would be useful in broadening DID's capabili-
ties in planning and design, in introducing new ideas from other countries,
in codifying existing procedures, and in assisting DID in upgrading the standard
of operation and maintenance for all its systems. Therefore, technical assist-
ance for DID and overseas training for the agency's staff would be provided
under the project. The technical assistance component would include engagement
of three advisors for a total of about 85 man-months with costs of US$5,000
per man-month. The advisors would assist the agency in the upgrading and
documentation of procedures for engineering design and planning, operation,
maintenance, and monitoring of irrigation schemes. Assurances were obtained
that the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
of the advisors would be satisfactory to the Bank. (See section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement.) The training component would include intermediate-
term study tours with irrigation agencies in developed countries for eight
DID staff. These tours, which would total about 48 man-months, would provide
theoretical and on-the-job training in design, operation, and maintenance of
irrigation systems.
31.       Rompin/Endau Feasibility Study.   A consultant feasibility study of
the proposed Rompin/Endau irrigation and land settlement project would be
included in the project. The Rompin/Endau area in Pahang state comprises a
gross area of 47,000 ha, nearly all of which is virgin swamp jungle. Topo-
graphic and preliminary soils surveys have indicated that almost 16,000 ha of
this area are suitable for paddy cultivation. Preliminary assessments indi-
cate that water resources in the area would support this level of development;
however, physical development of these resources is subject to the availa-
bility of a large paddy farming community which must be progressively estab-
lished by immigrating settlers from other regions of the country in phase
with infrastructure development. The study would begin with the collection
of data on relevant factors; proceed through the examination of various
alternative development strategies for the area and a preliminary design and
layout of irrigation and drainage systems, road networks, and settlements;
and finally, develop a thorough economic analysis of the costs and benefits
of the recommended approach. The study is expected to require 100 man-months
of international professional consultant services over an 18-month period
with costs of US$6,900/man-month. Assurances were obtained that consultants
would be engaged for the study whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. (See section 3.02
of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Coordination and Implementation
32.       All project works would be implemented by state drainage and irriga-
tion departments under the technical control of the federal Drainage and
Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. A senior engineer would



- 9 -
be appointed as Project Coordinator in the federal headquarters of DID to
manage the project. He would be responsible for programming and supervising
the preparation of subprojects, evaluation, and implementation as well as
overall administration of budgeting,: procurement, disbursement, record-
keeping, and reporting matters related to project implementation. He will
be assisted by a small administrative staff. The Government has already
designated a suitably qualified and experienced Project Coordinator. His
appointment would be a condition of 'effectiveness of the proposed Loan. (See
section 5.01 of the draft 'Loan Agreement.)
33.       The state DID directors would be responsible for initial project
preparation and evaluation, including hydrological information, and for even-
tual construction, operation, and maintenance of the schemes. The assistance
of other state-level agricultural agencies would, however, be lequired to
ensure that the subprojects achieve their full agricultural, economic, and
social potentials. Accordingly, the' state DID director would regularly meet
with the state directors of agriculture and the Farmer's Organization Author-
ity, the local branch manager of the' Bank Pertanian Malaysia, the state
development officer, and t'he director of the state planning unit. They would
meet under the auspices of the State Action Committee to program and coordi-
nate preparation and' preliminary evaluation of new irrigation schemes and
agricultural development of completed schemes. In fulfilling these func-
tions, the state-level officers would follow, to the extent practicable, the
recommendations and guidelines of the project's Preparation and Evaluation
Team.
34.       Under the project, a Preparation and Evaluation Team would be
established to execute the subprojecit preparation and evaluation procedures
(see para 36) and to program and mon'itor agricultural services (including
extension, input supply, marketing, and production credit), project charges
and taxes, and socio-economic effects of completed schemes. The team will
consist of planning engineers, economists, agronomists and soil scientists to
review the scheme proposals. Assurances were obtained that throughout the
implementation period of the project, the necessary personnel would be assigned
to the team from the relevant units of the Ministry of Agriculture. (See
Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement.) The team will be headquartered in
the federal Drainage and Irrigation Department and will be administratively
responsible to the Project Coordinator, but team members will retaint pro-
fessional links with their own agencies and units, which will provide backup
support for their work. The Preparation and Evaluation Team would forward
programs recommended for supporting agricultural services through the Project
Coordinator to the project's Agriculture Services Coordinating Committee for
review and followup action.
35.       The Agriculture Services Coordinating Committee would consiL of,
at least, the Director General of DID; the Project Coordinator; and represen-
tatives from the Department of Agriculture, the Malaysian Agriculture Research
and Development Institute, the Farmers Organization Authority, and central
agencies as needed. The committee would be chaired by the Secretsry General
of the Ministry of Agriculture. It would meet as required to ensure that
full support and backup services are provided to the Preparation and



- 10 -
Evaluation Team by federal- and state-level agricultural agencies. In addi-
tion, the committee would be responsible for ensuring the provision of re-
quired agricultural services for completed irrigation scheme areas. Assurances
were obtained that the committee would be established by August 31, 1977, and
that the necessary agricultural support services would be made available to
completed schemes. (See section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
36.       In order to ensure that each scheme proposed for project financing
is technically feasible and economically viable, the following subproject
processing procedures would be followed for each irrigation scheme:
(a) initial review and preparation of identified schemes by state DID
and agricultural directors;
(b) review of scheme proposals and field visits to scheme areas by the
Preparation and Evaluation Team;
(c) preparation of evaluation reports and approval of detailed designs
by the Preparation and Evaluation Team after the field visits;
(d) submission of all proposed irrigation schemes to the Bank for
approval prior to construction on the basis of full evaluation
reports of the estimated 10-15 schemes costing over US$1.2 million
each, and summary data forms for the remaining schemes (see section
3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(e) project monitoring of the completed schemes by the Preparation and
Evaluation Team (see section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.       Land tenure and rental arrangements for paddy land vary widely
throughout Malaysia. The existing land tenure legislation is in general fair
but is sometimes not effectively enforced. To gain a clearer view of the
overall tenancy situation and the proper course of future Government action,
assurances were obtained that all evaluation reports and summary data forms
prepared for the project schemes would include information on land tenure
conditions and that proposals regarding amendments to the existing legisla-
tion and its enforcement would be prepared and forwarded to the Bank by
December 31, 1979. (See sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
38.       Assurances were obtained that all required staff for the project
would be provided in a timely fashion and that arrangements would be made to
finance state level staff required to operate and maintain completed schemes.
(See section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
39.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years.    A
first tranche of about 10 schemes is being prepared. These schemes would
be reviewed by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and submitted to the Bank
for approval immediately after loan signing, to permit early initiation of
the construction program. The volume of construction activity would grad-
ually accelerate through the fourth year of project implementation, while
topographic survey, layout, design, and evaluation of most project schemes
would be completed by the end of the third year of project implementation.
Equipment acquisition would be phased with the completion of schemes.



- 11 -
Technical assistance and training activities, and the Rompin/Endau feasi-
bility study, would be initiated at the commencement of the project and
substantially completed by December 1979.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       Total project costs are estimated at US$89.0 million, of which
US$39.0 million (44%) would be foreign exchange. Total cost estimates for
the irrigation scheme construction program are based on cost estimates for
each of the 195 schemes proposed for inclusion in the project, which were
prepared by the state directors of drainage and irrigation on the basis of
preliminary layouts, field survey estimates of earthwork and land acquisition,
quantities and numbers of structures required, and unit costs for recently
tendered works of similar nature. Cost estimates for equipment are based
on recent suppliers' quotations, while those for overseas training are based
on fees and expenses currently charged for similar training programs at irri-
gation agencies in developed countries. Unit costs for technical assistance
and the Rompin/Endau feasibility study are based on currently prevailing fees
and expenses for individual advisors and consulting firm services in the
region. Physical contingencies of 15% on construction costs and 10% on
equipment have been included. All cost estimates have been adjusted to
mid-1977 levels based on recent Malaysian and international inflationary
trends. Expected price increases due to inflation of 9% per annum in
1977-79 and 8% thereafter have been included for civil works, technical
assistance, consultant services, and related physical contingencies. For
equipment, annual price increases averaging 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% thereafter
have been allowed. Expected price increases amount to 18% of total project
costs.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of US$39 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirement of the project. All local costs would be borne by the
Government of Malaysia throughout the implementation period of the project.
Activities falling under constitutional state jurisdiction, such as operation
and maintenance of completed irrigation systems, would be financed through
normal federal Government grant procedures as necessary. (See section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement.)
Cost Recovery
42.       The project would raise average total farm family income from about
US$500 to about US$750 p.a. at full project development. Despite this large
increase, at full project development only about 20% of the beneficiaries,
compared with around 5% at present, would receive incomes above the poverty
line. Given the small size of paddy farms, these income increases represent
the maximum impact currently attainable through irrigation intensification
consistent with the achievement of an acceptable rate of economic return. In
time these people should be further helped through new land settlement,
industrialization, and other development programs to assist the rural poor.
43.       Under the Malaysian constitution all matters pertaining to land,
including the levying of irrigation and drainage rates for land in officially
gazetted irrigation and drainage areas, fall within the jurisdiction of the



- 12 -
state governments. These rates vary widely from state to state, but, in
general, in Peninsular Malaysia they average about US$9/ha for areas with
effective drainage and irrigation facilities. No rates are charged in Sabah
and Sarawak because the settling of nomadic indigenous people in the stable
pattern of irrigated paddy production is part of an important policy to protect
the forest environment from slash-and-burn cultivation and provides the basis
for subsequent economic and social development. The imposition of taxes on
irrigated land is viewed as an obstacle to this basic policy.
44.       In addition to irrigation and drainage rates, paddy farmers in the
Peninsular states pay an Islamic paddy production tithe (zakat) to the state
departments of religious affairs, which use the receipts to finance the
religious school system, teachers' salaries, welfare expenses, and mainte-
nance of mosques. This tithe is compulsory for Moslem farmers L1 under state
law, and nonpayment is punishable by imprisonment or fine. Zakat payments
are assessed on gross paddy production at rates ranging between 4% and 10%,
with the average payment equal to 7% of production. Actual recorded payments
in small scheme areas in recent years have ranged between US$16/ha and US$45/ha
*in domestic farm-gate prices. Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for com-
pleted schemes range from below US$10/ha to about US$20/ha for most gravity
systems and between US$50/ha and US$60/ha for small pumping systems, when
pumping energy costs are included.
45.       The capital costs of project schemes would average about US$1,100/ha
while incremental O&M costs would amount to approximately US$20/ha per annum
at full development. Actual average incremental irrigation and drainage rate
payments, assuming official gazetting of scheme areas as irrigation and drain-
age areas and passage of pending legislation in several Peninsular states to
increase the rates, would amount to about US$6/ha. Average incremental zakat
payments are estimated at US$25/ha at full project development. Assuming a
10% discount rate and a repayment period of 25 years,these combined payments
would represent a cost recovery index of 22%. It should be noted, however,
that the financing of O&M irrigation facilities in Malaysia is totally divorced
from water rate collections, that irrigation OM is financed out of general
revenues supported by a highly efficient and progressive tax system, and that
the level of O&M is generally satisfactory and is not constrained by a
shortage of funds. Considering these factors, the fact that the overwhelming
majority of project beneficiaries would receive incomes below the current
national poverty line even after full development, and the special problems
the Borneo states face in encouraging migratory tribes to adopt modern agri-
cultural practices, the present structure and level of water charges are
considered acceptable. An assurance was received that the Government would
ensure that the state governments in Peninsular Malaysia would continue to
collect water charges whose level would be determined by taking into account
incentives to the farmers, the farmers' capacity to pay, and other taxes and
charges imposed on them. (See section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
/1 Virtually all paddy farmers in Peninsular Malaysia are Malay and hence
legally liable Moslems.



- 13 -
Production and Marketing
46.       Project works would provide farmers with the water control they
require to increase yields on presently cropped land. These yield increases
would be obtainable with the techniques and varieties presently known to
them and with small proportional increases in inputs which before would not
have been economical because of risks of late and insufficient delivery and
drainage of water, and of river and tidal flooding. These works would
further permit farmers to capitalize on future improvements with available
high-yielding varieties and on parallel improvements in agricultural exten-
sion, credit, and other supporting services. In addition, based on the
currently proposed schemes, the project would bring approximately 13,000 ha
of new land under irrigation (and cultivation) for the first time, and would
permit double-cropping of about 20,000 ha presently cropped only in the wet
season. The final overall cropping intensity in scheme areas currently
proposed for development would be 158% on 53,000 ha (84,000 cropped ha) of
paddy land, compared to the present cropping intensity of 109% on 40,000 ha
(44,000 cropped ha) of paddy land. These developments would result in an
incremental increase in annual paddy production of 147,000 tons by full
development (1988), equivaLent to about 96,000 tons of milled rice, or
approximately 17% of the projected incremental national consumption by that
time. All incremental production due to the project would be marketed in
Malaysia.
Procurement
47.       Project schemes would be both small and widely dispersed. The
average scheme would cost about US$260,000 to construct, excluding costs of
pumps, surveys, engineering, and supervision. An average of three schemes
would be constructed in each state per year, and these schemes would average
about 40 kilometers distance apart, limiting the possible economies of scale
to be derived from, and the feasibility of, grouping contracts. Furthermore,
to speed implementation DID typically divides small schemes into at least two
contracts, so that work can begin on-headworks while the engineering of the
canal system is finalized. The average civil works contract tendered would
thus be less than US$130,000 in value, and the largest contract is antici-
pated to be about US$2 million. The local contracting industry is competitive
and strong, and local tendering is well managed and publicized. For these
reasons, the civil works element of the construction program (US$71.3 million)
would be carried out under contracts awarded after competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Bids would be accepted from foreign contractors who wish to partici-
pate.
48.       Pumps and associated equipment to be installed in project schemes
(US$5.4 million), and operation and maintenance equipment and vehicles
(US$2.8 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of
these items. Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$20,000 each and
limited to a total of US$500,000, would be procured through normal Government
procedures.



- 14 -
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100%
of the ex-factory cost of items manufactured locally, and 90% of the actual
cost of locally procured imported items. Disbursements for all civil works
would equal 46% of actual costs. For overseas training, technical assistance,
and the Rompin/Endau feasibility study, disbursements would equal 100% of
total expenditures. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
March 31, 1983.
Benefits and Risks
50.       The project would provide the infrastructure facilities required
to raise crop yields, production, and farm incomes of paddy farmers throughout
Malaysia. Aside from furthering basic national policies, the project would
yield high economic returns. The overall expected economic rate of return of
the currently proposed list of projects would be 23%. The rate of
return is high because of the short construction periods, rapid projected
agricultural development due to the experience of the farmers in paddy
cultivation and their repeated requests for the works being proposed, and the
low opportunity cost of the paddy smallholders' labor. No schemes would be
accepted for inclusion in the project unless a thorough technical and economic
evaluation indicates an expected rate of return of 10% or greater, except in
areas where extreme poverty and absence of alternative employment opportunities
prevail, where an 8% cutoff would be applied.
51.       There are two risks associated with the project. -First, it is
possible that the completed schemes would not be properly operated and main-
tained. Steps have been taken to guard against various problems that could
arise. The Government has agreed to ensure that the additional O&M staff and
funding requirements will be met, and the project will provide the necessary
equipment as well as an advisor to help further upgrade DID's O&M capability.
In addition, the Preparation and Evaluation Team will be responsible for
monitoring the operation and maintenance of the schemes. DID has demon-
strated a comparatively high standard of efficiency and there are no indica-
tions the agency will allow that standard to deteriorate. A second risk
concerns the availability of agricultural support services. The Agriculture
Service Coordinating Committee will ensure that agricultural services will be
made available to the schemes. Furthermore, the provision of improved agri-
cultural extension on a nationwide basis under a proposed Bank agricultural
extension project should help raise yields even higher than is projected for
the current group of schemes.
Environmental Effects
52.       Because paddy is presently being cultivated under rainfed or
crudely irrigated conditions in most subproject areas, project irrigation
works would not greatly affect the scheme area environments, particularly as
schistosomiasis is not present in Malaysia. Drainage works would reduce
local mosquito habitats.



- 15 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Features of special interest in the draft Loan Agreement are in
Section III, Annex III.
55.       It is an additional condition of effectiveness that a suitably
qualified and experienced Project Coordinator would be appointed in consulta-
tion with the Bank (see paragraph 32).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 13, 1977






0                                                                                   0 
ft                                                                                      0
CM                           7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-  ~     I00 M0
00. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~   1
0                              - -                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
WOW  u                     -.}..-.u
no ssu                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..no0
*  *0                                                              u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ss



Unlesso otherwise noted, dataL for 1960 refer to any year betiween 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, aiA for Most Rocent Eatimeat between
1973 end 15975.
weKezio haa been scleoted so an objective sountry sine. it hue met a rapid path of ilduetuie eseaisson Ln the aems. blayeta a industriea baee
Is relatively acall mid the country has the capauity and plans to exped its industrial produetion repiCly In the futurse.
KMAYSTA  LM    (A  Woat Worreys±      (A  X9571    (A  1962, registered apalcato for workg       (A  1957-58p    (A   Federation of Malaya.
M   a   Weot Malaysila    4A   Regietewed appli toat  for wnrkp    (A  1964.66,    (a   Piped water Wnide.
POT R=TE XMSTII          (A bWest IbLayela;     (A   1972.
(AO     hgnlicding Didian jungle populaticni    (A   RLlati  of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor forces    (a  Urbazn
onlyl (a Including eveniAg nohocam.
POTUA         (A  Under revieionp    (A   Dioe to emigration population growth rate is lower then 'the rate of natural increases     La  Ratio of
poplnation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force)          Unoluding unexlaoydp     (a   Registered, inaludlng phyajolano
practicing dentistry;     IL  Including assistant nurseal         Tntel, urban end rural.
)M 17 (AIncluding assieta.t craea; (a 196h-66i (A lceide only.
110, XcLy 5, 1977
nwumiLN of noczi. 1CA5
lend Are. (thon !SL                                                                  Pooolito  ner nursing sersom - Population divided by n-mbr of Practicing
Total   Total surfoce aes  rpriains land area end inland wat.rs.                       n'Ian    female graduet. nons., "trained' or ".ertif ted' .ure.e, mnd
Agri. - Moot recent estimate of agricultural area uoed temporarily or pern.-           tswiliary pereounel wtth trai.nin  or experience.
needly for orop, paet.r.., market & kitchen gardens or to Ise fellow.              PogsggS.- pr ft-g1g...kg ha   Populetion divdsd by .,.ober of hospital bede
eviobl  in pbic and prOrt Tsneral mnd epeciale.d hospital and
GNIP es, ca.it. (150  - GNP? per capita estimates at currant Carkte prices, *rehabilitation, centers          excludes nursing hoe. and establishmeants for
.alcul.t.d by ea-  co-nerion method as World Bank holes (1973-75 basis);             cuatodial end preventive cars.
1960: 1970 mnd 1975 date.                                                          per osnita supply of alonio  Cl of r ouirenutel - Coeputed fros snergy
sqoJ.i-aet of at foo pL    io  eveilabl. in connry par capita per day;
P.pul.tift mod vital otatietic                                                         available uopplisa -mprim. dineetin Production , Imports laee enporti  moad
P.nulation Raid-y.an million)  nou of July first: if no-t ealabl., -vera.              changes in stock; net soppliea seclude animal f.ed, aseda, quantitiso ceed
of t     woed-yosr eati.atee; It60. 1970 end 1975 data,                              in food processing and loe.se in distribotion; rquireomnta were eatlatad
by FAO hose.d on physiolngica1 meeds for nrounl octivity aod health con.id-
Ponol.tioc denity   par squaro e  - Mid-year population per squars kilmoter            ering envirment.1 temperature, body weights, age end aSo distribution  of
(100 hectra.s) of total arms.                                                        population, and ellowing 10% for waste at ho-cas-hold level.
Pponlotion doceity  panr onoor he of ooric. land - Computsd .a oby. for              per coast, ;uonfly of oP1roca1in fereno Mr day) - Protein content of per -apit.
.gricultoraI land only,                                                              cot sopl of food p.rd,     net supply of food is dnfinad as oboo; reqoi,e-
mnts fr.1ountries establiahed by USDA cnonmoic Pt... rch iS.vi...
Vital atatLteico                                                                       provd   for a ninJ.a alloawane of 60 grac  of total Protein per day, mod
Cruda birth rats par thouaond. eyerage - Annual li-e birtha per thenand of             20 Scene of animal and pule. protein, of which 10 gran  should he anImalI
oid-year Population; ton-yosr arithme tic "oraese ending in 1960 and 1970,           protain; thuae satndards are lowr than thone of 75 gteno of total protein
and fiv-yea   averge ending in 1971 for nmet recent, estimaote.                      and 23 grase of animal protein so an averace for the world, propneed by PA0
Crued death rote nar thoduond. vre    - Aonc1e deaths per thousand of nid-yeer         in the Third World Food Suevy.
populotion; te-erarithmetic en     age   nding In 1960 mnd 1970 and fiv-           Prnnt       roonsnl f;ro animl on        pul- - Protein supply of food
yeantravrg    edn    in17fonst recent setstimte                                       derivd fra anfoaeadpleai           rn   per day.
Inetnotlt  roeUthoul - Annua deoth.o    infants under one year of age        Deamth rote (/thou) age. 1-4 -AnnualI deaths per thousand in age gronp 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                            yearn, to children in this age group; suggested os on indicator of
Life . eca  tyo   birth fyr) - Averege ..mb- of year. of life raenaing at              malnutrition.
birth; ueually five-y,.r --eoos. ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
Ing ooutriea.                                                                      Rd-.t&bo
Cr000 rnp-dunti.n rate - overge numher of lIve daughters o wouen will boor           Ad1uated enollen rtin -r        Iarschool -iftrollinet of all egee a. per-
in her -orna  reprnductivo period if she experience  Present gog-specific            cetg     f rnx     shool-i     ouoin     inludeo children aged 6-11 years
fertIlIty rate,; usually five-year average. ending in 1960, 1970 mond 1975           but adjuated for different 1engtha of primary education; for ouontriao with
for dvelop ng countries                                                          uieslteducotion, enrolireot nay exc."d 1001 since mspiaorbew
Poeuatio orod, ate  ll -totl - Cenpo-ed a.-ua growth rotes of nOd-year          or shv   the official ochol age.
population for 1950-,     11-7 mond 1970-75.                                       Adjusted enrollmet rotin -   eodactZ school - Conputd oabove; secondary
ponlaron rooh rte %;  uran  Ceputed.lihe growth rot, of totel                education requires  tlscfo        er   of approved prinory in.truction;
population; different definitio.- of urbon -ro  nay effect comparability of          provide. generol, vocational or teether treining instroctionns for pupils
dat  axn   coori                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of aS.; correopondence coures ere generally ...clded.
Urban nopulation t of total) - Ratio of urban to total Population; different          feors feh8 o olMei orovided (first end ascend levels) - Totel y.ors of
definition. of urb.n ermso nay offect conparability of d.t. enog onontrte.           scoolng    at secondary level, voctional inat-etion ey he partially or
conpletely, eclude.4
Astrtus(percent) - Children (0-14 years), uorking-age (15-64 years),          Vocotionual enrolbeet ft, of secondary) - Voctina   inattu    i   -n nlude
and rtire  (65 years and over) as parontegns of mid-year populotion.                 technical, iedua triol or other progroa which opert  indpendently or a
Ago de22ndeocy ratio - Rtito of .poplation under 15 and 65 ond ovr to th..e             dsparnsto of ascondory ins tit.tion..
of age  I5 throuh hi                                                                 dolt,literacy r    dat  ) - Literate adults (ablo to read and -its) on Par-
Ecnccdenonden    rto io - R.ati of Population undor 15 and 65 end ovr to            e   g  of talduIt population aged 15 yearo end over.
telobor forci oge group cf 156     years.
FoilY olanino acceptgorsg (cunu1otive thou) - Cuocltie noober of acceptors          Housin.
of brhib-coctro   deie    ne anio       fntional fatly planning progren             Persn. mr roomn (urb.n) - Average Cabot of Paroono Per ro-  in occupied
Pin-s ic_ptionl .vc.udr..Pa              o                                           conventional dwellings In urban  r..ao; dwellings enclude non-pernanent
Fonily pl ...ino  - oucr ft of mrried. woo"I t,Prntgc      ofnrid     snnof             struc tudrs  and onocc.upiedports.
child-hb-rig ogo (15-44 yearo)      ..c o  birth-cotrol dice t o  l nerriod         Ocruniod dwelig   without pied   .ter fl) - Occupied convatio-ol   wellinge
.oe i  en  g  group.                                                           In urban and rural areas without inside or outside Piped cater f-cillitie
ao.r percetage of all occopied dwellings.
E.plveyent                                                                            Acces to elctricity ft of all Iwxli. el - C-nvotion..l deollinge oith
Totu labor force (th.umemod) - Econoically active poreo., Including armd                electricity in living quarterto a. perce;nt of total duellinge in urben end
forcIoaduenlyod but       hcldn       bonnve,sudents *tc.; dofinitione                rural o-e.
IntrcocorIraaranorctnproble.                                                coral donllinen conneted to electricity (%)I  Cnput.d oa abou   for rota
Labor force in cr icu1ture it) - Agricultur.1 labor forco (in farsing, forestry,        dwelling  only.
bnigadfihig     aepercentage of total labor force.
U1noocove  (It of labor force)  - lemplyad are usually defined .s promon  who         Coneumotion
are able mond willing to take a Job, out of a Job on a given day, roniod ont        Radio receiver, fonr then pool - All typen of r...iv-ra for redio broadranto
of a Job, aod oceking work fer. sPecified oioima  period not ...ceeding -cxto gen..rel public Per thousand of popul.tion;...cludee oniicn.-.d recei.ero
week na  no  hocnarable botwern counries due tofdifferent definitions            in countrios and in year. when regiatration of radio eet. we, in offect;
of unoployd end suc       fdata, e.g. enlyetofc            aicc,an                    data fo r recent years my not he conparable snice Coat coutrie. aboliehed
_urvys, compulsory u-nploynect i.ourocco.1 liceaing.
Faseneecas on      then son) - Po...engnr care c-prie moctet care meating
I,incas   t d ibtribtion- Par'ecg o,,,tf priveto I-cone (both In cash and kind)         b.  ca    ight Perona ; exclud.a onbulacc, hear... mnd ollitary
reevdb   ih..t 5%,rchet20%, poorest 20%X, mnd pooreat 40% of bone.-               vehiclos..
hold..                                                                             EgloctricIt, (bo/yr par cap) - Annual conaamption of industriol, caommrcial,
pbicnd pivate elotricity in khI-ott hours par napita,geral
Diatribution of land -wnr.hip P-Prcenteg.a of land ownd by wealthieet 10%               baead on production data, witbont allowance for laos.. in grid. but allo--
and poo-nt 10% of land onr.Lug for imports and caprta of electricity.
Nlwe:it (ttho/yv per can) - Per caPita anua .n onaunption In kilograms
Hesalth and Nutrcition                                                                  esiatdfon d-nestic Production PIca -at tmports of newprint.
Popola:tice ear ebraician - Ppeplotion divded by number of Practicing
Physciac   _celfied fr- . ordica1 onbool at ontvseity lev1l



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Mm n                 1960-65      1965-70     1970-74     1975
GNP at Market Prices         9,012      100.0          6.9         5.6          9.2        1.2
Gross Domestic Investment    1,885       20.9          9.4         7.7         16.7      -25.4
Gross National Saving        1,741       19.3         11.8         7.9         12.9       15.9
Current Account Balance       -144       -1.6           .
Exports of Goods, NFS        4,098       45.5         4.1          6.5          7.3        3.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        3,961       43.9          3.3         5.7         11.3      -18.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Value Added                Labor Force /1                 V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       _ Z             Mln.       Z                   US$            Z
Agriculture         823         29.7            1.5      46.9                   549        54.4
Industry            760         27.5           0.5       15.6                 1,520       149.5
Services          1,184         42.8           1.0       31.3                 1,184       116.4
Total/Average     ..***
2,767        100.0            3.2     100.0                 1,017        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                      Federal Government
M$ Mln             Z of GDP            M$ Mln             % of GDP
1975        1975       1972-74         1975         1975     1972-74
Current Receipts            6,173        27.8        23.6          5,117         23.1      19.7
Current Expenditures        5,968        26.9        22.0          4,900         22.1      19.0
Public Authorities Surplus     96         0.4         0.9            .             .         _
Current Surplus               301         1.3         2.5            217          1.0       0.7
Capital Expenditures        3,060        13.7        10.4          1,266          5.7       4.7
Foreign Borrowing (net)     1,011         4.6         1.3            912          4.1       1.1
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1969     1970      1971     1972     1973      1974     1975
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money               3,724    4,131     4,666    5,770     7,574    8,729   10,001
Bank Credit to Public Sector          909      833     1,045    1,186     1,375    1,746    2,148
Bank Credit to Private Sector       1,841    2,246     2,572    3,014    4,586     5,278    6,084
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money or Quasi-Money as % of GDP     33.1      33.3     36.0     40.4     40.0      37.8     45.1
Consumer Price Index (1967    100)   99.4     101.3    102.9    106.2     117.4    137.8    144.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                 -0.4       1.9      1.6      3.2      10.5     17.L4     4.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector          6.4     -8.4      25.5     13.5      15.9     27.0     14.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector         9.0     21.9      14.6     17.2     52.2      15.1     15.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
/1 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973    1974    1975                             US$ Mln      %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS       3,171  4,420   4,098
Imports of Goods, NFS       2,739  4,441   3,961      Rubber                 1,023      28.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    432   - 21     137      Tin                      500      13.8
Timber                   581      16.1
Interest Payments (net)      -40    - 50     -57      Palm Oil                 397      11.0
Petroleum                249       6.9
Other Factor Payments (net) -230    -199    -172      All Other Commodities    865      23.9
Net Transfers                - 62   - 58    - 52
Balance on Current Account    100   -328    -144          Total              3,615     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment     172    373     229
Net MLT Borrowing Lj                                  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Disbursements            80     182     550
Amortization              24     52      75                                      US$ Mln
Subtotal                 56     130     475
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed    1,220
Other Capital (net)         ( -92  (   1   (-489      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt      _
Other items n.e.i.          (_     (_                 Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1,220
Increase in Reserves (-)    -236    -176    - 71
Net Official Reserves                                 DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975 /2
(end year)                 1,411   1,615   1,695                                         %
Fuel and Related Materials                            Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed     3.2
Imports                     163    418     426      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
of which:  Petroleum       49    215      ..      Total Outstanding & Disbursed     3.2
Exports                     152    345     402
of which:  Petroleum      110    281    -359
IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1977)
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                        IBRD
Average rate during period:                           Outstanding & Disbursed          313.4
M$ per US$     US$ per M$        Undisbursed                     365.1
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    678.5
1971         3.05           0.33
1972         2.82           0.35
1973         2.44           0.41
1974         2.41           0.41
1975         2.40           0.42
Nov. 1976          2.53           0.40
/1 Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and
are not comparable with balance of payments estimates.
/2 Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1977)
Amount in
US$ million
Loan                                                                  (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower                   Purpose                 Bank     Undisbursed
Twelve loans fully disbursed                                          227.9 /1
599     1969     Malaysia                Education (I)                8.8         2.0
672     1970     Malaysia                Land Settlement             13.0         0.3
700     1970     National Electricity
Board                 Power (V)                   20.0         0.2
774     1971     Sabah Ports Authority   Ports                       16.1         1.9
799     1972     Malayan Railway
Administration        Railroad                    16.0         0.6
810     1972     Malaysia                Education (II)              15.5        11.4
851     1972     Malaysia                Urban Transport (I)
(Highway I)                16.0         1.5
880     1973     Malaysia                Population                   5.0         4.5
885     1973     Malaysia                Land Settlement             25.0        14.4
908     1973     Malaysia                Water Supply (II)           13.5         4.2
931     1973     Malaysia                Highway (II)                19.5         8.8
967     1974     Malaysia                Land Settlement             40.0        29.6
973     1974     Malaysia                Agricultural Development    45.0        43.0
974     1974     Malaysia                Education (III)             19.0        18.2
1031     1974     National Electricity
Board                 Power (VI)                 43.3         25.6
1044     1974     Malaysia                Land Settlement             36.0        32.5
1115     1975     Malaysia                Agricultural Research
and Extension            28.5        28.3
1178     1975     National Electricity
Board                 Power (VII)                35.0         34.5
1213     1976     Malaysia                Sewerage                   21.5         21.4
1214     1976     Malaysia                Urban Transport (II)       26.0         26.0
1294     1976     Malaysia                Rural Development          21.0         21.0
1329     1976     Malaysia                Education (IV)             35.0        35.0
Total effective commitment                        746.6 /2
of which has been repaid                         68,2
Total now outstanding                             678.5
Amount sold                  22.5
of which has been repaid   12.2                  10.3
Total effective loan now
held by Bank                                    668.2
Total undisbursed                                             365.1
/1 In addition, Malaysia is Guarantor for Loan 405-MA of February 26, 1965,
to the Public Utilities Board in Singapore (amount being held by the Bank
as of March 31, 1977 - US$4.0 million).
/2 An additional loan of US$35 million for a third highway project was
approved by the Executive Directors on March 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1977)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business        Loan       Equity      Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -          1.31        1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.           Cement           1.28        0.28        1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel            2.45        1.01        3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel             -          0.23        0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.               Textiles         1.25        0.25        1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (IIIDF)                Financing         -          0.63        0.63
Total gross commitments                      4.98        3.71        8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs           3.58        3.46        7.04
Total investments now held by IFC            1.40        0.25        1.65
Total undisbursed                                        ___



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 599   Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of May 23, 1969;
Effective Date: September 16, 1969; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project aims at improving Malaysia's technical, vocational, and
agricultural education. Construction of all project institutions has been
completed. The quality of the completed facilities is satisfactory. Deliveries
of furniture and equipment to the project schools are near completion. Project
implementation is about 27 months behind schedule because of site problems
for one agricultural school. The closing date has been postponed by six
months to September 30, 1977. Project schools are operating at 90% capacity
and are functioning satisfactorily. Although no final evaluation has yet
been made, the schools appear to have achieved low dropout rates and high
pass rates. The total project cost is close to the original cost estimate.
Loan No. 672   Second Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$13.0 Mtillion Loan of May 20, 1970; Effective
Date: August 20, 1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective
Date: June 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The projects (including the First Jengka Triangle Land Settlement
Project which has been completed) consist of clearing the forest, planting
62,000 acres of oil palm and 35,000 acres of rubber, and settling 10,000 families
in the Jengka Triangle (State of Pahang). The Federal Land Development Authority
(FELDA), responsible for the execution of the projects, operates efficiently,
keeping high standards of planting and maintenance. Physical works under the
Second Project (Loan 672-MA) have been satisfactorily completed. The remaining
undisbursed loan amount of about US$0.3 million will be spent for the purchase
of fertilizers. Under the Third Project (Loan 885-MA) clearing and planting
have been completed. Delays of about six months in the planting program and in
infrastructure development will result in similar delays in housing and settler
intake. Standards of agricultural development under both projects are generally
satisfactory. Measures for improving factory design, operational standards,
and financial control are being discussed with FELDA management.
Loan No. 700   Fifth Power Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of July 16, 1970;
Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: April 30,
1977
The Fifth Power Project consists of the final stage extension of
the Port Dickson Thermal Power Station with three 120 MW units. The first
and second units were commissioned in February and August 1976 respectively,
about 22 months behind schedule due to late delivery of structural steel
works. The third unit was commissioned in February 1977 about two months
behind schedule. The project cost was about 39% higher than the appraisal
estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan No. 753    Second Telecommunications Project; US$18.7 Million Loan of
June 21, 1971; Effective Date: August 18, 1971; Closing
Date: February 28, 1977
Project execution is substantially complete. The two pending work
items are likely to be completed by end of 1977. The latest financial state-
ments, auditors reports and progress reports show substantial improvement
in the operation of the Telecommunications Department. Disbursements have
been completed and the loan account has been closed.
Loan No. 774    Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Work has been satisfactorily completed on the new berths at Kota
Kinabalu and Sandakan. Slow progress in completing the access road to Sandakan
will delay full use of the latter facilities until mid-1977. The new head-
quarters building has been occupied. The total and foreign exchange costs of
the works are now estimated about 1.5 times the appraisal estimate at US$47.1
million and US$24.4 million respectively. Settlement of a large outstanding
claim will delay the final account and the closing date of the loan has been
extended by one year to December 31, 1977.
Loan 799 Railway Project; US$16.0 Million Loan of February 11, 1972;
Effective Date: April 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978
All equipment and material has been received. However, project
completion, now 21 months behind schedule, will be further delayed until
June/July 1977 due to the damage caused by recent heavy rains to the earth
works on the Port Dickson line. Therefore the closing date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1978. Malayan Railway (MR) operations showed an all-round
improvement during 1976 although the key efficiency indicators were well
below acceptable standards, especially those pertaining to locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance. As the result of a successful marketing drive,
freight traffic during 1976 registered a recovery for the first time in five
years and increased by 24% compared with 1975. Passenger traffic continues
to grow. These results are expected to produce MR's first annual profit
since 1962, yielding a financial return of 1% in 1976 on net fixed assets in
use. Audit reports are two years in arrears due to the delay in submission
of accounts to the Auditor General by MR. Efforts are being made to clear
the backlog.
Loan No. 810    Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. Implementation has improved but is
still about 14 months behind schedule mainly due to earlier delays in the
appointment of consultant architects for the Science University, the approval



ANNEX II
Page 5
of the campus plan by the University and the preparation of documents by the
Public Works Department. All civil works contracts have been awarded and most
of the construction is scheduled to be completed by late 1977. The recent
estimate of the project cost is about 35% above the appraisal estimate. The
Government is aware of this cost overrun and is prepared to finance it.
Progress on equipment procurement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 851   Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project (Highway I);
US$16.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1972; Effective
Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1978
The project is designed to improve the transport facilities between
Kuala L<umpur and the adjacent town of Petaling Jaya. It consists of improvement
of about six miles of Federal Route 2, including detailed engineering, widening
of the road, construction of interchanges and cycle tracks, and relocation of
services. Civil works are about 11 months behind schedule, due to initial short-
comings in one contractor's project management. These problems have since been
overcome and implementation is being accelerated. The project also includes
a transport study for metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (completed), a national road
maintenance study (draft final report completed), and detailed engineering of
about 137 miles of Federal Route 1 (completed).
Loan No. 880    Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The civil works component continues to make progress. Out of 571
buildings, 127 have been completed and an additional 101 are under construction.
Tenders have been awarded for an additional 17 buildings. Until recently, the
most delayed construction component has been the provision of 31 Family Planning
Clinics.  This has now been corrected, and two out of the 31 clinics are now in the
stage of preparation of tender documents; preparation of layout site plans has
been started for another 12 clinics. The National Family Planning Board (NFPB)
has selected a supplier for the computer to handle the management information
system; a draft contract is being prepared. A review of the project was
carried out by an external team of experts in April. Program performance in
1976 was even better than in 1975 when the number of new acceptors was the
highest since 1971.
Loan No. 908    Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Mlillion
Loan of June 14i, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project cons:Lsts of the expansion of water supply facilities
to meet increasing demand in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The
first part of the-project, comprising ordinary water works, was virtually
completed in 1976, practically.on schedule and within the cost estimate and most
of the works are in operation. The contract for the construction of the Langat
Dam was awarded late, in mid-1976, but construction is now progressing satisfac-
torily. The dam is expected to be completed by the end of 1979, more than two
years behind schedule, and will cost about 25% more than originally estimated.



ANNEX II
Page 6
However, no difficulties are foreseen in raising the additional funds required.
The Selangor State Water Department, which is responsible for the Project,
performs well in spite of staffing problems. Its financial management still
needs some strenFthening.
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
August 31, 1977
Overall, the project is about 60% completed. Progress is behind
schedule due to delays in land acquisition and eviction of squatters from the
right-of-way, late grant of licenses by the Selangor State Government to
operate quarries, and late approval of work permits for expatriate staff.
Poor management of some of the contractors also contributed to slow progress.
Although some measures have been taken to remedy these deficiencies and improve-
ment is noticeable, construction progress is still below the revised targets.
An extension of the closing date by two years to August 31, 1979 is being
considered. Consulting services for various studies and detailed engineering
are satisfactory and on schedule. Construction costs have escalated sharply
because of rapid inflation and the total project cost is now estimated to be
US$50 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million. The
disbursement rate for the construction and improvement of roads was reduced
as of January 1, 1976 from 55% to 40% of actual expenditures.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement ProJect; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 65,000 acres
of oil palm and settling 4,400 families in the state of Johore. The agricultural
development is progressing satisfactorily in line with the appraisal estimates.
Delays in road development, due in part to coordination problems between FELDA
and Kejora (a regional development authority) have delayed settler intake by up
to two years. However, improvements are noticeable since construction of roads
is now being contracted to private contractors, and since responsibility for
coordination has been unified under the Ministry of Lands and Regional Develop-
ment.
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes main and feeder drains, coastal embankments
and tidal gates to improve drainage in an area of 134,000 ha (330,000 ac) in
southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated agricultural develop-
ment program with changes in cropping patterns to improve farm incomes, inter-
cropping, opening up of 24,000 ha of new land, Farmers Development Centers and
improvements in research, extension and crop processing. Implementation of the
project fell behind the appraisal schedule shortly after loan signing due to
the Drainage and Irrigation Department's decision to redesi n the drainage
system utilizing the most recently developed methodology. The design improve-
ments have reduced costs and have resulted in increased system effectiveness,



ANNEX II
Page 7
while delaying the tendering process by about two years. Implementation has
recently accelerated, and 10 out of 11 major drainage basin contracts have
now been let, with two substantially completed. Agricultural supporting
services provided by five different agencies are being improved and coordi-
nated by the Project Director and his staff.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
preservice teacher training, and an East Malaysia educational television
system. Implementation is about 12 months behind schedule due to earlier
delays in the selection of sites for the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs).
Contracts have been awarded for 8 out of 13 project institutions. Construction
began in early 1976 and most of the project institutes are scheduled for
completion in late 1978. The estimated total project cost is about 25% over
the appraisal estimate. Disbursements remain slow but should improve in 1977.
The Project Unit is functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1031   Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Loan No. 1178   Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: 'March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Implementation of the Sixth Power Project (275 kV transmission lines
from Temengor to Papan and from Port Dickson to Malacca and extension of trans-
mission and distribution system) and the Seventh Power Project (the Prai Power
Station Extension, 3 x 120 MW) are both on schedule.
NEB's financial position is currently sound as the Government has
paid M$39 million (US$15.6 million) of equity funds and has undertaken to pay an
additional M$30 million (US$12 million) early in 1977. A rate of return of
13.4% was earned for 1976, exceeding the rate of 8% required under the Bank
Loan Agreements.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 lillion Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 55,000 acres
of oil palm, settling 3,400 families, constructing two palm oil mills and
establishing two urban settlements. The agricultural development is progressing
satisfactorily. However, progress of urban development and of phasing in
nonagricultural activities is still unsatisfactory. Lack of progress in the
construction of village infrastructure and housing has caused delays in settler
intake. The July 1976 supervision mission's findings and recommendations for
corrective measures were transmitted to the implementing agency, the Pahang



ANNEX II
Page 8
Tenggara Development Authority and the Ministry of Land and Regional Develop-
ment under which control of regional authorities and land development agencies
has recently been unified. The development of the urban infrastructure is being
reviewed by the Bank's Urban Projects Department.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation continues to fall further behind schedule.
However, the major bottleneck (terms and conditions of employment of inter-
nationally recruited scientists) was overcome with the Government's approval of
"Terms and Conditions of Employment" on August 19, 1976 and acceptance by the
Bank on September 22. This is the first indication that the project could show
some progress. Action is also being taken to expedite procurement under local
procedures and the first requests for reimbursement have been received.
Little physical progress can be expected before late 1977 or early 1978 although
trends and intent should be identifiable by April 1977.
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan for
the sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewers (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral sewers) to serve an
additional population of 200,000 in Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institu-
tion of a separate Sewerage Department within Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its
own finance and accounting system; engineering and management consultants
services; staff training; and preparation of sewerage and pollution control in
the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. The project is in its initial stage. It
has started about six months behind schedule because of delays in engaging
consultants but can be completed on time. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency
of the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will
be improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although the
project is essentially an urban transport project, it also contains important
components and initiatives in other urban sectors such as squatter upgrading
and development of new low-cost settlements. The main components are: (a)
about 7 miles of new roads and 10 miles of road improvements; (b) traffic
engineering and control schemes; (c) sites and services for about 1,400 house-
holds and 150 businesses; (d) upgrading of infrastructure services for about
2,100 households, and (e) feasibility and engineering studies for a Kuantan
Urban Development Project and for a national sites and services program.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Related policy measures include the introduction of minibus services, traffic
priorities for high-occupancy vehicles and area road pricing. Progress is
generally satisfactory except for the sites and services component which
has been delayed as a result of bad weather and contracting problems.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes the Lemal Irrigation component which will provide
drainage and flood protection to 30,000 gross ha of farmland and intensive
irrigation to 12,000 net ha of padi; construction of 190 km of rural roads
throughout North Kelantan; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha of padi;
construction, rehabilitation and equipping of 25 Farmers Development Centers
(FDC); and establishment of an effective agricultural extension service for
Kelantan. The project start-up period has seen rapid implementation of the FDC
component, good progress on the agricultural extension component with planning,
staffing and preparation of equipment specifications proceeding on schedule and
a welcome degree of cooperation between the Farmers Organization Authority and
the Kelantan Department of Agriculture in joint planning of agricultural service
buildings and field operations. Some delay in engineering of roads and irriga-
tion works has occurred due to delays in approval of staff, but this problem
appears to have been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling
and to redress exisiting imbalances in the provision of primary education
by providing additional classrooms in poverty areas, facilities for teacher
training and one teacher training college in Sarawak. The project includes
three new Industrial Training Centers and expansion of two existing ones. It
includes also a study on community education in preparation of government
investment in nonformal education. The Loan was declared effective on
January 14, 1977.



ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable for Key Points
(a) Timetable by country to prepare the project: the development of
the small irrigation subprojects has been part of the continuing DID
program to develop the country's irrigation and drainage works.
(b)  Project prepared by:   The Department of Drainage and Irrigation with
assistance of the Economics and Statistics
Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture.
(c)  First presentation to IBRD:       August 1976.
Preparation Mission:              August 1976.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   October 1976
(e)  Completion of negotiations:       May 1977
(f)  Date of Effectiveness:            October 1977
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Coordinator, in consultation vith the Bank, will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan. (See para 32.)
(b) The borrower will establish a Preparation and Evaluation Team,
consisting of planning engineers, agronomists and soil scien-
tists to review the scheme proposals. (See para 34.)
(c) The borrower will establish an Agriculture Services Coordinating
Committee, consisting of various agriculture service agencies,
under the chairmanship of the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture, to ensure that full support services are provided to
the Preparation and Evaluation Team. (See para 35.)
(d) The borrower will provide project information on land tenure
conditions and to submit to the Bank by December 31, 1979 proposals
regarding amendments and enforcement of the existing land tenure
legislation. (See para 37.)



IBRD 12694
MARCH 1977
5DW                   I01-                    1,2.                   I53'                    I04
MALAYSIA
TQ&775k06 .r¢~gtNATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
P    .a _                                         Padi growing areas and location of proposed subprojects in peninsular malaysia
/  '-  THAILAND                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PADI GROWING AREAS
K5P .T/              HAILA                                                  SUBPROJECTS
A   RAIN GAUGE STATIONS
.sngar  , 2.2  '                   L                          =   FEDERAL ROADS
RAILWAYS
*R o      2                      )8 ;haru                     STATE BOUNDARIES
MerTongo,tarn                                         n Lu nOg            INTERNATIONAL BOUNOARIES
24'EDAH             2           .a Ku~~~~~~~~~~~~mpong
It Tunag R(O.'0JO nw   M.  k a   0  20  40  60
S.ngei)    a  alin                        Me,ah |   wr0  >   |S8>O[55 5  +MILES
KILOMETERS
Bumbong LImo  O* a,.    \                                                   4   6   9 laKI S
George( Own)2
PENANG     ?   )   /      12           t         P    X   g         $cns,iganu
kuolSE*rsa        P  A   K             AE  T/  4 V                                   I
5       h~~~~~uala KurouM Ri ,                                      N     A@ *" K5gFIA/T4  ,  ,            -
P   Id  TmpmJg /  9     ?
EKua  K  oih  15   n  r       k {>         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kuol. Dungunt
Sunge Eaging
Hilir Pns Rn                                                   un _ S            u  t  h
5  S  '  Z  G      Ben (t g'Sa
Cs    Thonjong Karane qnhf
_-     Kuala Selangor; <Az\t 
K.KC  .UAL orP                                    e   |
bo6u,,du'Ia  ahto,,, nn triaa.s ap do,,e,' / ,s    .*       (    \
inaply  endo e  t r a, r,epaw c   th  P 
World Boa*",,d It., offilidsu .      Dickso n  , 9,       Gem  s   GinS?
ls¢          a0) <;i C?>~~~~~10,5                                                e's ~tsngC
|\THAIL ANDz                            r W1.^∞\|ACA<1> 
CAMBODIA
4;  VIET-NAM     P                               Mu                    Wang
!    SoUth ChiN e
~~~~~~~~~~~~      K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PninK
/'.                 ~~~INDONESIA~                          PninKCi
> u  SINGANG PORE                           (      (
9  I N o;Di O  N E S I A                                                                  ,0,  104 O






IBRD 12695
1100                              1120                              1140                              '11                                1180                   FEBRUARY 1977
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROPOSED SUBPROJECTS                                                                        412k ('
SABAH AND SARAWAK
SUBPROJECTS                                                                      B     lmd
ROADS                                                                      12
60                                                    RAILWAYS
STATE 8OUNDAR ES                                               Kor   b Kiobe             1- 6<
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                               r----    _,                          -
RuRSa PRo1        14 Sensra e.,_ ,,
/8   SABAH        L-g 
VictoAa  \<                    t    d        3 A                   - -'
L.hed DatoO'e   V
4          80    120   168   200
T   e c \v ,/  ,   I X  ~ ~ -TX,,                              L-
KILOMETERS                                                0              eoog
~~  1 3 ~                                                                                   K -~                USYTOEVI  LESS ~~BRUNEI 
a a  4 ' <   _ '<   SARAWAK                                         R
rJY/                                                                                  / t                                                                                 PHILIPPINES /-
vi  <<   A   * S tOk                                    l                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT,C,1
17    e      S                                                        I N   D  0   N  E S   I A                  M A       DS,IA
OLALA /14∞  WoBslfs1  N O E APROJECT AREA'  -
/7'             ~~~MALAYSIA/
The b-odorie., sh.-  -  this soap 75  -51            - SIGSPORE    /I,.0 
imply eod--sess  Se  c-p1e-onb  by, lh,SUAEB
11,40                                                             N  E    .          --A  KALIMANTAN



