Report No. 1523-MA                                                                 tt  C
Appraisal of the National                                                                      OP)
Small-Scale Irrigation Project Malaysia
May 13,1977
Projects Department
Fast Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00           =  M$2.52
MS$1.00           =   US$0.39
M$l million       =   US$389,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)             =   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                   =   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =   0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                =   2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)          =   35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                        0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (l/s)          =   0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)               =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)            =   2,205 pounds
M1ALAYSIAN MEASURES
1 gantang = 5.5 pounds of padi
1 picul    =  133-1/3 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM    =  Bank Pertanian Malaysia
DID    =  Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA    =  Department of Agriculture
FOA    =  Farmers' Organization Authority
FSL    =  Full Supply Level
GOM    =  Government of Malaysia
GRP    =  Glass-Reinforced Polyester
MOA    =  Ministry of Agriculture
MARDI  = Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development Institute
Sg     =  Sungei = River
MALAYSIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFiCiAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                              i-ill
1. INTRODUCTION . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .1
2. BACKGROUND   . . . .    o.   . . .       . . .  . . . . .1
General  .    .  . .   .   .   .   .   e  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
The Agricultural Sector  .                  ........              2
Irrigation Development in Malaysia . . . . . . .     . . . . .    2
3.  SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION IN MALAYSIA. . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Organization and Management    . . . . .    .   . .     . .       4
Extent of Small-Scale Irrigation . .   .      .   . . .  .  . .   5
Types of Small Schemes.. .. . . . . . . .             . . .  .    5
Project Formulation        . . . .        . . . .  . . * .   .   .   .   .  6
4.    THE  PROJECT  .    . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   0 .   .   .       .  .  .     . o    . o  .  .  7
Construction Program . . .      . . .   o . .  o . . o o . o .    8
Subproject Preparation and Evaluation Procedure  . . .  . . .   10
Hydrological and Soils Investigations  . . .11
Operation and Maintenance Equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Technical Assistance and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Rompin/Endau Feasibility Study  .   . . . . . . .  . . .   .   12
Implementation Schedule  . . . .       . . . .  . . . . . . .   13
Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . a *                          .   13
Financing  . 0  .  *. . .  . .  . e                     0        14
Procurement   . .  .         . . . . . 0        . . . .  .  . .   14
Disbursements  .    * .  .  .   . . .    .    .              .   15
Accounts and Audits  . . .           .     . . .  .  .  .  . . . . . . .15
Environmental Effects   . . . . . . . .           . .  . . . .   16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. J. Goldberg (Bank), G. Thorsky and P. Judd (Consultants).
Messrs. P. Whitford and G. Temple assisted in the preparation of the
report.
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offical duti. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
5.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Project Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Staffinz ,o .  .  .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .                                      17
Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Cost Recovery   . . . . . . ..   .      . . . . . . . . . .   18
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME  . . . . . . . .   19
Production   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Marketing and Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Farm Incomes ..  . ..  . .   . . .  . . .  * *   . . .   21
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
8.  RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .    25
ANNEXES
1.   Conditions of Rice Production in Malaysia
2.   Organization of the Drainage and Irrigation Department
3.   Operation and Maintenance Costs and Water Rates
4.   Project Works
5.   Equipment List
6.   Technical Assistance
7.   DID Staffing and Training
8.   Feasibility Study for Rompin/Endau Irrigation Development
9.   Cost Summary
10.    Expenditure and Disbursement Schedules
11.    Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
12.   Production, Marketing and Price of Rice
13.    Economic Analysis of Sample Schemes
14.    Summary Economic Analysis
CHARTS (attached to Annex 2)
17052 - Organization Chart of the Federal Drainage and Irrigation Department
17053 - Organization Chart of a Typical State Drainage and Irrigation
Department
17054 - Organization Chart of a Typical District Drainage and Irrigation Office
MAPS
12694 - Padi Producing Areas and Location of Proposed Subprojects in
Peninsular Malaysia
12695 - Location of Proposed Subprojects in Sabah and Sarawak



REFERENCES
1. S. Selvadurai, "Padi Farming in West Malaysia", Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries, Kuala Lumpur, 1972.
2. M.A.W. Taylor and Goh Kiam Seng, "Magnitude and Frequency of Low Flows
in Peninsular Malaysia", Hydrologic Procedure No. 12, Drainage and
Irrigation Division, Ministry of Agriculture, Kuala Lumpur, 1972.
3. DID, "Technical Report and Economic Analysis: Kota II Subproject,
Kuala Muda District, Perak," Reference No. KED-1, mimeo, 1976.
4. DID, "Technical Report and Economic Analysis: Bendang Behrang Subproject,
Batang Padang District, Perak," Reference No. PK-7, mimeo, 1976.
5. DID, "Technical Report and Economic Analysis: Kerandang Timur Subproject,
Besut District, Trengganu," Reference No. TR-4, mimeo, 1976.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The Government of Malaysia has requested Bank assistance in
financing the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project. The formulation of
the project originated in the high priority placed in the Third Malaysia
Plan on assisting the poorest segments of Malaysian society through programs
which would rapidly improve the productivity of the masses of agricultural
smallholders in situ. Government policy has also been directed towards
assisting those groups which, for reasons of geographical dispersion in
isolated pockets of poverty, have not yet substantially benefited from
various government agricultural and rural development programs. Provision of
small-scale irrigation facilities is one of the most inexpensive and certain
means to achieve these ends in the Malaysian context, particularly in compar-
ison with large-scale new land development or industrialization, necessary as
they may be to achieve other important goals. Farmers in the smaller padi-
producing areas of the country remain one of the largest identifiable poverty
groups in the country, numbering over 100,000 families, with an average
holding of 1 ha of padi land. The cost-effectiveness of the small-scale
irrigation approach derives from the fact that relatively simple facilities
are capable of providing experienced padi farmers with the water control they
require to substantially improve their yields and incomes, even on the small
parcels of land operated in Malaysia. The average capital cost of the works
proposed under this project is US$1,100/ha and US$970/family. Overall
average costs are reduced to some extent by the fact that in some cases only
rehabilitation of existing handworks is required, but even in the more
difficult cases where complete systems must be constructed, costs of the
systems would average less than US$1,500/ha and US$1,300 ha/family.
2.        The major project component would consist of a small irrigation
scheme construction program, covering 195 subprojects with a total irrigable
area of 54,000 ha operated by 60,000 farm families. Each scheme would
consist of a water source (gravity diversion weirs, pumping stations, or
systems of dams and bunds), main and on-farm distributaries, drainage systems,
access roads, and river and tidal flood protection bunds as necessary,
serving padi areas between 50 and 2,000 ha in extent. Proposed subprojects
are located throughout Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak. Each scheme
would be subject to a preparation and evaluation procedure carried out by the
implementing agencies to ensure its technical, agricultural, and economic
feasibility. In addition to the construction program, the project would
include the procurement of operation and maintenance equipment required for
the completed schemes, small technical assistance and training components for
the Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), and a consultant feasibility
study of the proposed development of the Rompin/Endau area of Pahang State
for irrigated padi production.
3.        The project is in line with several basic government objectives,
including improving the productivity and incomes of small farmers; reducing



- ii -
urban-rural and ethnic income disparities; reducing the national dependence
on imported food grains, and the settling of indigenous Borneo peoples in the
stable pattern of irrigated padi production in order to provide a foundation
for the economic development of those peoples and the States of Sabah and
Sarawak, ard to preserve the forest environment.  Implementation of the pro-
ject would result in an incremental annual production of about 147,000 tons
of padi (96,000 tons of milled rice) by 1988, and would yield an economic
rate of return of 23% in addition to advancing the Governmqnt's social and
food production goals.
4.        Total project cost is estimated at US$89.0 million (M$224.2 million),
of which the foreign exchange component would be US$39 million, or 44% of the
total cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$39 million would finance the foreign
exchange component. The civil works element of the construction program would
be implemented through a large number (approximately 390) of small contracts,
averaging about US$130,000 in value. The small size of individual contracts
is due primarily to the small size of the schemes, which would be so dispersed
geographically as to preclude the possibility of grouping works in most cases.
Furthermore, to speed implementation DID typically divides small irrigation
schemes into at least two contracts, so that work can begin on headworks while
the engineering of the canal system is finalized. For these reasons the civil
works element (US$71.3 million) would be carried out under contracts awarded
after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Pumps and associated equipment to be
installed in project schemes (US$5.4 million), and operation and maintenance
equipment and vehicles (US$2.8 million) would be procured under international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% prefer-
ence margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to
local manufactures of these items. Small off-the-shelf items, costing less
than US$20,000 each and limited to a total of US$500,000, would be procured
through normal Government procedures.
5.        Technical assistance, in the form of advisors in planning, design,
and O&M, for a total of about 85 man-months, would be provided under the
project, as would overseas training for DID staff. In-service training of
field staff would be provided at a Water Management Training Center to be
established with assistance from Japan. The cost of advisory services is
estimated at US$5,000 per man-month. Consultant services for the Rompin/
Endau Feasibility Study are estimated at 100 man-months at US$6,900 per man-
month, in addition to supporting manpower from DID.
6.        The project would be implemented by DID over a period of five years.
DID is an organization of proven competence in the planning, design, and
implementation of both large and small projects in the field of irrigation,
drainage, and flood control. The agency has successfully completed the Muda
(434-MA) and Kemubu (500-MA) Irrigation Projects, and is currently imple-
menting the major drainage component of the Western Johore Agricultural
Development Project (973-MA) and the major irrigation component of the North
Kelantan Rural Development Project (1294-MA). While DID's design, research,
and planning units are centralized in Kuala Lumpur, O&M operations and
supervision of small works are decentralized at the State DID level. Under
the project a senior DID engineer would be appointed as Project Coordinator,



- iii -
responsible for programming and supervising subproject preparation, evaluation,
and implementation, as well as overall administration of budgeting, procure-
ment, and reporting. A Preparation and Evaluation Team would be established
under the Project Coordinator to involve specialized local expertise in the
agricultural and economic evaluation of each proposed subproject. This team
would consist of DID engineers, soil scientists and agronomists from the
Department of Agriculture, and agricultural economists from the Planning and
Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. This team would also
monitor and evaluate completed small schemes. To ensure that completed schemes
received required agricultural supporting services from the various agencies of
the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for delivering them, an Agricultural
Services Coordinating Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry
of Agriculture would be established.
7.        The project would raise average total annual farm family incomes
from about US$500 at present to about US$770 at full project development, and
would reduce the proportion of beneficiaries in poverty from 95% at present
to about 80% at full project development. Given the small size of padi farms
these income increases represent the maximum impact currently attainable
through irrigation intensification consonant with the achievement of reason-
able economic rates of return. The project would raise few padi farmers above
poverty income levels, but it would provide large proportional increases in
income to the largest identifiable poverty group in Malaysian society, and
would help provide more time for the planning and initiation of land settle-
ment, industrialization, and other development programs to assist the rural
poor.
8.        The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$39 million,
with a 17-year maturity and a grace period of 3-1/2 years. The borrower
would be Malaysia.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has requested Bank assistance in
financing the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project. The major objective
of the project is to raise the productivity and incomes of over 60,000 small-
holder padi-farming families whose padi lands are located outside Malaysia's
large-scale irrigation command areas. As the vast majority of these small-
holders are in the lowest income brackets of the Malaysian economy, this objec-
tive directly supports the Government's poverty redressal and rural development
policies. Most of these families have benefited relatively little from GOM
agricultural development programs, which in the irrigation field have concen-
trated on large system development in order to assure the country a reasonable
degree of self-sufficiency in rice. A subsidiary objective of the project
would be the reduction of Malaysia's continuing dependence on rice imports to
satisfy staple food requirements. Construction of the 195 small irrigation
schemes proposed for inclusion in this project would result in a net increase
in padi production of about 147,000 tons by full project development, which
would provide benefiting farmers substantial increases in farm income. The
project would also finance the equipment needed to maintain completed schemes,
training of technical staff and technical assistance for the Drainage and
Irrigation Department (DID), and a consultant feasibility study of the pro-
posed Rompin/Endau irrigation and land settlement project.
1.02       The project was identified and prepared by DID with the assistance
of the Economics and Statistics Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and a mission consisting of Messrs. J. Goldberg (Bank) and G. Thorsky (consul-
tant) in August 1976. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission which visited Malaysia in November 1976 composed of Messrs. Goldberg,
Thorsky, and P. Judd (consultant). Messrs. P. Whitford and G. Temple (Bank)
assisted in the preparation of the report.
2. BACKGROUND
General
2.01       Malaysia covers an area of 333,000 sq km, of which 132,000 sq km
are in the 11 States of Peninsular Malaysia and the remaining 60% in the
Borneo States of Sarawak and Sabah (Maps 12694 and 12695). Of the total
population of 12.3 million in 1976, 10.2 million lived in Peninsular Malaysia,
1.2 million in Sarawak, and 0.9 million in Sabah. The ethnic composition of
the population is approximately 47% Malay, 34% Chinese, and 9% Indian, with
the remainder chiefly consisting of groups indigenous to Sabah and Sarawak
(Dayaks, Kadazans, Ibans, Bajaus, and others) and a small Eurasian community.
While almost all padi farmers in Peninsular Malaysia are Malays, most padi
farmers in Sarawak and Sabah are members of indigenous tribal groups.



-2-
2.02       With a per capita income of US$720 in 1975, Malaysia is one of the
most prosperous developing countries in Asia. The economy has maintained
fairly high rates of growth, averaging 6% per annum during the last decade.
This trend slowed down to 1% growth in 1975, due to softening of international
commodity prices, following the commodity boom years of 1973 and 1974 when
commodity prices and GNP growth peaked. The estimated GNP growth in 1976
again rose above trend to about 10%, and Malaysia's external reserves (US$2.4
billion in October 1976) rose to a level equal to about eight months of net
imports at current levels.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03       Malaysia's agricultural sector is largely oriented to world export
markets, and occupies a predominant position in international trade in natural
rubber, palm oil, hardwoods, and pepper. In recent years cocoa production has
increased dramatically, largely as an intercrop with mature coconuts, providing
a substantial boost to the low incomes of coconut smallholders. Except for oil
palm, acreages of all principal crops mainly consist of smallholdings, although
the large private and public estate sector continues to play a vital role in
the production of rubber, coconuts, and intercropped cocoa. Recent GOM agricul-
tural policy has sought to lessen the dependence on rubber production of the
400,000 rubber smallholders in Peninsular Malaysia through diversification into
supplementary crops, although in many areas mixed farming involving rubber,
coconuts, fruit trees, and padi and field crops has long been practiced.
Irrigation Development in Malaysia
2.04       With most of the Peninsula's cultivated land under rubber (61%)
and oil palm (10%), rice production (accounting for 14% of cultivated land) is
largely confined to irrigated areas situated in the coastal plains, among
which are the Muda (Loan 434-MA), Kemubu (Loan 500-MA), and North Kelantan
Rural Development (Loan 1294-MA) project areas, accounting for 44%, 5%, and 2%
respectively of the Peninsula's rice production. Despite the fact that 57% of
Peninsular Malaysia's padi land is now double-cropped, an average of 11% of
the Peninsula's rice requirements, or about 140,000 tons per annum, have been
imported in recent years.
2.05      Irrigation development in Sabah and Sarawak is a comparatively recent
phenomenon. Only 12% of Sabah's padi lands are now double-cropped, and no padi
land in Sarawak is reliably double-cropped. As a result, 38% of Sabah's and
43% of Sarawak's rice requirements, or a total of about 110,000 tons per annum,
have been imported in recent years. Further intensification of irrigation
facilities in both Peninsular Malaysia and in Sabah and Sarawak is thus seen by
the Government as a vital step toward achieving two important goals - reducing
dependence on rice imports and alleviating the poverty of padi farmers, the
majority of whom subsist on incomes below the national poverty line.
2.06      Irrigation development in Peninsular Malaysia over the last few
decades has concentrated on the intensification of padi production in existing
padi areas, where farmers have traditionally planted the crop for subsistence



- 3 -
and sale and where soils, climate, and topography were known to be suitable
for padi production. These recent developments may be roughly divided into
two main phases:
(a)  the provision of headworks (gravity diversion structures,
pumping stations, or a combination of the two) and primary
and secondary distribution and drainage facilities to permit
double-cropping of padi; and
(b) the rehabilitation and improvement of established irrigation
schemes, including the provision of on-farm (tertiary and
quaternary) canals and drains to provide the higher standard
of water control necessary to improve yields and increase
cropping intensity.
These two phases have been implemented both in large-sc- e /1 and iri smqll-
scale systems, the first phase beginning with the irt-r-iation of the large-
scale Krian project in the 1890s and proceeding t:rough completion of the
basic facilities in Muda and Kemubu in the earlv 1970s. The second phase
has begun with the initiation of the large-scale Lemal Irrigation component
of the North Kelantan Rural Development Project (1294-MA) and with the
rehabilitation and intensification of , few existing small schemes. While
all large existing padi areas are n'w served by basic irrigation systems,
many small rainfed padi areas still require basic systems to permit reliable
main-season cropping and the initiation of dry-season cropping.
2.07      Although the main thrust of Malaysian irrigation development has
been the provision of irrigation systems in traditional rainfed padi areas,
DID has undertaken projects to develop previously unused land for padi pro-
duction. The largest single scheme of this type is the Tanjong Karang
Irrigation Scheme, under which 20,000 ha of padi land were developed from
coastal mangrove swamps and shallow peats during the late 1930s and early
1950s. Many small-scale systems have also been developed successfully from
coastal swamps and interior forested river valleys. At present, the only
area on the Peninsula considered feasible for large-scale new land develop-
ment for irrigation is the Rompin/Endau area of Pahang State. Considerable
potential exists for development of new small-scale schemes in both Peninsular
Malaysia and in Sabah and Sarawak, and some larger areas in Sabah and Sarawak
will warrant further investigation as local populations increase. Finally, a
considerable amount of new land has been and will continue to be developed
for padi production on the margins of existing large and small systems,
through increases in headworks capacities and command and improvements in
conveyance systems.
/1 The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) defines a large irrigation scheme
as one serving more than 5,000 net acres (2,000 net ha) of padi.
There are 13 such schemes in Peninsular Malaysia, and none in the
Borneo States.



- 4 -
3. SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION IN MALAYSIA
Organization and Management
3.01      The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) in the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for development of small irrigation schemes
throughout Malaysia, within the context of its broader responsibility for
development of the country's water resources. Under the Malaysian Constitu-
tion, drainage and irrigation are "concurrent" functions, which are exercised
jointly by federal and state authorities. Under this arrangement, the
Federal Government is responsible for financing the capital costs of all
substantial civil works in the drainage and irrigation field, and Federal DID
exercises technical supervision and control of DID works throughout the
country. Smaller works are often financed initially by state governments
which are subsequently reimbursed by the Federal Government. Although
development expenditure financed by the states is negligible, operation and
maintenance costs, including the salaries of most state-level staff, are
generally financed by the states. DID staff is divided between headquarters
units, which include about 50 professional engineers, and state DID depart-
ments under the direction of state DID Directors, with a total complement of
about 150 professional engineers. State DID Directors are administratively
responsible to the respective state governments, and technically responsible
to the Director General of DID and his staff in Kuala Lumpur. All state-level
professional staff are on secondment from Federal DID, and are transferable
subject to the prerogative of the Director General. The organization of DID
at federal, state, and district levels is shown in charts 17052-17054 in
Annex 2.
3.02      The total budgetary allocation for DID works under the Second
Malaysia Plan (1971-1975) was M$513 million, of which M$265 million was for
development and M$248 million was for operation and maintenance. The Third
Malaysia Plan (1976-1980) allocates M$893 million for DID operations, of
which M$620 million is for development and M$273 million is for operation
and maintenance. Half of the development budget (M$310 million) is earmarked
for irrigation development, with the remainder for large-scale drainage and
reclamation, flood control (including river channelization, dredging, urban
drainage, and construction of levees, dams, and diversion channels), water
supply development, hydrologic investigations, and related activities.
Over 60% of the irrigation development budget (M$200 million) is allocated
for construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes.
3.03      Small irrigation schemes are customarily identified at the local
level, and submitted to the state government by elected representatives or
District Officers, or directly to State DID Directors by district-level DID
staff. Initial analysis of technical and economic feasibility and screening
of small schemes is done by the State DID Director, with further screening
by the Assistant Director General of DID for Planning in Kuala Lumpur.
State DID is responsible for executing topographic surveys of all scheme
areas, preparing preliminary layouts and cost estimates, and obtaining a
certification from the State Director of Agriculture that soils in the
scheme areas are suitable for padi production. A simple economic analysis



-5-
is also performed by the state DID to ensure that proposed schemes meet
the Economic Planning Unit criterion of a minimum internal rate of return
of between 8% and 10%. For schemes which are accepted, Federal DID prepares
final layouts and detailed designs. Schemes are then tendered, constructed,
and operated under State DID supervision.
Extent of Small-Scale Irrigation
3.04       Small irrigation schemes currently serve about 83,000 ha of padi
land in Peninsular Malaysia, which is 28% of the total irrigated area main-
tained by DID (291,000 ha) and 23% of the total area of wet padi land har-
vested in the main (wet) season of 1974. In Sabah, 20,000 ha are served by
small schemes, representing over 60% of the main-season wet padi crop area.
A completely different situation prevails in Sarawak, where only 800 ha of
padi land are served by reliable irrigation systems, representing less than
2% of the main-season wet padi crop area. In the Borneo States and in Johore,
Melaka, Negeri Sembilan, and Pahang, small schemes represent the only form
of irrigation development, while they are the predominant form in Trengganu
and Perlis. The total production of small schemes in Peninsular Malaysia
is approximately 165,000 tons of milled rice (14% of total production), while
in Sabah and Sarawak small schemes produce about 43,000 tons (60% of total
production) and 2,000 tons (2% of total production) respectively.
Types of Small Schemes
3.05       The types of small irrigation schemes constructed in various areas
have been dictated by a combination of ecological, engineering, social, and
economic factors. Because of the relatively high costs of ground water
development, and the high consumption of water in padi production relative to
the value of the crop, irrigation in Malaysia is totally dependent on surface
water sources. In the smaller padi areas, irrigation has typically begun with
the construction by farmers of rudimentary systems consisting of brushwood
dams and earth channels, in the hope of assuring a reliable wet-season crop
under conditions of wide annual and monthly variations in rainfall. These
systems rarely provide any dry-season irrigation, are regularly destroyed
by floods each rainy season, and provide only partial and unreliable service
when they do function. To improve conditions of padi production in these
areas, DID has constructed permanent systems of the following types.
(a) Gravity Schemes. This is the predominant type. It is
selected when the source stream is relatively small,
thereby allowing the construction of a relatively
inexpensive reinforced concrete gated headworks across
the stream to divert the water to the water conveyance
system. The rest of the system typically consists of
ancillary structures, drains, flood protection and
tidal bunds, and tidal control gates as local condi-
tions dictate. This type of system can serve both
wet- and dry-season crops, and production and yields
are normally quite high, depending on low flow levels
in the stream.



-6-
(b)  Puti-ing Schemes.  After gravity schemes, the next most
common type is pumping. The choice between gravity and
pumping headworks is mainly based on economic consider-
ations. On large rivers, pumping plants on the river bank
are less expensive than gravity headworks across the
river. However, if the water supply is critical, gravity
headworks have an advantage in that they can divert
virtually all the water in the stream. Therefore, both
from the standpoint of economics and of water control,
pumping schemes are used on relatively large rivers. The
rest of the system is similar to gravity schemes, including
a distribution system and ancillary structures, drains,
protective bunds, and tidal control gates. This type of
system can also serve both the wet- and dry-season crops.
Water in large streams is normally available for two
crops per season, so annual production is usually quite
high.
(c) Controlled Drainage. This is a relatively inexpensive
system built on flat gradient flood plains along the
coast. Rainwater is stored as needed on the fields and
in the drains by a system of bunds, drains, controls and
gates. Excess water is drained out during low tide. Sea
water intrusion is prevented by the bunds and closed
gates during high tide. Total water management is not as
good as in a pump or gravity scheme and only one wet-
season crop is normally grown in most areas.
(d) Inundation. About 20 small inundation schemes have been
constructed in the rugged interior portions of the State
of Pahang. They are used in the steeper upland valleys
and are similar to controlled drainage schemes in that
they store rainwater on the fields and are a one-crop
wet-season system. They are composed of a series of low
dams straddling the valley stream, 2 to 3 m high, and
gated outlets to the stream. Water backs up behind each
dam and when the water level reaches the upper end, that
area is cultivated and planted. The water is gradually
lowered behind the dam and successive, lower, areas are
planted. Potential padi yields are low in this type of
system, but are usually high enough to justify the very
low investment costs.
Project Formulation
3.06      The formulation of the project originated in the high priority
placed in the Third Malaysia Plan on assisting the poorest segments of
Malaysian society through programs which would rapidly improve the produc-
tivity of the masses of agricultural smallholders in situ. Government policy
has also been directed towards assisting those groups which, for reasons of
geographical dispersion in isolated pockets of poverty, have not yet sub-
stantially benefited from various government agricultural and rural



-7-
development programs. Provision of small-scale irrigation facilities is
one of the most inexpensive and certain means to achieve these ends in the
Malaysian context, particularly in comparison with large-scale new land
development or industrialization, necessary as they may be to achieve other
important goals. The cost-effectiveness of the small-scale irrigation
approach derives from the fact that relatively simple facilities are capable
of providing experienced padi farmers with the water control they require to
substantially improve their yields and incomes, even on the small parcels of
land operated in Malaysia. The average capital cost of the works proposed
under this project is US$1,100/ha and US$970/family. Overall average costs
are reduced to some extent by the fact that in some cases only rehabilitation
of existing handworks is required, but even in the more difficult cases where
complete systems must be constructed, costs of the systems would average less
than US$1,500/ha and US$1,300/family.
3.07      The basic prerequisite for the successful selection and implemen-
tation of a program of this kind is the existence of experienced organizations
capable of identifying and selecting feasible small schemes, engineering and
constructing those schemes rapidly and efficiently to consistent high stan-
dards, and operating and maintaining them well after completion. This organi-
zational capability exists in Malaysia. The Drainage and Irrigation Depart-
ment (DID) has completed two large and complex Bank projects (para. 2.04) on
schedule and at the original estimated costs, and has designed the complex
drainage works of the ongoing Western Johore Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 973-MA) as well as successfully completing hundreds of small
and large irrigation schemes without consultant assistance. DID retains an
impressive corps of highly competent design engineers, who typically have at
least a decade of field experience in construction supervision, operation and
maintenance, planning, and administration. DID also controls a large decen-
tralized network of experienced state-level operation and maintenance field
staff. The Planning and Development Division of the MOA consistently prepares
economic analyses of irrigation project proposals to high international
standards,/l and regularly surveys agricultural and socio-economic develop-
ments in existing project areas. The Crop Production and Soils Branches of
the Department of Agriculture (DOA) also maintain high technical standards in
their specialized fields. The involvement of these agencies in the implemen-
tation of the proposed project (paras. 4.07-4.08) provides substantial
assurance that the project would be implemented effectively.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would improve the productivity and incomes of over
60,000 padi smallholders throughout Malaysia through construction or rehab-
ilitation of approximately 195 small irrigation schemes, ranging in size
between 50 and 2,000 ha of net irrigable padi land. The project would also
/1 This unit recently absorbed the Economics and Statistics Branch of the
MOA, which provided much of the analysis for the ongoing North Kelantan
Rural Development Project (Loan 1294-MA), as well as analyses of three
representative schemes for the present project.



-8-
include procurement by DID of equipment needed to maintain the completed
schemes, training of DID staff and technical assistance for the agency, and a
consultant feasibility study of the proposed Rompin/Endau irrigation and land
settlement project. The components of the project are summarized below, and
further details are given in Annexes 4-8.
Construction Program
4.02      The major project component would consist of a small irrigation
scheme construction program extending over the five-year project period. The
construction program is based on proposals and cost estimates for 206 indi-
vidual schemes prepared by the State DID Directors and their staffs on the
basis of preliminary surveys and layouts, which were then checked by Federal
DID and reduced in number to the current list of 195 schemes. A complete
list of proposed schemes, including details of presently cropped areas,
future cropped areas, cost estimates, expenditure schedules, type of irriga-
tion supply, potential cropping intensity, projected yields, and number of
benefiting farm families in each proposed scheme, is presented in Annex 4.
The location of each proposed scheme is shown on Maps 12694 and 12695.
Each proposed scheme has been subjected to a preliminary economic evaluation
at an 8% discount rate for inclusion by the Economic Planning Unit in the
Third Malaysia Plan. Schemes would be accepted for reimbursement under the
Loan only after a full preparation and evaluation process (paras 4.07 and
4.08) demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Bank that each scheme is
economically viable, i.e. that it would produce no less than a 10% economic
rate of return. Schemes with an estimated economic rate of return between
8% and 10% would be eligible for reimbursement upon submission to the Bank of
evidence in a full Evaluation Report (para. 4.07) that a predominant propor-
tion of scheme area farmers receive incomes below the national poverty line
and that alternative sources of employment do not exist in the area concerned.
The slightly higher economic criterion and more careful appraisal procedures
are expected to require replacement of only a few of the proposed schemes.
Replacement schemes would be selected from about 200 additional small schemes
already identified at state level, but which still require considerable basic
hydrological investigation and survey before being ready for implementation.
The eventual actual construction program is not expected to diverge substan-
tially from current estimates either in numbers of schemes or area irrigated,
as the schemes fall into a few broad categories (para 3.05) within which area
and cost per ha do not vary greatly.
4.03      The proposed schemes would irrigate a total of about 54,000 net
ha of padi, 77% of which is now cropped on the basis of rainfall, natural
inundation, or primitive or obsolete facilities which require rehabilitation
or upgrading. The geographical breakdown of proposed schemes, net areas,
and estimated base costs of construction are as follows:



- 9 -
Net Irrigable Padi Area (ha)   Estimated Base
State /a           Number of      Presently     Additional    Construction Cost
Schemes       Cropped                         (US$ million)
Perlis                 7            1,190             200              1.6
Kedah                 35            6,800             770             12.0
Perak                 12            2,100             300              2.9
Selangor               1            1,010             -                1.4
Negeri Sembilan       48            5,170             240              4.1
Melaka                 9            1,730             -                0.8
Johor                  2              280             -                0.2
Pahang                25            2,620           2,150              3.8
Trengganu             14            6,450           3,270              7.2
Kelantan              12            5,600             280             10.2
Sabah                  7            4,130           2,330              4.7
Sarawak               23            3,830           3,340              5.5
Total           195          40,910          12,880             54.4
/a  No suitable schemes in the State of Penang were identified for inclusion
in the project during the course of project preparation.
4.04      Various types of schemes would be constructed under the project,
corresponding to the four categories described in para. 3.05, with the
choice of type of scheme in each location governed by local conditions
and economic considerations. Analysis of subproject proposals indicates that
50% of the schemes would be supplied by gravity diversion headworks and 35%
by pumping plants, 9% would be of the controlled drainage type (all located
in Sarawak and Trengganu), and 6% (all in Pahang) would be inundation schemes.
4.05      Diversion demand of headworks structures would depend on local
conditions, but where possible a water duty of 2.3 1/s/ha would be achieved.
The gravity diversion headworks would normally be an open-type gated struc-
ture. This type is well suited for rivers with large variations of discharge
between low and flood stages. It would be designed to pass a discharge at
bankfull stage of approximately 1.5 times the discharge capacity of the
stream channel. A wide by-pass channel would be excavated to allow flood
flows exceeding this volume to by-pass the structure. The structure would be
of reinforced concrete with verticle slide gates, normally with manually
operated hoists. The outlet stilling pool would be depressed and lengthened
to account for retrogression and protected with riprap founded on a gravel
filter. A gatekeeper would be housed near the structure. The substructure
of pumping plants would be of reinforced concrete and the buildings would be
of concrete, brick or wood. Buildings would be set to elevations above the
25-year flood level, or otherwise protected from damage from this frequency
flood. A minimum of three pumps would normally be installed to provide
regulation of flow. Since most schemes are in remote areas, it is expected
that most installations would be diesel powered. An operator would be housed
nearby.



- 10 -
4.06      Convaeyance systems would consist of unlined and concrete-lined
earth channels, glass-reinforced plastic flumes, and concrete pipes in some
Kedah schemes which would be served by pumping under pressure from the Muda
system main canals. Earth drainage systems would be constructed to remove
stagnant water from depressions and to prevent water logging. Drains would
be sized to discharge a 5-year frequency storm in 72 hours. Earth bunds
along rivers and shorelines would be provided where needed to protect padi
areas from floods or sea water. Tidal gates would be provided on drain
outlets as appropriate. Farm roads of minimum 3 m width, and bridges and
culverts would be built as required for access. Land clearing would be
included in new land areas where forest cover is too dense for removal by
the farmers themselves.
Subproject Preparation and Evaluation Procedure
4.07      In order to ensure that each scheme proposed for implementation
under the project is technically feasible and economically viable, procedures
have been devised to utilize inputs of economics expertise from the MOA's
Planning and Development Division, and soils and agronomic expertise from the
Soils and Crop Production Branches of the Federal Department of Agriculture
(DOA) in the preparation, selection, evaluation, and monitoring of project
schemes. These procedures, which are based on existing practice and which
were determined jointly with the agencies concerned, would include six steps,
summarized as follows:
(a)  initial review of identified schemes, including preliminary
assessment by State DID Directors of reliable water availability
for a minimum of one full padi crop and assessment by State Directors
of Agriculture of the suitability of scheme area soils for irrigated
padi production;
(b)  preparation of scheme proposals, including topographic surveys and
mapping, preliminary layouts and estimates of potential cropping
intensity, and cost estimates and economic analysis by State DID
Directors, and assessments of soil fertility, feasible cropping
calendars, and present and potential yields by State Directors of
Agriculture;
(c)  review of scheme proposals by a Preparation and Evaluation Team
(para 5.02) consisting of planning engineers from DID, agronomists
and soil scientists seconded from the relevant branches of DOA, and
agricultural economists seconded from MOA. This team would refine
estimates of water resources, agricultural yields, and socioeconomic
data, on the basis of which the Project Coordinator (para. 5.01)
would determine priority schemes and arrange schedules of field
visits by the Evaluation Team;
(d)  field visits to scheme areas by the Preparation and Evaluation
Team, on the basis of which the team would produce an Evaluation
Report and approve detailed designs;



- 11 -
(e)  submission of full Evaluation Reports for review by the Bank prior
to implementation of the estimated 10-15 schemes costing over
M$3.0 million, and summary data forms for the remaining schemes
costing less than M$3.0 million; and
(f)  monitoring of progress of completed schemes by the Preparation and
Evaluation Team, including assessments of scheme benefits, operation
and maintenance standards, involvement of farmers, and effectiveness
of supporting services. The team would be assisted in this exercise
by advisors to be provided under the project (para. 4.12).
4.08      The preparation and evaluation procedure outlined above would be
modified slightly for Sarawak and Sabah, because of the distance of those
States from Kuala Lumpur, their large area, and the autonomy of their Depart-
ments of Agriculture. Steps (a) through (c) would proceed as above, but for
purposes of field visits special state-level evaluation teams would be
organized in each State. Federal DID engineers and an MOA agricultural
economist would visit each State semi-annually to review draft Evaluation
Reports and inspect selected proposed scheme areas, on the basis of which
final reports or summary data forms would be prepared for submission to the
Bank. At the initiation of the project the full Preparation and Evaluation
Team would visit Sabah and Sarawak to advise the state-level teams on the
standard preparation and evaluation procedures to be followed and to make
reconnaissance visits to selected scheme areas to familiarize themselves with
the range of local conditions.
Hydrological and Soils Investigations
4.09      Probably the most important aspect of design for these small-scale
systems is the selection and evaluation of the water source, usually in the
absence of any flow records for the stream in question. The most critical
hydrologic information is the dependability of the water supply, that is, the
minimum flow of a specified duration which would occur with specified proba-
bility. The normal practice in Malaysia is to use the 7-day low flow with a
1-in-5-year probability of recurrence as the design flow which determines
the area which can be irrigated from a given source. In a few cases (mostly
the larger rivers) direct observations would be analyzed to estimate the
design low flow. In other cases, records from adjacent catchments would be
correlated and extrapolated to produce a simulated record for the stream in
question. This procedure would be supplemented by a study of local water use
and the procedure to be described below. For the majority of cases, the
design low flow would be computed by a procedure involving the use of regional
characteristics. This is known as Hydrological Procedure No. 12 and was
recently developed by DID, with consultant assistance (ENEX, New Zealand).
This method relies on frequency analysis of existing records, regionalization
of annual minimum flow frequency curves (four regions are used for Peninsular
Malaysia) and correlation of low flows with catchment areas and annual
precipitation. Calculations based on the procedure would be supplemented
wherever possible by field observations, questioning of local residents and
by installing measuring devices as part of the project.



- 12 -
4.10      Soil surveys would be undertaken by state level DOA staff supple-
mented where necessary by staff from the Federal Soils Branch (para. 5.02).
These surveys would assess the proportion of each major soil series in the
area, and against each series report texture and permeability, and taking
into account topography and drainage classify the area with regard to its
suitability for padi or upland crops in the wet and dry seasons. The fer-
tility status of the soils would also be assessed and likely fertilizer
requirements estimated.
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
4.11      Vehicles, portable pumps, and excavation, earth-moving, and other
equipment would be purchased under the project to improve the capability of
State DID Departments to operate and maintain completed small schemes. The
equipment would be allocated to state and district units according to the O&M
requirements of completed schemes. The State DID Departments operate equip-
ment maintenance shops and yards in districts with extensive irrigation
facilities and near State capitals, and Federal DID operates a central
maintenance shop in Ipoh where heavy equipment is repaired and parts are
fabricated.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.12      The State and Federal DIDs have had considerable experience in the
planning, design, construction and operation of irrigation and drainage
systems and have built up a cadre of well-trained technical staff. The
Government has recognized, however, that technical assistance and overseas
training would be useful in broadening DID's capabilities in planning and
design, in introducing new ideas from other countries, in codifying existing
procedures and in assisting DID in upgrading the standard of operation and
maintenance for all its systems. Therefore, technical assistance for DID and
overseas training for the agency's staff would be provided under the project.
The technical assistance component would include engagement of three advisors,
for a total of about 85 man-months, who would assist the agency in upgrading
and documentation of procedures for engineering design, operation and main-
tenance, and planning and technical monitoring of irrigation schemes.
Assurances have been obtained that the qualifications, experience, and terms
and conditions of employment of the advisors would be satisfactory to the
Bank. The training component would include intermediate-term study tours
with irrigation agencies in developed countries for eight DID staff. These
tours, which would total about 48 man-months, would provide theoretical and
on-the-job training in design, operation, and maintenance of irrigation
systems.
Rompin/Endau Feasibility Study
4.13      A consultant feasibility study of the proposed Rompin/Endau irri-
gation and land settlement project would be included in the project. The
Rompin/Endau area in Pahang State comprises a gross area of 47,000 ha, nearly
all of which is virgin swamp jungle. Topographic and preliminary soils sur-
veys have indicated that almost 16,000 ha of this area are suitable for padi
cultivation. Preliminary assessments indicate that water resources in the
area would support this level of development. Physical development of these
resources is however subject to the availability of a large padi farming



- 13 -
community which must be progressively established by immigrating settlers
from other regions of the country in phase with infrastructure development.
The study would begin with the collection of data on relevant factors, proceed
through the examination of various alternative development strategies for the
area and preliminary design and layout of irrigation and drainage systems,
road networks, and settlements, and eventuate in a thorough economic analysis
of the costs and benefits of the recommended approach. The study is expected
to require 100 man-months of international professional consultant services
over an 18-month period. Terms of reference for the study (Annex 8) were
agreed upon with the Government and consultants are expected to be appointed
by December 31, 1977. Assurances have been obtained that consultants would be
engaged for the study whose qualifications, experience, and terms and condi-
tions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Implementation Schedule
4.14      The project would be implemented over a period of five years, with
all works expected to be completed by June 30, 1982. A first tranche of about
10 schemes are being prepared following the procedure outlined in paras.
4.07-4.08. These schemes would be reviewed by the Preparation and Evaluation
Team and submitted to the Bank for approval immediately after loan signing, to
permit early initiation of the construction program. The volume of construction
activity would gradually accelerate through the fourth year of project imple-
mentation, while topographic survey, layout, design, and evaluation of most
project schemes would be completed by the end of the third year of project
implementation. Equipment acquisition would be phased with the completion of
schemes. Technical assistance and training activities, and the Rompin/Endau
feasibility study, would be initiated at the commencement of the project and
substantially completed by December 1979. Further details are presented in
Annexes 4-8 and summarized in Annex 10.
Cost Estimates
4.15      Total project costs are estimated at US$89.0 million, of which
US$39.0 million (44%) would be foreign exchange. Total cost estimates for
the irrigation scheme construction program are based on cost estimates for
each of the 195 schemes proposed for inclusion in the project, which were
prepared by the State Directors of Drainage and Irrigation on the basis of
preliminary layouts, field survey estimates of earthwork and land acquisition
quantities and numbers of structures required, and unit costs for recently
tendered works of similar nature. Cost estimates for equipment are based
on recent suppliers' quotations, net of taxes and duties, while those for
overseas training are based on fees and expenses currently charged for similar
training programs at irrigation agencies in developed countries. Unit costs
for technical assistance and the Rompin/Endau feasibility study are based on
currently prevailing fees and expenses for individual advisors and consulting
firm services in the region. Physical contingencies of 15% on construction
costs and 10% on equipment have been included. All cost estimates have been
adjusted to mid-1977 levels based on recent Malaysian and international infla-
tionary trends. Expected price increases due to inflation of 9% in 1977-79 and
8% thereafter have been included for civil works, technical assistance, consul-
tant services, and related physical contingencies. For equipment, price
increases of 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% thereafter have been allowed. Expected
price increases amount to 18% of total project costs.



- 14 -
4.16      Detailed project costs are given in Annexes 4-9 and are summarized
below:
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Component
--- (M$ million) ----    ---(US$ million) ----       (%)
Construction program   88.8    62.6   151.4    35.3    24.8    60.1           41
Operation and main-
tenance equipment      0.3      5.2     5.5      0.1      2.1     2.2       95
Technical assistance    0.1       1.0      1.1      -       0.4     0.4       90
Training                  -       0.2      0.2      -       0.1     0.1      100
Rompin/Endau feasi-
bility study           0.3      1.7     2.0      0.1      0.7     0.8       90
Base cost estimate      89.5    70.7   160.2    35.5    28.1    63.6          44
Physical contin-
gencies               13.2    10.1    23.3       5.2     4.0      9.2       43
Expected price
increases             23.3    17.4    40.7       9.3     6.9    16.2        43
Total project cost    126.0    98.2   224.2    50.0    39.0    89.0           44
Financing
4.17      The proposed Bank loan of US$39 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirement of the project.  As this is a Federal project, all local
costs would be borne by GOM throughout the implementation period of the pro-
ject. Activities falling under constitutional State jurisdiction, such as
operation and maintenance of completed irrigation systems, would be financed
through normal GOM procedures as necessary. An assurance to this effect was
obtained from G014.
Procurement
4.18      Project schemes would be both small and widely dispersed.  The
average scheme would cost about US$260,000 (base cost, mid-1977 prices) to
construct, excluding costs of pumps, surveys, engineering, and supervision.
An average of three schemes would be constructed in each state per year, and
these schemes would average about 40 km distance apart, limiting the possible
economies of scale to be derived from, and the feasibility of, grouping con-
tracts. Furthermore, to speed implementation DID typically divides small
schemes into at least two contracts, so that work can begin on headworks
while the engineering of the canal system is finalized. The average civil



- 15 -
works contract tendered would thus be less than US$130,000 in value, and the
largest contract in the entire package is anticipated to be on the order of
US$2 million. The local contracting industry is extremely competitive and
strong, and local tendering is well managed and publicized. For these
reasons, the civil works element of the construction program (US$71.3 mil-
lion) would be carried out under contracts awarded after competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Bids would be accepted from foreign contractors who wish to
participate, and no preference margins, whether domestic or international,
would be utilized in the evaluation and award of civil works contracts.
4.19      The bidding documents, proposed advertising procedures, and prequal-
ification procedures if applicable, for the initial scheme to be implemented
under the project would be subject to review by the Bank prior to publishing
of invitations to bid. To avoid delays in the implementation of the large
number of subsequent contracts, the following procedure would be applied.
Following award of contracts, two copies of the signed contracts, a complete
tabulation and evaluation of bids received, and the recommendation of award
would be forwarded to the Bank. If contracts were awarded to other than the
lowest evaluated bidders, statements explaining the reasons for such actions
would also be required. In the absence of a satisfactory reason, the contract
would not be financed and an appropriate portion of the loan would be can-
celled. DID has had considerable experience in both international and local
tendering procedures under Bank projects, and is capable of administering the
procurement aspects of the present project efficiently.
4.20      Pumps and associated equipment to be installed in project schemes
(US$5.4 million), and operation and maintenance equipment and vehicles
(US$2.8 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of
these items. Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$20,000 each and
limited to a total of US$500,000, would be procured through normal Government
procedures.
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of
the ex-factory cost of items manufactured locally, and 90% of the total cost
of locally procured imported items. Disbursements for all civil works would
equal 46% of total costs. For overseas training, technical assistance, and
the Rompin/Endau feasibility study, disbursements would equal 100% of total
expenditures. Estimated expenditure and disbursement schedules for the pro-
ject, and a proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan, are given in
Annexes 10-11. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1982.
Accounts and Audits
4.22      All DID operations are subject to normal Government control and
audit procedures. Assurances were obtained that:



- 16 -
(a)  DID would maintain separate project accounts for the project;
(b) the Government's Auditor General or other auditors satisfac-
tory to the Bank would audit these accounts; and
(c) the Project Coordinator (para. 5.01) would send the audited
project accounts, together with the auditor's comments, to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.23      As padi is presently being cultivated under rainfed or crudely
irrigated conditions in most subproject areas, project irrigation works would
not greatly affect the scheme area environments, particularly as schistosomi-
asis is not present in Malaysia. Drainage works would reduce local mosquito
habitats.
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      All project works would be implemented by State Drainage and
Irrigation Departments under the technical control of the Federal Drainage
and Irrigation Department (DID) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). A
senior engineer would be appointed as Project Coordinator in the Projects
Division of DID to manage the project. He would be responsible for
programming and supervising subproject preparation, evaluation, and imple-
mentation as well as overall administration of budgeting, procurement,
disbursement, record-keeping, and reporting matters related to project
implementation. He will be assisted by a small administrative staff. The
appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project Coordinator, in
consultation with the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan.
5.02      A Preparation and Evaluation Team would be established to execute
the subproject preparation and evaluation procedures outlined in paras. 4.07-
4.08, and to program and monitor agricultural services (including extension,
input supply, marketing, and production credit), project charges and taxes,
and socio-economic effects of completed schemes. The team will consist of a
minimum of one agricultural economist from the MOA, a soil scientist or soil
surveyor from the Soils Branch of the DOA, a crop agronomist from the Crop
Production Branch of the DOA, and a senior planning engineer from DID.
Assurances were obtained that specialists in economics, soil science, and
agriculture would be seconded to the team from the relevant branches of the MOA
and DOA throughout the implementation period of the project. The team will be
headquartered in DID and will be administratively responsible to the Project
Coordinator, but team members will retain professional links with their own
agencies and units, who will provide backup support for their work. One of the
functions of the Preparation and Evaluation Team would be to prepare recommended
programs for supporting agricultural services for completed schemes. These
programs would be forwarded through the Project Coordinator to the Agriculture
Services Coordinating Committee (para 5.03) for review and follow-up action.



- 17 -
5.03      The Agriculture Services Coordinating Committee would consist of
the Principal Assistant Secretary for Special Projects in the MOA's Planning
and Development Division, the Directors of the Soils and Crop Production
Branches of the DOA, and representatives of the Directors General of the DOA,
the Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development Institute (MARDI) and the
Farmers Organization Authority (FOA), under the chairmanship of the Director
General of Drainage and Irrigation. The committee would meet as required to
ensure that full support and backup services are provided to the Federal
Evaluation Team by federal- and state-level agricultural agencies. In addition,
the committee would be responsible for programming and monitoring agricultural
services, including extension, input supply and marketing, and production
credit, for completed irrigation scheme areas. Similar arrangements are
operating effectively under the Western Johore Agricultural Development
Project (973-MA) and the North Kelantan Rural Development Project (1294-MA).
Assurances would be obtained that the committee would be established by
August 31, 1977, and that the necessary agricultural support services would
be made available to completed schemes.
5.04      At state level, the State DID Directors would be responsible for
initial project preparation and evaluation, and for eventual construction,
operation, and maintenance of schemes. The assistance of other state-level
agricultural agencies would however be required to ensure that subprojects
achieve their full agricultural, economic, and social potentials. Accord-
ingly, the State DID Director would regularly meet with the State Directors
of Agriculture and FOA, the local branch manager of the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM), the State Development Officer, and the Director of the State
Planning Unit under the auspices of the State Action Committee to program and
coordinate preparation and preliminary evaluation of new irrigation schemes
and agricultural development of completed schemes. In fulfilling these
functions, the state-level officers would follow the recommendations and
guidelines of the Preparation and Evaluation Team to the extent practicable.
Staffing
5.05      Incremental staffing requirements for project implementation at the
federal level include a senior engineer position in DID for the Project
Coordinator (para 5.01), and additional positions for an agricultural econo-
mist in the Economics and Statistics Branch of the MOA and for a soil scien-
tist and agronomist in the DOA to provide those units with the capability
to second expert staff to the Federal Evaluation Team throughout the imple-
mentation period of the project (para 5.02). The DOA would also require an
additional Agricultural Assistant and Agricultural Technician to support the
work of the Federal Evaluation Team, while the Planning Division of Federal
DID would require six additional design engineers and twelve engineering
assistants to complete design of project schemes on schedule. State DID
offices would require a total of 27 additional engineers and 178 engineering
assistants of various grades to implement the project, and an additional
22 irrigation inspectors and 61 overseers to operate and maintain completed
schemes (Annex 7), as well as considerable additional lower level field
staff. Special recruitment exercises may be necessary to ensure that these
staff positions are filled once they are approved, particularly in regard to
technical assistants and technicians. Assurances would be obtained at nego-
tiations that all required staff would be provided in a timely fashion, and
that arrangements would be made to finance state level staff required to
operate and maintain completed schemes.



- 18
Operation and Maintenance
5.06      Operation and maintenance (O&M) would consist of operation and
repair of headworks and pumping stations, bunds, and water control struc-
tures, deUilting of canals and drains, weed cutting, extension work with
farmers regarding scheduling of water supply and farm operations and system
improvement. Current financial O&M costs (excluding pumping energy costs)
experienced in each state are presented in Annex 3 for various types and
sizes of scheme. These costs range from below US$10/ha for controlled
drainage and large gravity systems in some states to about US$20/ha for most
gravity systems and US$35/ha for small pumping systems, which with pumping
energy costs included would rise to between US$50/ha and US$60/ha. These
financial costs overstate true economic costs considerably, as DID customar-
ily pays farmers the equivalent of about US$2.50/day for casual labor on
maintenance operations, far above the opportunity costs of farm labor, as a
social welfare measure and to gain acceptance of DID field operations in the
densely cultivated padi areas.
5.07      In the past DID O&M field staff have received most of their train-
ing on the job. To provide improved theoretical and practical training in
field level water management techniques, DID has prepared a Water Management
Training Center Project in cooperation with experts provided by the Japan
International Cooperation Agency. This project, which is expected to commence
in 1977, will provide centralized facilities and demonstration farms in the
Kemubu irrigation project area for medium-term training courses for DID
irrigation inspectors and overseers and DOA agricultural extension agents,
and short-term courses for more senior engineering and agricultural staff.
The Government of Japan is considering a proposal to provide expert advisors,
instructors, consultants, and equipment for the Center, while GOM has allo-
cated M$1.7 million under the Third Malaysia Plan for construction of facili-
ties and land development. The training programs, which should be under way
in 1978, are expected to contribute substantially to DID's O&M capability at
state level throughout the country.
Cost Recovery
5.08      Under the Malaysian Constitution all matters pertaining to land,
including the levying of irrigation and drainage rates for land in officially
gazetted irrigation and drainage areas, fall within the jurisdiction of the
State Governments. These rates vary widely from state to state (Annex 3),
but in general average about US$9/ha for areas with effective drainage and
irrigation facilities in Peninsular Malaysia. No rates are charged in Sabah
and Sarawak, as the settling of nomadic indigenous people in the stable
pattern of irrigated padi production is seen as a basic policy to protect the
forest environment from slash-and-burn cultivation (Annex 12) and to provide
the basis for subsequent economic and social development, and imposition of
taxes on irrigated land is viewed as an obstacle to this basic policy. In
addition to irrigation and drainage rates, padi farmers in the Peninsular
States pay an Islamic padi production tithe (zakat) to the State Departments
of Religious Affairs, which use the receipts to finance the religious school
system, teachers' salaries, welfare expenses, and maintenance of mosques.



- 19 -
This tithe is compulsory for Moslem farmers /1 under State law, and nonpayment
is punishable by imprisonment or fine. Zakat payments are assessed on gross
padi production at rates ranging between 4% and 10%, with the average payment
equal to 7% of production according to socio-economic surveys undertaken
throughout the Peninsular States by the Economics and Statistics Branch of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Actual recorded payments in small scheme areas
in recent years have ranged from 90 kg/ha to 250 kg/ha of padi, equivalent to
between US$16/ha and US$45/ha in domestic farm-gate prices. Total payments
by padi farmers in Peninsular Malaysia are thus generally equivalent to the
full costs of operating existing systems (para. 5.06).
5.09      The capital costs of project schemes would average about US$1,100/
ha while incremental O&M costs would amount to approximately US$20/ha per
annum at full development. Assuming a 10% discount rate and a repayment
period of 25 years, full cost recovery from project farmers would require
incremental annual payments of US$141/ha for the period. Actual average
incremental irrigation and drainage rate payments, assuming official gazet-
ting of scheme areas as irrigation and drainage areas and passage of pending
legislation in several Peninsular states to increase the rates, would amount
to about US$6/ha. Average incremental zakat payments are estimated at US$25/
ha at full project development. These combined payments would represent a
cost recovery index of 22% and a rent recovery index of 35%,/3 and would more
than compensate for increases in state expenditures for O&M. It should be
noted, however, that O&M of irrigation facilities in Malaysia is totally
divorced from water rate collections,/2 that irrigation O&M is financed out
of general revenues supported by a highly efficient and generally progressive
tax system, and that the level of O&M is generally satisfactory and is not
constrained by a shortage of funds. Considering these factors, the fact that
the overwhelming majority of project beneficiaries would receive total
incomes below the current national poverty line even after full development
(para. 6.06), and the special problems Sabah and Sarawak face in encouraging
migratory tribes to adopt settled irrigated agriculture (para. 5.08), the
present structure and level of water charges are considered acceptable.
Assurances were obtained that the State Governments of Peninsular Malaysia
would continue to collect charges for operation, maintenance and recovery of
capital costs; that the level of these charges would be determined taking
into account incentives to the farmers, the farmers' capacity to pay,
and other taxes and charges imposed upon them; and that the Government would
exchange views with the Bank from time to time on the level of these charges.
6. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME
6.01      With most of its arable land and much of its labor force devoted to
the production of tree crops and forest products, Malaysia has long been a
large rice importer. The gap between rice consumption and domestic production
/1 Virtually all padi farmers in Peninsular Malaysia are Malay and hence
legally liable Moslems.
/2 Irrigation and drainage rates, together with quit rents and land taxes,
are paid by landowners to the State Land Offices, and not to DID.
/3 Exact indices are derived for three sample schemes in Annex 13, Table 10.



- 20 -
has been narrowed substantially in recent years through the impressive pro-
gram of large-scale irrigation development outlined above (paras. 2.04-2.07),
although most of the recent increases in production can be attributed to the
expansion of dry season production (double-cropping) and relatively little to
increases in yields (Annex 12). Current annual national production of
approximately 1.35 million tons of rice (2 million tons of padi) still falls
short of national consumption by about 250,000 tons, and demand is estimated
to increase by approximately 53,000 tons per annum.
Production
6.02      Project works would provide farmers with the water control they
require to increase yields on presently cropped land, with the techniques and
varieties presently known to them and with small proportional increases in
input usage which would not be economical unless present risks of late and
insufficient delivery and drainage of water, and of river and tidal flooding,
are reduced. These works would further permit farmers to capitalize on
future improvements in available high-yielding varieties and on parallel
improvements in agricultural extension, credit, and other supporting services.
In addition, the project would bring approximately 13,000 ha of new land
under irrigation (and cultivation) for the first time, and would permit
double-cropping of about 20,000 ha presently cropped only in the wet season.
The final overall cropping intensity in proposed scheme areas would be 158%
on 53,000 ha (84,000 cropped ha) of padi land, as against a present cropping
intensity of 109% on 40,000 ha (44,000 cropped ha) of padi land (Annex 14,
Table 1). These developments would result in an incremental increase in
annual padi production of 147,000 tons by full development (1988), equivalent
to about 96,000 tons of milled rice, or approximately 17% of the projected
incremental national consumption by that time.
6.03      Present and potential padi yields vary widely among the 195 proposed
scheme areas (Annex 4), averaging 1.9 ton/ha in the main season and 2.3 ton/ha
in the few areas where dry season cropping is possible at present. Yields on
presently cropped land are projected to increase by an average of 0.9 ton/ha
by full development due to the improved water control facilities to be pro-
vided under the project, resulting in average yields of 2.8 and 3.2 ton/ha
in the two seasons. On newly cropped land yields at full development are
projected at 2.5 ton/ha in the main season and 2.8 ton/ha in the dry season.
The maximum projected yields for the best-situated individual schemes are
4.3 ton/ha in the dry season and 3.8 ton/ha in the wet season. The average
projections were derived from projections for each individual scheme based on
current yields in nearby existing schemes and local conditions, and are well
within the technical potentials of existing varieties and farm practices,
requiring only the provision of effective irrigation and drainage facilities.
Provision of improved agricultural extension on a nationwide basis under the
proposed Agriculture Extension Project and further improvements in national
agricultural marketing, input supply, and credit programs (Annex 1) could
probably raise yields in the scheme areas by an additional 0.5 ton/ha per
season.
Marketing and Prices
6.04      All incremental production due to the project would be marketed in
Malaysia, substituting for imported high grades of Chinese and Thai rice.



- 21 -
For purposes of economic analysis, it is assumed that the mixture of grades
to be produced under the project would equal in value the standard 15% broken
Tha4 grade, typically traded internationally at prices 10% below those of the
Thai 5% broken grade for which the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department makes long-term projections. The price of this grade of rice is
p::ojected to rise from US$300/ton in 1977 to US$390/ton at full project
development, in 1977 currency values f.o.b. Bangkok. Financial farm-gate padi
pDices 'fn Malaysia are based on a Government-controlled Guaranteed Minimum
Price (GMP) which is adjusted before each season to reflect world price
_rends. The GIIP currently ranges from US$187/ton for short-grained padi to
US$200/ton for first-class long-grained padi, roughly equivalent to the
current world market price quoted above (Annex 12). These prices, with minor
pi-ice deductions for transport, moisture content, and foreign matter, are
paid by all padi buyers legally licensed by the National Padi and Rice
Authority, including private shopkeepers, millers, and padi brokers; coopera-
tive societies and cooperative banks; Government-supported Farmers Organiza-
tions; and the mills run by the Authority itself. With Malaysia's energetic
and competitive private commercial trading and milling sector, and numerous
Government and cooperative milling and marketing installations throughout the
countryside, selling and milling padi at fair competitive prices usually does
not present problems for Malaysian padi farmers.
Farm Incomes
6.05      The vast majority of Malaysian padi farmers receive incomes below
tf'e national relative poverty lines, chiefly because of the small (though
evenly distributed) sizes of padi farms.IA Recent national surveys indicate
Lthat 78% of all farming families primarily dependent on padi production
recelved incomes below the poverty line (US$162 per capita) in 1974, while
the incomes of operators of mixed farms are estimated to be much lower.
Among such farmers on doublecropped farms, 64% were estimated to live in
poverty at the end of 1975,/2 and eliminating the states of Kedah and Perlis
(w'hich include the relatively prosperous Muda Project area), 78% of double-
o:opping specialist farmers were below the poverty line. This figure still
uncerstates the proportion of poor farmers in small irrigation areas, which
are generally less prosperous than the larger irrigation areas. According
r,_o the national surveys, double-cropping farmers in states which are totally
dcependent on small-scale irrigation were almost universally poor,/3 and the
large: number of farmers dependent on single-cropping of padi received
proportionally lower incomes.
S CS      To provide a more precise picture of agricultural and economic con-
dit'i ons in representative small scheme areas, the Economics and Statistics
3i 93% of all Malaysian padi farmers operate less than 3 ha of padi land.
/?  D obiems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia, IBRD Report No. 838-MA, Annex E,
p. 16.
/3 Between 95% and 100% of double-cropping padi farmers in Johor, Pahang,
Nalacca, Negri Sembilan, and Trengganu were in poverty, according to
the surveys.



- 22 -
Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture conducted detailed socio-economic
surveys of the Kerandang Timur /1 and Kota II /2 scheme areas in October
1976. Average total family income in Kerandang Timur is currently about
US$390 (US$91 per capita), of which 48% is derived from padi farming, 22%
from other crops, 22% from off-farm work and 8% from remittances. Median
family income is US$331 (US$77 per capita), and income is fairly evenly
distributed with no family surveyed receiving over US$1,150 (US$267 per
capita) from all sources. The more prosperous families receive a lower
proportion of their income from padi production, with the upper 10% receiving
only 34% of their income from this crop. 95% of Kerandang Timur families
earned total incomes below the national poverty line./3 In Kota II, average
total family income is currently US$648 (US$122 per capita), of which 41% is
derived from padi farming, 3% from other crops, 54% from off-farm work, and
2% from remittances. Median family income is US$504 (US$95 per capita), and
income is again fairly evenly distributed with the upper 10% of families
receiving an average income of US$1,902 (US$359 per capita) of which only 19%
was derived from padi farming. 87% of Kota II families earned total incomes
below the national poverty line./3
6.07      Land tenure and rental arrangements for padi land vary widely
throughout Malaysia. In Sabah and Sarawak almost all wet padi land is owner-
operated, while in Peninsular Malaysia 60% of all padi land is operated by
owners and the remaining 40% is rented by tenant farmers through fixed rents
or leases payable in cash or padi (predominantly in the west coast states) or
through crop-sharing arrangements which are often based on a 50% split after
the deduction of costs of cash inputs (predominantly in the east coast states).
In Peninsular Malaysia 48% of all padi farmers are owners of all the padi land
they operate, 25% own part of their land and rent the remainder, and 27% are
pure tenants. In the Kerandang Timur scheme area (para. 6.06) 56% of the
land is owner-operated and 44% rented on a share-cropping basis with current
rental payments averaging US$160/ha per season. 50% of the farmers in the
area are pure owner-operators, 33% are pure tenants, and 17% own and rent padi
land. In the Kota II scheme area 31% of the land is owner-operated and 69%
is rented on a fixed rental system with current rental payments averaging
about US$140/ha per season. 24% of the farmers in the area are pure owner-
operators, 62% are pure tenants, and 14% own and rent padi land. Land tenure
arrangements are in fact more complex than the above descriptions imply, with
many farmers renting land from each other or from close relatives. The land
tenure arrangements are not considered exploitative, and most of the nonoperat-
ing landowners are retired farmers whose 1-3 ha of padi represents the sole
source of income aside from remittances from children. The existing Padi
Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act of 1967 is in
general a fair and balanced land tenancy law which provides for fair fixed
/1 Trengganu Scheme No. 7 (Map 12694).
/2 Kedah Scheme No. 1 (Map 12694).
/3 The national per capita income in 1975 was US$720 and the current national
per capita poverty line is about US$215. Average family size is 4.3
members in Kerandang Timur and 5.3 members in Kota II.



- 23 -
rents for various classes of padi land and reasonable security of tenure for
tenants. However, the Act has yet to be effectively enforced. Without such
enforcement it is likely that rental payments would increase by an average of
US$100/ha as a result of the project. Although in most cases the incremental
rents w-uuJd be paid to low-income individuals, equitable and effective Govern-
ment policy on this matter requires continual careful assessment of tenancy
conditions and relations. To gain a clearer view of the overall tenancy
situation and the proper course of future government action, assurances were
obtained that all Evaluation Reports and summary data forms prepared for
project schemes (para. 4.07) would include analyses of land tenure conditions,
and that proposals regarding possible amendments to the Padi Cultivators Act
and effective enforcement of the Act would be prepared by GOM and forwarded
to the Bank for its comments by December 31, 1979.
6.08      The project would raise real net padi farm incomes of project
farmers by an average of about US$270 per family (US$54 per capita) by 1988
assuming present farmgate prices. At full project development no more than
20% of the beneficiaries would receive incomes above the poverty line, as
the more affluent families in the scheme areas are generally less dependent
on padi production and would receive proportionally smaller incremental
incomes due to the project (para. 6.06). Given the small size of padi farms
these income increases represent the maximum impact currently attainable
through irrigation intensification consonant with the achievement of reason-
able economic rates of return. The project would raise few padi farmers
above poverty income levels, but it would provide large proportional increases
in income to one of the largest identifiable poverty groups in Malaysian
society, and would provide a sufficient period of time for the planning and
initiation of land settlement, industrialization, and other development
programs to assist the rural poor.
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
7.01      The project would provide the infrastructure facilities required to
raise crop yields, production, and farm incomes of padi farmers throughout
Malaysia. It is thus closely in line with the following major objectives of
Malaysian Government policy.
(a)  to improve the productivity and incomes of small farmers in
particular and the poorest segments of Malaysian society in
general;
(b)  to reduce urban-rural and ethnic (Bumiputra /L - non-Bumiputra)
income disparities;
(c)  to reduce the national dependence on imported food grains; and
(d)  to settle the Borneo peoples in stable agricultural pursuits,
in order to preserve the forest environment of Sarawak and
Sabah and to provide a foundation for the economic develop-
ment of those peoples and the two states.
/1 Bumiputra refers to the indigenous peoples of Malaysia, including the
Malays and the indigenous Borneo peoples.



- 24 -
7.02      Aside from furthering basic national policies, the project would
yield high economic returns. The expected economic rate of return of the
overall project would be 23%, on the basis of the proposed list of subproj-
ects (Annex 4). This rate of return is relatively insensitive to increases
in base construction costs over the best current engineering estimates,
approaching 19% in the event of a 35% increase in such costs (Annex 14). The
rate of return is high because of the short construction periods, rapid
projected agricultural development due to the long experience of the farmers
in padi cultivation and their repeated requests for the works being proposed,
and the low opportunity cost of padi smallholders' labor.
7.03      Three representative proposed small schemes were evaluated in
detail on the basis of preliminary designs and cost estimates prepared by
DID, socioeconomic field surveys and agro-economic analyses executed by the
Economics and Statistics Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 6.06),
and field visits by the appraisal mission. The Kota II scheme (Kedah Scheme
No. 1), a relatively large (1,450 ha) pumping scheme in the Muda River delta,
would yield a rate of return of 23%. The Kerandang Timur scheme (Trengganu
Scheme No. 4), a medium-sized (400 ha) gravity scheme which would utilize the
natural flow of the Kerandang River and the return drainage flows of the
large Besut Irrigation Scheme, would yield a rate of return of 17%. The
Bendang Behrang scheme (Perak Scheme No.7), was selected as a representative
of the low end of the range of scheme sizes (60 ha). This scheme would
involve the diversion of a perennial small stream to permit the irrigation by
gravity of newly cleared padi land, and would yield a rate of return of 26%.
No schemes would be accepted for inclusion in the project unless a thorough
technical and economic evaluation indicates an expected rate of return of 10%
or greater, except in areas where extreme poverty and absence of alternative
employment opportunities prevail, where an 8% cutoff would be applied (paras.
4.02 and 4.07-4.08).
7.04      In carrying out the economic analyses, the efficiency price of rice
was derived from the Bank's world market price projections (Annex 12). Input
prices used reflect the elimination of all known tariffs and subsidies. All
farm labor was valued at a shadow wage rate of M$2.50/day (US$1.00/day). An
exchange rate of M$2.52 to US$1.00, equivalent to the freely fluctuating
market value of the Malaysian currency from August 1976 to January 1977, was
used to equate domestic and international values. This value is considered
to represent a relatively undistorted rate and was adopted for the purposes
of economic analysis.
7.05      The major risk involved in a project of this kind is that completed
schemes, small and dispersed throughout the country, would not be properly
operated and maintained. This result could occur for many reasons, including
lack of staff, funds, and equipment, excessive centralization and poor orga-
nization in the implementing agency, and excessive concentration on new con-
struction at the expense of O&M. These factors are unlikely to occur in the
present project. The Government has already agreed in principle to ensure
that incremental O&M staff requirements would be met during implementation
of the project, and a formal assurance on this point has been obtained at
negotiations (para. 5.05). Funding of O&M expenditures for all proposed
schemes would amount to about M$4.2 million per year at full project develop-
ment, or less than 8% of current annual DID budget authorizations for O&M.



- 25 -
Assurances were also obtained that such financing would be provided in
the future, if necessary through normal grant procedures for the poorer
states which have been utilized for decades (para. 4.17). O&M eqllipment
would be procured under the project (para. 4.11) and distributed to the
states and districts as needed. An advisor would be engaged under the
project to assist DID in further upgrading its O&M capability (para. 4.12).
DID is well organized at both federal and state levels, and responsibility
for O&M is delegated to state and district units as their major functional
responsibility in a decentralized system. Responsibility for monitoring of
O&M standards would be included in the terms of reference of the Preparation
and Evaluation Team to be established under the project (para. 4.07). In
addition, under Malaysia's democratic political system farmers continuously
bring lapses in performance of Government agencies quite forcefully to the
attention of their Federal Members of Parliament and State Assemblymen, which
usually results in publicity in the national press and immediate corrective
action by the concerned agencies. Finally, DID is currently operating and
maintaining facilities throughout the country, including some constructed 80
years ago, at a comparatively high standard of efficiency, and there are no
indications that the agency will allow that standard to deteriorate.
7.06      A subsidiary risk associated with the project is that completed
schemes would not be provided with adequate agricultural supporting services,
both because of the geographical dispersion of the schemes and because
the implementing agency, DID, is not primarily responsible for providing
those services. For this reason, the multi-agency Preparation and Evaluation
Team (para. 5.02) would be established to program and monitor such services
for each scheme, and the Agricultural Services Coordinating Committee would
be established to ensure that such services are actually provided to each
scheme (para. 5.03). The proposed national extension project would upgrade
the capability of State Departments of Agriculture to effectively serve
scheme areas through agricultural extension. Despite anticipated improve-
ments in the level and coverage of agricultural supporting services, present
deficiencies in such services were taken into account in estimating future
yields from completed schemes (para. 6.03).
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment on the following major points:
(a) the Government would employ individual advisors in engineering
design, operation and maintenance, and engineering planning and
monitoring of irrigation schemes (para. 4.12), and consultants to
assist in the planning of the Rompin/Endau project (para. 4.13),
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) all local costs would be borne by GOM throughout the implementa-
tion period of the project, and the operation and maintenance



- 26 -
of completed irrigation systems would be financed through normal
GOM grant procedures as necessary (para. 4.17);
(c) DID would maintain separate project accounts for the project;
and such accounts would be audited by auditors satisfactory to
the Bank and forwarded to the Bank within nine months of the
close of each financial year (para. 4.22);
(d) specialists in economics, soil science, and agriculture would be
seconded to the Preparation and Evaluation Team from MOA and DOA
throughout the implementation period of the project (para. 5.02);
(e) an Agricultural Services Coordinating Committee would be estab-
lished to ensure technical support for the Preparation and Evalu-
ation Team and to ensure the provision of agricultural supporting
agricultural supporting services for completed schemes, and
necessary agricultural support services would be made available to
completed schemes (para. 5.03);
(f) all required staff would be provided in a timely fashion, and
arrangements would be made to finance the state level staff
required to operate and maintain completed schemes (para. 5.05);
(g) the State Governments of Peninsular Malaysia would continue
to collect water charges whose level would be determined
taking into account incentives to the farmers, the farmers'
capacity to pay, and other taxes and charges imposed upon
them (para. 5.09); and
(h)  all Evaluation Reports and summary data forms .repared for project
schemes (para. 4.07) would include analyses of land tenure condi-
tions, and proposals regarding possible amendments to the Padi
Cultivators Act and effective enforcement of the Act would be
prepared by GOM and forwarded to the Bank by December 31, 1979
(para. 6.07).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Loan would be the appointment
of a suitably qualified and experienced Project Coordinator in consultation
with the Bank (para. 5.01).
8.03      With the above assurances the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$39 million, with a 17-year m-.turity and a grace period of 3-1/2
years.



ANNI,A I
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Conditions of Rice Production in Malaysia
RESOURCE BASE
Climate
1.        Malaysia has an equatorial climate.  Except for the highlands, the
mean monthly temperature is remarkably uniform year-round, fluctuating
between 22 and 28 0C. Likewise, the relative humidity is uniformly high,
normally within the range 82-86%. Radiation levels are high and more
than adequate for padi, although prolonged rainfall and overcast conditions,
especially during the northeast monsoon on the east coast, may result in
short periods of suboptimal radiation. In general terms, the temperature and
radiation regime is favorable for year-round padi production. The key
climatic constraint is rainfall.
2.        The rainfall pattern is dominated by the northeast monsoon in the
November-March period, the southwest monsoon in the May-September period and
two transitional or intermonsoonal periods in March-April and September-October.
ljonsoonal rainfall occurs as the warm moisture-laden air passes over the land
surface and is uplifted due to the terrain and convection currents. The east
coast receives most of its rainfall from the northeast monsoon which declines
in intensity as it passes over the mountain ranges to the west coast.
Conversely, portions of the west coast obtain most rainfall from the southwest
monsoon which has only a minor influence on the east coast. However, the
mountain ranges of North Sumatera reduce the intensity of the southwest
monsoon and have a sheltering effect on parts of the west coast. During the
intermonsoonal period, the convergence of northeast and southwest air streams
results in uplift and large-scale cloud development. Persistent and heavy
"boundary" rains often occur at the onset of the monsoon seasons. Heavy,
localized, short duration, convectional rainfall is also common throughout
Malaysia due to the differential heating and cooling of the land surface
leading to the establishment of convection currents.
3.        The amount and distribution of rainfall is quite variable from one
region to another. Five main rainfall regions can be identified on the
Peninsula.  The Northwest region lies north of 5 N and west of the mountain
ranges and includes Penang, Kedah and Perlis, the major rice growing areas in
Peninsular Malaysia. Total annual rainfall on the Kedah-Perlis plain ranges
from 1,600 mm to 2,250 mm, while the higher land in the region of Kedah Peak,
southern Kedah and Penang receives from 2,750 mm to 3,500 mm per year. The
region is characterized by a very dry period from December to February and a
short dry spell in June. At Alor Setar, 36% of annual rainfall occurs during



ANNEX 1
Page 2
the northeast monsoon period, 41% during the southwest monsoon and 23% during
the intermonsoonal period. Peak rainfall occcurs during the intermonsoonal
periods in October and to a lesser extent in April-May. Rainfed rice is
traditionally grown in the July-December period. There is not sufficient
rain in the December-June period to sustain a crop without supplementary
irrigation.
4.        The Eastern region covers the whole of the east coast from Kelantan
south to Johore. Although one of the higher rainfall regions in the Peninsula,
rainfall is poorly distributed except in southern Johore. Over 60% of annual
rain falls during the northeast monsoon in the November-March period, with
over 40% falling in the November-December period in the northern States of
Kelantan and Trengganu, the main rice growing area of the region. The very
heavy precipitation causes flash flooding of the river systems and inundation
of padi fields to a depth of 1-1.5 meters for several days two to three times
per season. Rainfall during the southwest monsoon period is unreliable and
not adequate to support a second rice crop. In fact, prolonged hot dry
periods from May to August often seriously affect the yield of rainfed upland
crop s.
5.        The Western region covers the western lowlands from 2 040' to 5 N,
much of the interior and includes Negeri Sembilan, Selangor and a large
portion of Perak which is a major rice producing area. Total annual rainfall
ranges from 1,875 mm to 3,500 mm. About 50% falls during the northeast
monsoon period, 21% during the intermonsoonal periods, but only 29% during
the southwest monsoon due to the sheltering effect of North Sumatera. As in
the Northwest region, there are two wet periods in April and October-November
and two dry perods in February and July. However, the dry periods are less
pronounced and rarely exceed one month. The main rice growing season is
based on the intermonsoonal rains of October-November and the follow-up rains
from the northeast monsoon.
6.        The Port Dickson-Muar Coastal region covers a narrow coastal strip
about 25 km wide running from Port Dickson to Mluar, but is largely restricted
to the State of Melaka. Annual rainfall here averages 2,250 mm. There is
only one pronounced peak in rainfall in October and one pronounced dry period
in January-February. About 36% of rainfall occurs during the northeast
monsoon period, but 45% falls during the southwest monsoon which is high for
the west coast. This is due to the development of "line squalls" or "Sumatras"
which develop in the Straits of Malacca and the presence of the Southern Air
Stream boundary which produces appreciable boundary rain in the June-August
period.
7.        The Southwest region covers southeast Negeri Sembilan, southwest
Pahang and western Johore. Annual rainfall ranges from 1,750 mm in southwest
Pahang up to 2,750 mm in Johore. The rainfall is fairly well distributed
throughout the year. April and October-November are the wettest months and
February and July the driest, but the maxima and minima are not pronouncel.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Rainfall in Sabah and Sarawak is also dominated by the monsoons and
there are similar regional variations to those described for the Peninsula.
However, the northeast monsoon is dominant in the major rice growing areas
and conditions are rather similar to those described for the Eastern region
of the Peninsula. Most of Sarawak receives over 3,000 mm of rain per annum.
In Sabah, the rainfall in the wet rice areas of the west coast lowland plains
typically exceeds 2,500 mm, but the interior plains falling within the rain
shadow of the Crocker Range typically receive below 2,000 mm annually.
Partly for this reason, an intricate system of traditional irrigation facili-
ties preceded the construction of DID facilities in the plains of Tambunan.
Soils
9.        About 70% of the soils in Peninsular 21alaysia are derived from the
weathering of primary rocks, e.g. granite, feldspar and mica, and sedimentary
and metamorphic rocks, e.g. sandstone, shale and limestone. Due to the hot,
humid climate and heavy rainfall, there has been intense weathering and
leaching of soluble compounds. Although many of the upland soils have good
depth, they are usually characterized by a predominance of kaolinitic clay,
low cation exchange capacity, low base saturation, low pH and low nutrient
status. As the bulk of the agricultural upland soils are free draining, have
a rather low moisture holding capacity and are undulating, they are not well
suited and have not been widely developed for rice production. The bulk of
the developed upland area is devoted to plantation crops, particularly rubber
and oil palm. Rice production is largely restricted to the alluvial soils of
the numerous river valleys and the coastal plains.
10.      1Many of the river systems in Malaysia are characterized by relatively
steep, narrow valleys with a predominance of rather coarsely textured, well
drained, undulating terrace soils not well suited to rice, and rather small
flood plains where rice is traditionally grown. These features coupled with
the large seasonal fluctuation in river flow largely explain why only 3% of
the land area of Peninsular Malaysia has been developed for rice production.
The major exceptions to this general observation are the flood plains in
Kedah, Kelantan and Perak, with these three states contributing more than 60%
of the wet padi area in the Peninsula. The soils of the riverine plains are
predominantly heavy, poorly-drained, silty clays, frequently overlying marine
alluvium close to the coast. These soils usually have a lower proportion of
kaolinitic clay, higher exchange capacity and slightly better nutrient status
than the upland soils. However, most have a moderate to low nitrogen status
and appreciable areas have a low phosphate status, and quite high applications
of fertilizer are required to optimize rice yield. There is quite a marked
difference between the alluvial soils of the west coast (e.g. Kedah) and the
east coast (e.g. Kelantan). East coast alluvial soils usually have a much
lower cation exchange capacity, lower base saturation and lower nutrient
status. Hence, rice yields on the east coast are often only 70-80% of those
achieved on the west coast given similar fertilizer input and management.
The practical implications of the above are that: the development of land
for irrigated rice is usually more profitable in the west coast environment
by virtue of higher yields; care is needed in selecting sites for dry-season



ANNEX 1
Page 4
irrigated rice on the smaller river systems due to the rather high permeability
of some of the terrace soils; and dry-season irrigation of upland crops is
likely to prove more profitable than padi cultivation on the lighter soil
areas in the longer term, once the technology and markets for these crops has
been further developed.
11.       The soils of the coastal plains comprise marine alluvium which is
often overlain by river alluvia, coarse sands, and peat and muck soils in
poorly drained depressions. Much of the coastal area comprises saline
Nipah palm and mangrove swamp. Such areas above tidal influence or where
protective bunds have been constructed have been successfully developed for
rice production, and some of the peat and muck soils have been brought into
production with the installation of controlled drainage schemes. It is
estimated that there are more than 2 million acres of peat and muck soils in
Peninsular Malaysia and about 3.5 million acres in Sarawak. Muck soils are
closely related to and occur along with peat soils, have between 35% and 70%
mineral matter, and are better described as organic clays. Most of the
coastal peat soils are highly acidic and often deficient in minor elements,
e.g. copper, zinc and molybdenum. Often, underlying marine clay has a high
sulphur content, which leads to acid sulphate conditions if the sulphurous
horizons are drained and allowed to oxidize. On the other hand, if there is
not reasonable drainage and aeration, hydrogen sulphide production occasionally
restricts crop growth. Some success has been achieved in pilot areas managing
peats for rice production with the use of lime and judicious water management.
However, yields are usually much lower than those achieved on mineral soils
and subsidence has proved a problem on some controlled drainage schemes where
the peat has been allowed to dry out and oxidize during the dry season.
Cultivation is also a problem on deep peat and muck soils. Currently, too
little is known about the best practical development and management methods
to advocate the development of peat soils for rice production on a large
scale. Nevertheless, appreciable areas of muck soils have been successfully
developed for rice production on the west coast of the Peninsula.
12.       The wet rice growing areas of Sarawak are largely restricted to the
flood plains on the coast and alluvial soils along the main river systems.
Recently deposited coastal and riverine alluvial soils are widespread on the
deltas and coastal flats and appear as narrow strips often a km or more wide
along the valleys. These form low humic gleys characterized by a high water
table and periodic flooding and are predominantly grey to brownish clays.
These alluvial soils vary but in general have better than average fertility
by Sarawak standards. Throughout much of the State, they are already devoted
to wet padi, and waterlogged conditions inhibit the cultivation of most other
crops. Much of the remaining irrigable land consists of acid organic soils
and peat, and the area of good alluvial soils suitable for rice production is
restricted. Rice production in Sabah is concentrated in the lowland plains
on the west coast and in the interior plains of Keningan, Tambunan, and
Ranau. In both regions, rice is typically planted on riverine alluvial
soils, generally of higher fertility than those of Peninsular Malaysia.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
CULTURAL A1ID TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF PRODUCTION
Rice Varineies
13.       Traditionally, Malaysian farmers have selected, named and distribu-
ted their own rice varieties with the result that some 70-100 indica lines
have been regularly grown throughout the country. Ilost were tall, leafy
varieties, prone to lodging and with a maturity ranging from 140 to 180 days.
Under good management conditions and in favored areas, yields of up to
3.5 ton/ha of good quality rice were achieved.  In 1964, the first high-
yielding rice variety, Pefiboon (Taiwan) X Siam 29 (a locally selected Thai
variety), was released under the name Malinja.  This variety matured in
135-140 days, had improved grain quality and a yield potential of the order
of 3.5 ton/ha. It was not widely accepted by the farmers as it was tall and
leafy, had a tendency to lodge and was susceptible to "blast" (Pyricularia
oryzae). In 1965, a japonica-indica cross (Taichung 65 X Mayang Ebos 80) was
released as "Mahsuri". This was similar in growth charcteristics and yield
potential to Malinja, but proved highly susceptible to "blast" and heavy
"neck rot" losses were recorded. Following research and a back-crossing
program, "Improved M4ahsuri" with higher resistance to "blast" was released in
1969. Due to its relatively consistent yield under a wide range of conditions,
and acceptable grain and cooking quality, "Improved Mlahsuri" went on to be
the most popular variety.
14.       In the meantime, there was concern that no short duration high-
yielding varieties were available for the irrigation areas being developed.
In 1966, an IR 8 line (IR8-288-3) from IRRI was released under the local name
"Ria". This had a yield potential of 5-6 ton/ha which initially impressed
the farmers, but it rapidly fell out of favor due to its very short stature,
its requirement for a high level of management and inputs and its poor grain
quality. In 1968, a Malaysian selection from the F4 lines of the Peta X
Tangkai Rota cross (subsequently released by IRRI as IR5) was released as
"Bahagia". This was a medium height variety, maturing in 135-140 days, with
moderate blast and leaf hopper resistance and a yield potential of 4.5-5.0
ton/ha. Grain quality was acceptable and it was promoted along with Mahsuri
for irrigated areas. However, segregation, differential flowering, a high
percentage of empty grains and problems with milling led to a decline in
popularity.
15.       The next release was "Murni", a Bahagia X Ria cross with a higher
yield potential and shorter growing period than Bahagia.  This was not
popular due to the relatively short straw length. In 1973, C4-63, a variety
bred at the University of the Philippines, was released in Kedah State under
the local name "Jaya". Due to its short maturity (125 days), medium height,
good yield, good quality and attractive appearance, it proved popular with
farmers but later proved susceptible to neck rot. The most recent varietal
releases made since 1974 are: Sri Malaysia I, a sister line of Bahagia, with
moderate resistance to blast, bacterial leaf blight and leaf hopper but
rather poor grain quality; and Sri Malaysia II, a cross between IR8 and
Bankhara 203 which has high yield potential and blast resistance and matures
in 130 days. However, neither variety has proved popular with the farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
16.       The areas planted to key varieties in main (wet) season 1974/75 in
Peninsular Malaysia are listed below.
Variety               Area (ha)               % Total Rice Area
Mahsuri               101,530                        27%
Mat Candu              46,838                        13%
Bahagia                45,694                        12%
Jaya                   19,201                         5%
Serendah Kuning        14,470                         4%
Appollo                 8,228                         2%
Source:  Paddy Statistics 1975, Ministry of Agriculture.
Mat Candu and Appollo are believed to be farmer selections of improved
varieties. Serendah Kuning is a local long-term variety. On the basis of
the above statistics, about 60% of the rice area on the Peninsula is planted
to improved varieties in the main (wet) season. One of the key reasons for
nonacceptance of improved varieties in the main season in the flood-prone
areas is the lack of a long-strawed, longer duration, photosensitive variety,
which would survive the typical short-period flooding. A second factor is
the lack of an adequate supply of quality seed.
17.       In summary, there has not been much progress in terms of the
release of acceptable, improved varieties since the release of Improved
Mahsuri in 1969. There is an urgent need for better short-duration, high-
yielding, disease-resistant varieties for double cropping areas and the
development of improved long-strawed varieties for flood prone areas. The
most recent (1976) success is the inadvertent appearance in Kedah and
Penang of a variety which the farmers call "Seribu Gantang" or a "thousand
gantangs"./1 This has been traced back to the breeding line IR8 X Engkatek
X Sacupak which fell into the farmers' hands via the Bumbong Lima Rice
Station breeding line testing program. Wlith the exception of IR8, the
parents are long-term, high quality varieties. The new line is medium
height, matures in 130-135 days and has good yield potential and a high
percentage of filled grains. It has reasonable blast resistance but is
susceptible to bacterial leaf blight, bacterial streak and false smut. The
MLARDI Rice Research Branch is now working on the material with a view to
releasing an improved disease-resistant line. They have also bred greater
blast resistance into C4-63 or "Jaya" and hope to release this material
shortly. The Rice Research Branch of M4ARDI is very conscious of the lack of
improved varieties for Malaysia and has recently reviewed its approach to the
/1 The implication of this name is that the variety would yield 1,000
gantangs of padi per acre, equivalent to 6.2 ton/ha.



ANNEX I
Page 7
breeding program. Bumbong Lima will continue to be the main breeding center,
but all breeding lines are to be distributed and tested at an early stage of
crossing and selection at a series of representative stations witn a view to
developing location-specific varieties adapted to local conditions. Greater
emphasis is now being placed on developing nonirrigated wet padi and dry padi
varieties, and on varieties suitable for adverse conditions such as are found
in acid sulphate and flood prone areas. While high yield, resistance to
disease, short maturation period and good quality remain the basic aims,
greater attention is being focused on developing varieties with a high
acceptability among farmers.
Cropping Patterns
18.       In rainfed areas, the rice cropping calendar is geared to the
period of maximum rainfall, but actual planting time is often influenced by
the occurrence of floods. For example, on the east coast, attempts are made
to get dry seed beds established and the crop planted before the monsoon
proper becomes established, so that seedlings are well developed and can
withstand flooding.   This leads to one of the major advantages of supplemen-
tary main season irrigation - early timely planting regardless of local
rainfall. The occurrence of heavy rainfall and the depth and duration of
flooding also affect the selection of varieties and the length of the
cropping season. Preference is usually given to long-strawed, photosensitive,
long duration varieties which may take 160 to 180 days to mature. With
photosensitive varieties, there is some assurance that the crop will flower
outside the periods of heavy rainfall and flooding and thus substantially
reduce crop losses. In a high risk situation with limited use of inputs, a
long-duration, high-quality variety will often give a better yield and cash
return than an improved variety, unless the latter has been specifically bred
to meet local conditions, which is rarely the case. With the above factors
at work and a range of localized conditions in each region, there are a wide
range of cropping calendars. In general terms, the main cropping season on
the northwest coast is July-January with planting geared to the southwest
monsoon and intermonsoonal rains. On the east coast, the main season for
rainfed rice is September-March, with planting and variety selection based
on the northeast monsoon, the likelihood of heavy rains at flowering, and
regular flooding. Other regions fall largely within the July-March period.
19.       With the introduction of irrigation facilities, it could be reason-
ably expected that planting time and varietal selection for a particular
location could be optimized. In practice, this is true to only a limited
extent since water availability is only one variable in the system. This
point can be illustrated by reference to the Muda and Kemubu Irrigation
systems. In Muda, the initial plan was to grow one crop in the March-July
period and the second crop in the August-December period to reduce crop water
requirements and optimize the use of rainfall. While much of the crop
follows this general trend, there is a wide spread of planting and harvest.
The same problem has arisen in Kemubu where the official irrigation seasons
were established as April 1 to mid-August and October 1 to mid-February. Key
factors in the eventual lack of synchronization were the time taken for the



ANNEX 1
Page 8
water to reach the end of the irrigation run, difficulty in getting tractors
onto the land at the right time through lack of availability or access,
lack of adequate cash at the correct time of planting, problems encountered
by tenants in contacting landlords to obtain access to the land, and lack of
effective farmer organization and extension. The more concentrated period of
land preparation, transplanting and harvest creates a strong demand for
available labor and machines, and the availability and cost of labor has
created some problems in Muda. In summary, irrigation cannot effectively
optimize the cropping calendar unless other key factors are included in
initial planning. Staggered planting and harvest over long periods are
common features of many irrigation systems in Southeast Asia, and often
encourage the build-up of pests and disease and reduces productivity.
Cultural Techniques
20.       Traditionally, most of the padi land was prepared with buffalo.
However, work animal populations have declined appreciably since the mid-
sixties in many parts of Malaysia and an increasing proportion of rice land
is now prepared by 4-wheeled and 2-wheeled tractors equipped with rotovators.
This trend is particularly strong on the west coast where there is less labor
available and wage rates are higher. On the east coast, much of the land is
still prepared by buffalo, or completed by buffalo after one pass by the
tractor. This is partly a reflection of the lower availability of cash to
hire custom services, lower tractor numbers and the higher availability and
lower wage rates of labor. In deep water or swamp areas, there is no proper
land cultivation. Weeds and sedges are cut at the base and dragged to the
edge of the planted area. This system is also practiced to some extent in
double-cropped areas, where insufficient labor, animals or tractors are
available and time is short. In this case, the rice straw is dragged into
rows and the new crop planted between the rows.
21.       Wet seed beds are common throughout Malaysia, although dry seed
beds are still used in areas lacking irrigation facilities where early
planting is essential to reduce flood damage. Standard recommended seeding
rates range from 30-40 kg seed per planted hectare. Higher seeding rates are
usually associated with the use of local seed of lower quality, and are quite
common as the majority of padi farmers use their own seed. Few farmers use
adequate fertilizer or insecticide on the seed bed or pull seedlings at the
optimum age. On the west coast, many Malay farmers in deeper water areas
prepare floating nurseries or "Semaian rakit", utilizing woven mats as the
seed bed. These require a high labor input, higher seeding rate and two
transplantings. The seedlings are transferred in clumps to the field when
they are about 30 cm high, and finally transplanted to the padi when the
seedlings are tall enough or the water level low enough for successful
transplanting. With this system, seedlings may be 60-80 days old before the
final transplanting.
22.       The "kuku kanbing" or forked stick is commonly used in Malaysia for
transplanting. This should not be necessary on well prepared land, but
presunably the custom arose from the need to force seedling roots into rather



Page 9
poorly prepared hard soils. With the exception of the larger irrigation
systems, few farmrers use adequate fertilizer or handweed sufficiently. The
use of pesticides and sprays is minimal and largely restricted to spot
treatment and the use of chemicals supplied by the Department of Agriculture.
Harvesting, threshing and winnowing are still largely carried out by hand,
and the grain is sun-dried on mats. With the exception of a few select
progressive areas, the overall standard of cultural technique and management
in rice production is rather poor, and substantial gains in production could
be achieved through effective extension and the introduction of improved
techniques.
Fertilizers
23.       There are no statistics which relate fertilizer consumption specifi-
cally to rice production. The most commonly used fertilizers are urea,
superphosphate and mixed N.P.K. fertilizers. A wide range of brands, mixes
and package sizes are available, which tends to confuse the farmer with regard
to the best type of fertilizer to use and the real value of nutrients in the
package. Most State Departments of Agriculture recommend a fairly heavy
basal dressing of N.P.K. fertilizer and urea as a topdressing. Unfortunately,
fertilizer requirements for specific soils and locations have not yet been
clearly defined in many areas. There is little evidence of economic yield
response to potassium and little is known about the desirable ratio of
phosphate to nitrogen and the phosphate maintenance requirement for most padi
soils. As a result, some of the basal mixes now recommended and used for
rice production are an expensive way of meeting nutrient requirements. This
is rather serious in areas where rice production is largely a subsistence
operation and farmers are short of ready cash and necd to obtain maximum
return from the use of cash inputs. In areas of the east coast, many farmers
have lost confidence in recommendations and use of rather expensive basal
fertilizer and have reverted to limited use of urea only. This has been
accentuated by the high price of fertilizers in the early seventies, the
Government urea subsidy scheme and the rather low yields achieved on the east
coast. Currently there is no general subsidy scheme. Urea retails at about
M$9 per 20 kg bag and the most common basal mix retails at about M$19.50 per
80 lb bag.
24.       At current prices, elemental nitrogen costs about M$1 per kg and
farmers receive about M$0.50 per kg for padi. To achieve a return-to-invest-
ment ratio of about 3:1 which is normally required to encourage farmers to
use fertilizer, farmers need to produce 6 kg of padi per kg of nitrogen
applied. This can be achieved in most rice growing areas under the present
rather low levels of management. However, it is noteworthy that the response
of padi to nitrogen in Peninsular Malaysia, especially on the east coast,
appears to be much lower than that achieved in Thailand and Indonesia.
Limited data supplied by MARDI for east coast trials indicate a yield
increase of about 7-8 kg padi per kg nitrogen applied. Data from Thailand
and Indonesia show responses within the range 12-20 kg padi per kg of nitrogen
applied. Many factors are involved, including the cation exchange capacity
of the soil, the method of application, the temperature and pH of the water



ANNEX 1
Page 10
in the padi during topdressing, the ability of padi varieties to efficiently
utilize fertilizer nitrogen and the management of the crop, especially with
regard to weed control, water control and pest control. Consequently,
fertilizer requirements, forms of fertilizer, rate, timing and method of
application should receive top priority in the rice agronomy research program.
Pests and Diseases
25.       The most common rice diseases in lIalaysia are rice blast (Pyricu-
laria oryzae), bacterial leaf blight (Xanthomonas oryzae) sheath blight
(Corticium sp.) and yellow orange virus, locally called Penyakit Merah.
There are no economic chemical controls that can be applied on a broad scale
and the most effective control is the development of resistant varieties,
which is one of the prime aims of the MARDI rice breeding program. MARDI
currently cooperates with IRRI on the International Blast and Bacterial Leaf
Blight Screening Program and with the international germ plasm collection.
In addition, screening for disease and insect resistance will be an integral
part of the regional varietal selection and development program now being
estabished. Fortunately, severe losses to disease are not widespread in
?lalaysia and are usually localized.
26.       The most serious pests which cause widespread crop losses throughout
Malaysia are rats (Rattus rattus argentiventer - the common ricefield rat)
and stem borers (Chilo polychrysa and Tryporyza incertulas). Green leaf
hopper (Nephotettix sp) and rice bugs (Leptocoriza) also cause appreciable
damage and army worms (Spodoptera sp.) are a particular problem in Sabah and
Sarawak. Birds are also a problem, especially in small isolated areas of
padi close to uncleared land during the dry season when other food sources
are limited. Compared to countries where there has been a history of inten-
sive agrochemical use, e.g. Indonesia and the Philippines, insect damage is
light, and there is some evidence to suggest that as a result of the limited
use of insecticide, pest predator and parasite populations are effective in
keeping major insect pest populations down to acceptable levels. For example,
although the brown plant hopper (Nilparvata lugens) is present in Malaysia,
it has not yet caused the severe damage experienced in Indonesia and the
Philippines. A close examination of the local insect population trends is
warranted before the widespread use of chemicals is promoted. With the
judicious use of resistant varieties, limited use of narrow spectrum chemicals
and good crop management, there is a reasonable chance that Malaysia can
avoid some of the problems experienced in other countries.
27.       Standard control measures for rats are the gassing of burrows, the
use of zinc phosphide baits, and rat hunts organized among the farmers.
Nevertheless, present measures are not very effective. Substantial gains in
rice production could be achieved in some areas if Government launched a
national rat control program, based on a combination of clearing favorable
habitats, regular community rat hunts and systematic baiting.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
Water Control and Management
28.       Effective water control and management is a basic prerequisite to
obtaining the full benefits from irrigated padi. In many respects, Malaysia
is ahead in this field compared to some of her neighbors but there are many
areas requiring improvement. At the main system level, many schemes still
lack effective drainage and farm offtakes are not always ideally placed.
Generally, there is not a close link between irrigation and extension
personnel and farmers for the effective planning of cropping patterns,
planting schedules and irrigation schedules. There is frequently not suffi-
cient enforcement of water supply schedules and programs, and farmers are apt
to block supply channels or make illegal outlets to obtain larger supplies to
the detriment of neighbors downstream. Many schemes are still lacking
adequate tertiary development to provide equitable water supply and drainage
at farm level. An assured well controlled water supply is the basis for the
next major step forward in Malaysian rice production, which is increased
yield per unit area by the adoption of improved management and production
techniques.
29.       Government is currently placing emphasis on upgrading existing
schemes and intensifying the distribution and drainage system. However, the
benefits of this investment in improved infrastructure will not be fully
realized unless a concentrated effort is made concurrently to substantially
upgrade operation and maintenance through the training of irrigation field
personnel and a revision and upgrading of operating procedures. An important
aspect of such a program is the establishment of close links with the agricul-
tural extension field workers and the establishment of effective farmer
groups for extension and water management purposes in each tertiary unit.
Padi Drying
30.       The drying of padi has become a problem with the introduction of
double cropping in Kedah and Kelantan. As mentioned in para. 19, for various
reasons farmers have not always been able to follow the irrigation and
planting schedule set down by the irrigation project authorities and the
harvest of some of the off-season crop extends into periods of high rainfall,
high humidity and restricted hours of effective drying weather. The problem
has been overcome to some extent by the installation of large driers in the
large mills operated by the National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN) and later
by privately owned rice mills on the west coast, and by LPN and cooperative
drying plants on the east coast. Nevertheless, these facilities are highly
centralized, and difficulties sometimes arise in terms of deliveries exceeding
drying capacity in exceptionally wet seasons, with some loss of grain.
Furthermore, farmers receive a lower price for wet dirty grain, and hence
farm income is reduced. In average seasons, there is usually sufficient
periods of sunny drying weather to enable farmers to reduce grain moisture
appreciably before delivery to the merchant or mill. However, adequate



ANNEX 1
Page 12
concrete drying floors, coupled with temporary storage and winnowing faci-
lities are usually lacking at the village level. This problem warrants close
technical and economic evaluation to determine the cost of supplying suitable
facilities and the potential increased return to farmers in those areas of
Malaysia where farmers are currently losing income through the delivery of
low grade produce.
INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Farmers Organizations
31.       The GOM established Farmers Associations under an Act passed in
1967. Intended to be self-governing and self-financing organizations run
by the farmers themselves, the objective was to provide members with credit,
input supply, marketing and extension services at one point in each small
rural production center. Basic facilities provided included an office block,
a group meeting room, storage facilities for inputs and produce, a garage for
vehicles and equipment and basic crop handling facilities. To assist estab-
lishment in the early years staff was assigned from the extension service of
the Department of Agriculture (DOA). A typical managerial unit comprised a
General Manager and five. agricultural technicians to supervise administration,
accounting, credit, input supply and marketing. Due to the rather slow
progress in building up the Associations and the financial difficulties being
experienced by private rural cooperatives, Government established the Farmers
Organization Authority (FOA) in 1973. The FOA was charged with the responsi-
bility of taking over the Farmers Associations from the DOA and amalgamating
them with other rural cooperatives to form comprehensive Farmers Organizations
(FOs). The FOA effectively took over in June 1975 when it had acquired
sufficient staff to replace the DOA staff at the ft  d level.  There are
currently about 169 FOs in Peninsular Malaysia and the FOA plans to increase
the number to 210 during the Third Malaysian Plan period. The FOA is not
operative. in Sabah and Sarawak, where Farmers Associations are still run by
State Departments of Agriculture along tradition^'l lines.
32.       The central building complexes are now known as Farmers Develop-
ment Centers, and service c as for each center are progressively being
divided into Small Agricultural Units (SAUs). Each SAU has its elected SAU
leader and up to three representatives in a Farmers Assembly which has a
voice in determining FO policy. Each FO has an 11 member Board of Directors,
with 7 elec.ed by the Farmer Asse-mbly and 4 nominated by FOA. The FOA
provides the General Manager and 5 field officers, basic facilities and
limited operating funds and credit to initiate business activities. The Bank
Pertanian Milaysia (BPM) is the main source of ^gricultural production
credit. The majority of FOs are active in terms of ..nput supply, and some
are engaged in the markhting and processing of produce, e.g. rice, groundnut
and tobacco, and providiri, tractor and transport services. Acting as credit
agent for the BPM is also an important activity for FOs located in irrigated
padi areas. In the two largest irrigation projects, Muda and Kemubu, FO
activities fall under the- urisdiction of the Muda and Kemubu Agricultural
Development Authorities, respectively.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
33.       Although the general concept of the Farmers Organization is sound,
FOs currently serve less than 30% of the farming community, and largely
exclude the poorer, less progressive farmers that the Government intended the
program to benefit. Key constraints to FO development may be summarized as
follows. Facilities and staff are too centralized and remote from the village
community to be in a position to compete with the personalized services
offered by village level traders. Lack of close identification with the
village community leads to suspicion, lack of adequate community participation
in planning and implementing programs and difficulties in extending and
recouping credit where adequate funds are available. Currently, the Act
establishing FOA restricts credit services to members and also gives preference
to members for supplies of inputs and services. This restricts the generation
of funds, tends to confine membership to the more progressive, higher income
farmers in the community and does not give the FO an opportunity to attract
membership through establishing basic reliable services which benefit all
members of the community. In addition, most FOs are short of operating
capital, basic equipment and vehicles.
34.       At the organization and management level there are no close links
with the agricultural extension service of the DOA and the two services
mostly plan and implement independent programs, except in the Muda and Kemubu
areas. FOA field staff, while energetic and enthusiastic, are relatively
young and inexperienced. They receive no regular in-service training or
specialist field support, and there are no well established effective methods
of operation and program planning and evaluation procedures for them to
follow. The system requires close review at national level, with a view to
overcoming present deficiencies, integrating services with agricultural
extension activities and providing effective input supply, marketing and
other basic services to all sectors of the agricultural community.
Agricultural Extension
35.       Agricultural Extension is a State function and comes under the
direction of the State Director of Agriculture and State DOA. The State
supplies basic infrastructure, facilities, staff and operating budget. The
Federal DOA supplements State resources and provides expertise and special
finance for specific purposes and programs. Currently, the Federal DOA
maintains crop production, plant protection, soils, farm mechanization and
training units in most States, as well as supplying some federal personnel
for key posts in the State DOA.
36.       The State Director of Agriculture supervises the extension program
with the assistance of an Agricultural Officer, but in many States there
is no fully qualified experienced State Extension Officer to run the service.
Agricultural Assistants (AAs) with a diploma in agriculture are assigned as
District Agricultural Officers to supervise agricultural service activities
in each district. They are assisted by a number of Junior Agricultural
Technicians (JATs) holding certificates in agriculture, who are assigned to
supervise activities in the subdistricts (mukims). District responsibilities
include data collection, crop cutting, supervising crop subsidy schemes and



ANNEX 1
Page 14
other regulatory work in addition to extension. The field worker:farmer
ratio is usually at least 1:2000, but in the absence of a well planned
operational system, regular in-service training, and supervision from specia-
list staff, few farmers report useful contact with the extension service.
This largely accounts for the rather low standard of management and technology
applied by padi farmers in many areas. A national extension project to
improve this situation has been prepared for IBRD financing.
Research
37.       Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Malaysian
Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI). However, research
on rice is largely restricted to Peninsular Malaysia. MARDI only works
in Sabah and Sarawak on joint projects requested by the State Departments
of Agriculture. Currently work is largely restricted to oil palm and cocoa
in Sabah, peat soils and pepper in Sarawak, and the training of State staff.
MARDI is currently reviewing its rice research program. Bumbong Lima, in the
State of Penang on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia, is the National
Rice Experiment Station and the center of all breeding and research activities.
Under the new program, Malaysia has been divided into rice growing zones, and
as far as possible, centers have been established representative of each
zone. Through this approach, with Bumbong Lima acting as the coordinating
center, it is hoped to develop varieties and production techniques well
adapted to each major rice growing environment. However, it will be some time
before the advantages of this new approach are felt at farm level. In the
meantime, there is an urgent need to bridge the gap between research, extension
and the farmers to provide improved interim recommendations on basic items
such as fertilizer requirements, improvements in cultural techniques, and
pest control with emphasis on the practical and economic aspects of rice
production at State level. This does not require sophisticated research.
Simple field trials conducted as a joint enterprise between the extension and
research service in as many representative farmers' fields as possible would
bring quick results for immediate use of the extension service and farmers.
Government has set up State Agricultural Research Development and Extension
Committees comprising heads of all State services and MARDI to coordinate
programs and orient research toward local development problems. While these
committees have an important role to play, they cannot be fully effective
without a senior MARDI officer with authority for local programs, and adequate
operating budget, staff and basic facilities to immediately tackle priority
problems identified by the committee. Although complex research problems
with wide application must be handled by a National MARDI research program,
simple adaptive research could be initiated by a small cadre of MARDI research
personnel working with the State DOA extension service.
Agricultural Credit
38.       The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), established in the early 1970s,
is the major source of institutional credit for farmers, but money leLiders,
merchants, landlords, crop processors and dealers provide most of the consump-
tion credit and much of the production credit at annual interest rates usually



ANNEX 1
Page 15
in excess of 30%. Other sources of credit include rural credit cooperatives,
Farmers Organizations, commercial banks and finance companies, although
the latter are only relevant to the more affluent farmers. PPM services are
largely restricted to regional and branch offices and a cadre of credit
officers. The Bank relies heavily on FOs, tobacco curers and other produce
processors to act as its agents or local credit centers in dealing with
farmers.
39.       Credit for padi has largely been restricted to areas with reliable
water control and has centered on the larger irrigation systems. As a
result it has reached only a small percentage of padi growers. Most of the
credit is supplied in kind through FOs, which issue credit vouchers for
fertilizers, pesticides, and tractor services after screening applications,
and which recover loans as BPM agents. Production loans are normally issued
for a six-month term at 4.25% per term. The FO retains 1.25% per season as a
commission. In conjunction with the North Kelantan Rural Development Project,
financed by IBRD, the BPM has developed a revised credit program, which will
be initiated in Kelantan. The FOs will assess credit requirements in their
area and prepare a request for loan funds with the assistance of the State
FOA. The BPM will assess the financial and managerial status of each FO and
allocate a "Seasonal Block Loan" to each FO as a principal borrower. The FO
will screen applicants, process and recoup loans and repay credit to the
State BPM office. The scheme will be operated in both irrigated and rainfed
areas and is intended to cover both FO and non-FO members. However, the
success of the scheme will depend to some extent on the attitudes of FO board
members with regard to handling credit for non-members.
40.       Developing a successful method of getting effective extension,
credit and input supply service to all farmers will be the next major break-
through in increasing Malaysian rice production to keep pace with increased
demand during the next decade. This implies strengthening extension services,
FO activities and the agricultural credit system and integrating them so that
they are effectively complementary services. The problem of extending credit
to the poorer less progressive sector of the agricultural community is common
to all developing countries, as is the criticism levelled at the agricultural
credit agency for not achieving Government aims. Much of the criticism stems
from a lack of understanding of the problem. In many developing countries
governments expect agricultural credit agencies to operate on commercial
lines and show a profit, or at the least to avoid any losses. This largely
accounts for the conservative approach of management and the tendency only
to lend to low risk enterprises or progressive farmers, many of whom are
eligible to borrow from commercial banks. In Malaysia, the problem is exacer-
bated by the lack of credit outlets at village level and the lack of a close
link between credit, input supply and extension. These problems are beyond
the control of BPM. It is not surprising that the agency has turned to tra-
ditional banking activities to establish its organization and national image
in the absence of any program to assist it to accelerate successful lending
to the agricultural community. It is noteworthy, that where there is a
suitable mechanism for lending, e.g. tobacco production, BPM has moved in
to provide credit, and has achieved considerable success.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Input Supply and Services
41.       The Federal DOA, through the Crop Production Units located in the
States, is responsible for seed production. Foundation seed of improved
varieties is supplied to the DOA by MARDI. The Federal Crop Production Units
multiply the seed on Government land and also to some extent on private land,
and distribute the produce to farmers via the extension service or FOs. One
successful innovation adopted in Malaysia is the "exchange seed" system,
whereby farmers exchange a given quantity of their own seed for new seed,
which avoids any problems associated with lack of cash or credit. The
performance of the seed production system is patchy, with reasonable production
and distribution in some areas, e.g. Muda, and negligible production and
distribution in some States, e.g. Trengganu. In the past, key constraints
have included lack of sufficient foundation seed supplied by MARDI, and lack
of sufficient trained staff,, operating budget and seed production and handling
facilities at State level. The proposed national extension project
(para. 36) would initiate a program to overcome these deficiencies.
42.       Bulk fertilizer and agrochemical supply is handled by a number of
large private companies. Retail distribution is via the FOs and private
stockists. In the case of Government subsidy schemes, e.g. the urea subsidy,
which was introduced temporarily during the period of high fertilizer prices,
all business is transacted through the FOs. The FOs thus have an important
role to play in input supply. However, as pointed out in para. 33, many of
the FOs are not well enough managed and equipped and are subject to trading
restrictions, which reduces their effectiveness. Attention is also drawn in
para. 23 to the wide range of compound fertilizers and package sizes available,
which in addition to confusing the farmers complicates the management of
fertilizer supply at FO level.
43.       In addition to the regular commercial supplies of fertilizer and
agro-chemicals, Government also operates a number of subsidy schemes through
the DOA for specific crops and specific purposes. Each state has an Agricul-
tural Development Unit and budget to provide free fertilizer and planting
materials to promote the development of new crops or the rehabilitation of
established perennial crops, as in coconut replanting. There is also a Plant
Protection Unit in each State, with a small cadre of staff, central pool of
equipment and a budget for chemicals. In addition to supporting the extension
service with technical advice and demonstration work, the unit is responsible
for controlling epidemics and issuing free chemical pesticides to farmers.
In some areas, these programs are working quite well, and have the potential
to be a valuable aid to the extension program. However, too frequently the
agricultural development and subsidy schemes ignore the economics of produc-
tion, processing and marketing of the crop being promoted. The Plant Protec-
tion Units are hampered by lack of operating budget, trained staff and the
availability of chemicals most suitable to handle local pest problems. In
both cases, there is a tendency for the more progressive farmers, who are
aware of the programs, to repeatedly apply for and receive assistance with
the more needy, less progressive farmers, to whom the programs are largely
directed, not receiving assistance. These problems can be overcome by



ANNEX 1
Page 17
linking the programs more closely to the new extension system and FO programs,
and taking appropriate measures to review and strengthen the Plant Protection
service. nie latter should make the Plant Protection Units an integral part
of the extension service, make provision for pest monitoring programs, and
decentralize to some extent decisions regarding the volume and type of
chemicals required for pest control.
44.       Custom cultivation services are provided by private contractors,
the FOs and the State DOAs. In many cases, neither the FOs nor the State
DOAs have adequate workshop and servicing facilities. Further, the provision
of tractor services by DOA at reduced contract rates discourages an expansion
of commercial activity in some areas. There is an increasing demand for
custom ploughing, and in some areas, shortages of tractors raise contract
rates and prevent timely planting of padi. It is recommended that Government
should concentrate effort on training operators and maintenance mechanics,
provide attractive medium-term credit for Fos and private interests to buy
4-wheeled and 2-wheeled tractors, and register contractors. Several FOs have
demonstrated ability to buy tractors on hire purchase and operate them
economically. A program to make all types of equipment readily available
and to promote healthy competition between FOs and private enterprise would
be the best and cheapest solution to overcoming the shortages of tractors
that currently exist in some areas.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMIALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rainfall Data
(inches)
Perlis                                        Kedah                                       Perak
1208 D.I.D. Store Kangar   1028 Tanjong Pauh Estate             1079 Ladang Pelam            3079 Changrat Salar
Maximum  Minimum  Average  Maximum  Minimum  Average  Maximum  Minimum  Average  Maximum  Minimum  Average
July         12.28      3.40     6.85    12.59        3.63      7.64    15.35      5.33       8.92    14.31       2.74     5.46
August       13.95      4.18      8.22    16.61       3.07      8.56    14.10      5.00       9.17    12.66       2.45      6.07
September   16.57       8.05    10.95    14.28        6.22    11.22    18.32       4.21    10.97        8.63      2.87     6.05
October      18.37      4.75    12.46    18.04        5.52    12.32    27.45       8.67    18.14    17.27         7.05    12.18
November    12.99       2.47      8.47    13.78       3.01      7.89    17.19       7.98    12.75    15.41        3.57      9.15
December    15.68       0.40      4.12    10.34       0.06      3.81    17.87      0.00       8.65    12.12       2.04      7.08
January       5.57      0.00      1.84      8.26      0.00     2.56      8.14      0.49      4.40    14.12        0.48      6.28
February      4.55      0.00     0.96       3.79     0.00       1.47     9.79      0.90       2.99      8.46      1.49     4.46
March        12.19      0.13      2.75    10.27       0.00      4.50    17.30       1.50      7.62    11.72       2.60      6.47
April        10.80      1.84     6.27    11.39       0.43       6.61    16.00      4.17    10.29    14.19         5.04     8.43
May          15.56      5.55      9.99    12.91       3.88      9.32    14.76      3.30    10.61       12.18      1.34      6.95
June         14.12      4.13     6.87    10.55        3.41      6.24    13.79      0.58       7.89     6.12      0.77      3.85
Note:  Rain gauge stations are shown on scheme location map.
OQ a,Z
X >
oI-   l
ID '-m



Negeri Sembilan                                     Johore                         Pahang
5013 Kg. Relai New Village  5079 Kuala Pilah Headworks  7026 Eng Jee Estate Tangrar   8069 Kg. Bharu Jerantut
Maximum  Minimum  Average    Maximum  Minimum  Average   Maximum  Minimum  Average   Maximum  Mlinimum  Average
July          9.16      1.58     4.46         6.02      1.18      4.07       7.55      1.99      4.74      11.36      1.00      5.37
August        9.56      1.35     5.18        10.64      1.06      4.53       9.91      2.60      4.64       9.16      1.32      5.80
September    6.20      3.25      4.83         7.34      1.75      4.14     11.57      2.95      6.18       12.51      1.29      6.22
October      28.53      3.96     6.84        15.71      3.74      6.74      13.11      3.59      7.18      18.01      2.34      8.15
November    16.72       3.72      7.95       14.58      5.26      8.80      14.05      4.14      7.61      23.93      2.19      8.52
December    10.49       2.67     5.97        13.17      2.88      7.55      13.12      1.86      6.36      12.85      2.76      6.91
January       8.33     0.90      4.10         7.17      0.44      3.58       8.77     0.00       4.06      13.60      0.50      5.10
February      7.98     0.29      3.15        12.90      0.26      4.18      11.20     0.00       2.92       8.53      0.63      2.57
Mfarch       11.53      3.06     4.91        10.65      1.53      5.92      16.89      1.63      7.67       8.61      0.62      3.77
April        11.97     2.40      6.45        15.00      1.42      7.41      17.49      2.48      9.90       9.80      0.30      4.76
May           7.73      2.55     4.81        10.13      2.91      5.81      16.32      3.20      7.59      10.87      1.17      5.48
June          7.21     0.67      3.83         8.91      0.36     3.13       14.07     2.33       7.00       8.59      1.46      4.31
Note:  Rain gauge stations are shown on scheme location map.
(D  set
M(D P



Pahang                       Trengganu                       Kelantan
8099 Kg. Palau Rumput    9044 Ser. Kebg. Kg. Sg. Tong             0056 Telusan
Maximum  Minimum  Average    Maximum  Minimum  Average   Maximum  Minimum  Average
July        13.04      0.05      5.09       15.33      8.15    10.78        9.53      4.44      6.95
August       15.67     0.00      5.81       23.75      7.54    12.11       13.68      2.84      8.99
September   13.79      0.08      4.89       34.95      4.56    14.48       15.92      3.15    11.93
October      15.48     3.28      6.32       24.77      7.57    14.65       31.62      6.08    12.04
November    13.67      2.77      7.68       78.93      6.45    22.34       38.26      6.70    19.59
December    28.33      3.52    13.41        61.43      5.09    38.27       47.11      7.07    27.05
January     37.72      0.00    11.30        27.85      2.74    13.61       49.54      0.23    15.34
February    30.81      0.00      5.49       55.30      0.27    11.77       10.70      0.65      4.72
March       46.34      0.05      9.37       19.30      0.38      6.30       8.20      0.04      3.76
April        6.00      0.00      1.90       17.70      1.86      7.28       8.02      1.16      4.17
May           8.13     0.04      2.63       11.77      3.65      7.70      10.92      2.84      8.13
June         6.21      0.32      2.55       22.24      7.35    11.87       14.30      1.02      8.94
Note:  Rain gauge stations are shown on scheme location map.
SD H M
m (D



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FEDERAL DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
MINISTRY
OF AGRICULTURE
DIRECTOR-GENERAL DID
rDEPUTY|
| DIRECTOR-GENERAL|
ASSISTANT               ASSISTANT                ASSISTANT                ASSISTANT               CHIEF                   A                       ENGINEER,                    S
DIRECTOR-               DIRECTOR-                DIRECTOR-                DIRECTOR-                CHACA                  ADMINISTRA-             IMPLEMENTA-                  STORE
GENERAL,                GENERAL,                 GENERAL,                 GENERAL,                MECHENRCL               TIVE                    TION                         KEEPER
NORTH                   SOUTH                    PLANNING                 PROJECTS                                        OFFICER                 MONITORING &
.                                   ~~~~~~~~EVALUATION
State D & I              Federal                   -Planning              Major                     Federal                 -Finance                 Implementa-               'Stores
Departments:             Territory                -Design                 Projects                  Workshop                -Service                    tion                    Transport
-Perlis                 State. D & I             'Research              Financed From              State                   'Correspond-            Monitoring
-Kedah                  Departments:             'Training              External                   Workshops                  ence                     &
-Kelantan                -Selangor               Hydrology              Sources                    (Advisory)                                      Evaluation
*Penang                   'Negeri                                                                   -Kedah
*Trengganu                 Sembilan                                                                 'Kelantan
-Perak                    /Malacca                                                                  -Trengganu
'Pahang                  'Johore                                                                    'Johore
'Sarawak                                                                  *Pahang
-Sabah                                                                    'Selangor                                                                                                     i
World Bank-17052



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF A TYPICAL STATE DRAINAGE & IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
DRAINAGE & IRRIGATION
STATE GOVERNMENT                                                                FEDERAL HEADQUARTERS
*I
!                                                                                 !
ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL                                                              TECHNICAL CONTROL
LJ ~ ~   STATE DRAINAGE AND   La
IRRIGATION DIRECTOR
CHIEF MECHANICAL
ENGINEER
l                                                           DEPUTY STATE DRAINAGE
& IRRIGATION DIRECTOR
TECHNICAL ADVICE
D & I ENGINEER      0    EGNEER         D & I ENGINEER           0 & I ENGINEER          0 & I ENGINEER         FINANCIAL           CHEF CLERK
MECHANICAL) ,,,                         DISTR ICT2DISTRICT 3 |DISTRICT 4                                        ASSISTANT
STATE HYDROLOGICAL         D & I ENGINEER
OFFICER                    (HE ADQUARTERS)
World Bank-i17053



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF A TYPICAL DISTRICT DRAINAGE & IRRIGATION OFFICE
STATE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATION DIRECTOR
ADMINISTRATIVE
AND                                         DISTRICT OFFICER 
TECHNICAL CONTROL
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION  |I
ENGINEER                  _     -  -  - - -  -  LIAISON
(DISTRICT)
SENIOR TECHNICAL           DRAINAGE AND                      CHIEF CLERK                  CHIEF IRRIGATION              STORE KEEPER
ASSISTANT                  IRRIGATION ENGINEER         l:                           .     INSPECTOR_  
SurveY and                  Construction of                Service Records             Operation and                    Stores and
Investigation               New Schemes                    Finance                     Maintenance of                   Transport
-Drawing Office                                            Correspondence              Irrigation Schemes
rtW7
World Bank-17054                  Wr






MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Average Operation and Maintenance Costs per Acre (M$)
Gravity                            Pumping /a                      Controlled Drainage
>5,000 acres      <5,000 acres       >5,000 acres      <5,000 acres       >5,000 acres      <5,000 acres
Perlis                -                 6.20               -                  -                   -                -
Kedah               16.73             20.57                 -               30.77                 -              10.83
Penang              17.77             35.12              19.61              37.73                -               25.81
Perak               15.05             24.78              23.02              34.88                _               13.96
Selangor             7.75             19.72                -                  -                   -                -
N. Sembilan           -                19.37               _                45.01                 -                _
Melacca                                13.80               -                18.56                 -               8.06
Johore                                13.24                -                28.77                -               19.48
Pahang                -               25.97                -                35.79                -                4.11
Trengganu            8.23              13.34             18.98              22.54                                 3.73
Kelantan              -                11.91             19.94              22.18
Muda                18.61
Kemubu                                                   25.50
Sarawak               -               18.57                -                24.25
Sabah               18.09             20.52                -                32.72
a  Td
/a  These costs do not include pumping energy. 



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation and Drainage Rates, 1976
I RR IG A T ION   R A TES                                                               D RA I NA GE   RA TE S
lst. Class or Class A    2nd. Class or Clasa 8    3rd. Class or Class C
Yield in         Rate        Yield in         Rate        Yield in         Rate                                             Rate
gantangs            $        gantangs            $        gantangs            $                                                $
State             per acre        per acre      per acre      pet acre      per acre        per acre              Remarks                    per acre              Remarks
Peris             <--            $ 5.60>                                                                  For North Perlis
<       -   S$10.00                                                                    For Central 6 South Perlis
in the Muda Area.
P. Pinang         more than  $ 6.00 (5)         250-400     $ 4.50 (5)       less than  $ 3.00 (5)                                            $ 3.60 -    Bertam
400         $ 9.00 (D)                   $ 6.75 (D)       250          $ 4.50 (D)                                           $ 4.00 -    Tasek Glugor
$ 8.00 -    Nibong Tehal, Bukit Tambun
$10.80  B- t. Minyak/Tegah.
Kedah             more than  $ 4.20             350-450    $ 2.80            less than  $ 1.40            Pumping schemes $6.00/ac.
450                                                       350                          Previous rates for Class
I. II & III were $3.00.
$2.00 & $1.00 respectively
per relong
(1 relong - 0.71 acs.)
Munda            <--            $10.000 
(old area)
Muds             c     -     $ 8.00
(new area)
Perak             more than  $ 4.50             250-400    $ 3.00            less than  $ 1.00                                                 $ 4.60  B> agan Datoh
400                                                       250                                                               $ 5.00  T, g. Ketapang,
Durian Sebatang
Selangor                                                $ 6.00                                      >    Sot classified                        $ 4.00  S> g. Buloh Selantan, Tg.
Dua Belas, Sg. Langat
$ 5.00 -   S. Bernam, Sg. Buloh U.,
Sejanskang, Tik. Penglina
Garang Kanchong
$ 6.00      Klang50  Ui. Selantan, Pulan
Lumut
N. Sembilan                                     $ 3.00                                                    N ot classified                      $ 3.00
Melaka             more than   $ 3.00           250-400    $ 2.00            less than  $ 1.00                                                 $ 5.00
400                                                       250
Johor                                                     NIL                                       >    So rates are charged                  $ 6.00
Kelantan                        $10.00 (D)                  $ 6.00 (5)                                                                           NIL
$ 5.00 (5)
Trengganu                       $ 6.00                       $ 4.00                       $ 2.00                                                 NIL
Pahang             more than  $ 5.00            250-400      $ 3.00          less than  $ 2.00
400                                                       250
Sabah                                                     NIL                                        >    No rates are charged                   NIL
Sarawak                                                   NIL                                        >    No rates are charged                   NIL
Nute:  (S) Single crop
(D) Douhle crop



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
General
1.        The project would consist of about 195 subprojects covering a net
irrigable area of 54,000 ha. Subprojects would range in size from about
50 ha to 2,000 ha, with an average size of 280 ha. The proposed subpro-
jects are listed in Tables 1-13. As the process of subproject evaluation
is still continuing, the final project list will vary slightly from those
listed at present.
Subproject Areas
2.        Because of the number and variety of subprojects, it is clearly not
possible to describe each one. Subprojects would be located in all states of
Malaysia (except that no subprojects from Penang are included in the present
lists), with the states with the largest padi areas (Kedah, Perak, Kelantan
and Sarawak) and with the least large-scale irrigation development (Negeri
Sembilan, Pahang and Trengganu) predominating. Subproject areas would vary
from broad coastal plains to small interior valleys. About 77% of the aggre-
gate project area is now cropped (virtually all to padi). Much of this area
has some kind of irrigation development, such as controlled drainage, inun-
dation systems (para 3.05) or crude gravity systems with temporary brush-
wood dams constructed by the farmers themselves. The remaining areas are
dependent on rainfall only. While the areas with crude irrigation systems
do have some insurance against erratic rainfall in the main season, there is
usually insufficient water control to permit the use of high-yielding varie-
ties or off-season cropping, and thus farm incomes are very low. Many of
the subproject areas have associated problems of drainage, seawater intrusion,
flooding and lack of road access, which would also be alleviated (to the
extent that can be justified in each case) under the project.
Surveys
3.        During the subproject selection process, each scheme is topograph-
ically surveyed by conventional field methods at a scale of 1:6,336, with a
contour interval of 1 foot. Information on the present land use is collected,
as are soils data, but no cadastral surveys are made, as the project does
not include boundary realignment.
Hydrology
4.        Probably the most important aspect of design for these small-scale
systems is the selection and evaluation of the water source, usually in the
absence of any flow records for the stream in question. For the proposed



ANNEX 4
Page 2
subproject is, all schemes would depend on surface water, 50% through
diversion weirs and 35% by pumping plants. About 9% of the systems would be
controlled drainage schemes (mainly in Sarawak and Trengganu), in which
drainage regulators would back up water over a flat padi area, particularly
at the beginning of the season. The remaining 6% of systems would be inun-
dation schemes (all in Pahang), which consist of a series of small gated
weirs across an upland stream.
5.        The most critical hydrologic information is the dependability of
the water supply, that is, the minimum flow of a specified duration which
would occur with specified probability. The normal practice in Malaysia is
to use the 7-day low flow with a 1-in-5-year probability of recurrence as
the design flow which determines the area which can be irrigated from a given
source.
6.        In a few cases (mostly the larger rivers) direct observations would
be analyzed to estimate the design low flow. In other cases, records from
adjacent catchments could be correlated and extrapolated to produce a syn-
thetic record for the stream in question. This procedure would be supple-
mented by a study of local water use and the procedure to be described below.
For the majority of cases, the design low flow would be computed by a pro-
cedure involving the use of regional characteristics. This is known as
Hydrological Procedure No. 12 and was recently developed by DID, with con-
sultant assistance (ENEX, New Zealand). This method relies on frequency
analysis of existing records, regionalization of annual minimum flow fre-
quency curves (four regions are used for Peninsular Malaysia) and correlation
of low flows with catchment areas and annual precipitation. While this work
has been carefully done, the data base is quite small, especially for the
east coast and interior of Peninsular Malaysia, and the inherent reliability
of the method is limited, especially for small catchments, as the published
procedure warns. Thus calculations based on the procedure would be supple-
mented wherever possible by field observations, questioning of local resi-
dents and by installing measuring devices as part of the project. The latter
would be feasible in the case of diversion weirs in situations where head
loss is not a constraint, and would provide valuable data to verify and
update Procedure No. 12. Over the longer term, consideration should be given
to the development of methods based on simulation, which would make more use
of existing records and catchment characteristics. These matters would be
further investigated by the planning and design advisers (Annex 6).
Design Standards
7.        The hydraulic design of the systems would be relatively straight-
forward. Gravity diversion headworks would normally be gated structures
and would be designed for a maximum flow of about 1.5 times the bankfull
capacity of the stream. A wide bypass channel would be provided for larger
floods. Normally manually operated, vertical slide gates would be provided.
The stilling pool below the weir would be deepened and lengthened to minimize
retrogression and would be protected by riprap founded on a gravel filter.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Pumphouses would have concrete foundations with walls of concrete,
brick or wood. Floors would be set above the 25-year flood levels, or
otherwise protected from floods of this magnitude. A minimum of three pumps
would normally be installed to provide for a variable demand and to ensure
service in the case of breakdowns. Since most of the schemes are in remote
areas, it is expected that diesel engines would be used in most cases. An
operator's house would be provided at each headworks or pumping station.
9.        The subprojects include main canals and, for the larger schemes,
secondary canals at about 2,500 ft (900 m) spacing. Peak irrigation demand
would typically reach 30 acres/cu sec (2.3 1/s/ha) during the periods of
land preparation and transplanting. Main and secondary canals would usually be
unlined, though some states have requested precast concrete lining in their
proposals. The merits of such requests would be one of the items to be studied
by the Preparation and Evaluation Team.
10.       Opinions also vary between the states as to the type and intensity
of on-farm development to be included in the subprojects. In some cases, no
development below the secondary outlet is envisaged. In other cases, glass-
reinforced polyester flumes (similar to those being tested under the North
Kelantan Rural Development Project, Loan 1294-MA) or concrete pipes at 500
to 1,000 ft (150 to 300 m) spacing are planned. As each subproject proposal
is evaluated by the Preparation and Evaluation Team, the appropriate type and
level of on-farm development would be determined, keeping in mind the need to
minimize costs, the likely construction and maintenance conditions and the
level of agricultural technology likely to be used in each subproject area.
The engineering design and planning advisors to be engaged under the project
(Annex 6) would assist DID to devise uniform engineering standards and
approaches to the various hydrological, topographical, and engineering
problems encountered in designing the schemes.
11.       Earth main and secondary drains would be provided where they do not
already exist. They would be designed to discharge a 5-year frequency storm
in 72 hours and thus minimize permanent damage to a standing rice crop.
Tidal gates would be provided on the drainage outlets for coastal subprojects.
Farm roads, 10 ft (3 m) wide, and with a laterite surface, would be provided
alongside all main and secondary canals, and subproject access roads would be
constructed where necessary.
Construction Methods and Schedule
12.       Only the smallest schemes would be constructed under a single con-
tract. For most subprojects, one contract would cover the headworks and/or
pumphouse with a separate contract for canal and drainage systems. Contrac-
tors would provide all their own materials and would subcontract for fabri-
cated items, such as flumes, gates and lining segments. Pumps would be
procured centrally by the Federal DID, orders for each year's work program
being bulked for economy.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
13.       Construction methods are likely to be fairly machine-intensive,
in line with the comparative costs for machines and hand labor in most
localities. There would, however, be scope for hand methods in the construc-
tion of the smaller ditches, drains and structures.
14.       The time required for the design and construction of individual
subprojects would vary from two to four years, depending on the size and
complexity of each scheme. Tables 1-13 show projected expenditure schedules
for each proposed scheme, while Annex 10 shows the aggregate expenditure
schedule for the construction program as a whole.
15.       During construction, the state DID offices would report to the
Project Coordinator each six months on the progress of each subproject and
on projected progress for the following period. These reports would be
consolidated by the Project Coordinator and passed on to the Bank. Contract
documents and bid evaluation would be passed on to the Federal DID for
approval, as required, and would then be forwarded to the Bank, as described
in para. 4.19.
Operation and Maintenance
16.       Operation and maintenance (O&M) would be carried out, as at present,
by the State DIDs. Equipment and vehicles to be procured under the project,
listed in Annex 5, would enable the State DIDs to operate and maintain the
project schemes to accepted standards.
17.       The cost of O&M would vary widely depending on the locality, the
type of system (pumped or gravity) and the degree of sophistication of the
on-farm development system. Most systems are likely to have O&M costs in the
range of M$20-60/ac (US$20-60/ha), except for very simple controlled drainage
or inundation systems. These costs do not include the costs of extension or
other agricultural supporting services.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Perlis
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Potential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated    Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)            Type of    Cropping         Yield       Project       House-
Name                    Present  Addi-    Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                  (Z)        acre)          acre)    Benefited
(1)                      (2)     (3)           (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)         (11)          (12)        (13)           (14)         (15)
1.  Pagar Kaubing         500      -             365     -        100    265    -          -    -        Gravity        190          400            600          290
2.  Sg. Peldrit           500      500         1,200    165       300    735    -           -    -       Gravity        160           300           500          100
3.  Kg. Parit             500       -            485     -         -       -    200        285   -       Gravity        160           400           600          120
4.  Sg  Sire              500       -            640     -          -      -    340        300   -       Gravity        190           300           500          100
5.  Kg. Darat             300       -            748      50      698      -      -         -    -       Gravity        190           300           500          300
6.  Titi Tinmi            250       -            523     -          -      -    270        253   -       Gravity        160           300           500          800
7.  Kg. Paden  Mawar    400         -            415     -         -       -      -       215  200       Gravity        160           250           450          630
and
Kg. Kok Mak.
Total         2,950      500         4,376    215    1,098  1,000   810    1,053  200             -             -            -             -         2,340
Ii1
- a-



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Kedah
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Potential    Present       Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)            Type of    Cropping          Yield       Project        House-
Name                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project               Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantaags/          holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                    (%)         acre)          acre)     Benefited
(1)                   (2)       (3)          (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)        (9)   (10)       (11)           (12)        (13)           (14)          (15)
1. Kota II               3,900        -         5,500        100  1,000  2,400  2,000         -       -      Pumping         195           380            500        1,716
2. Kg. Pantai Perai        400       370        1,200         -      300    900       -       -       -      Pumping         150           300            500          640
3. Titi Karangan           300        300       1,000         -      300    700       -       -       -      Gravity         180           300            450           130
4. Tanjung Besar           300        100         600          -     350    250       -       -       -      Gravity         185           150            450           200
5. Kg. Landak               100        -          180          50    130      -       -       -       -      Pumping         200           300            450            80
6. Kg. Pdg. Meha            210       170         700          -      -      100    200    400        -      Gravity         180           250            450           160
7. Sg. Tiak                250         -          400         -      150    250       -       -       -      Gravity         190           300            450           350
8. Lembah Bata
Per. II             2,700        -        4,050         204  1,000  1,200  1,646         -       -     Gravity          150           300           500         1,060
9. Tandop Pekan
Merbok                190        -           300         -       -       -       -      200     100    Gravity          190           375           475           400
10. Sg. Teloi               200         -          300         -      100    200       -       -       -      Pumping         190           250            400           164
11. Kurong Hitam            180        -           270         -      150    120       -       -       -      Gravity         110           300            500           360
12. Carok Kejal             250        -           350         -       -      150    200       -       -      Gravity         100           300            450           300
13. Kg. Bukit Kecil
Telok Wang.         1,000        -        1,500                  -       -       -   1,100    400    Pumping            190           400           600           614
14. Kg. Padang Cicak        150         50         300          10    100    190       -       -       -      Gravity         185           375            475            70
15. Kg. Banggol
Beranggan              80       120          350         -       -       -       -      300      50    Pumping          185           100           300            40
16. Kg. Mempelam             160        10         250         -      110    140       -       -       -      Gravity         190           150            300            60
17. Kg. Tembak              200        130         500         -       -       -      100    200    200    Gravity            185           200            350           110
18. Kg. Lubok Kiab           100        50         250         -       -       -       -      150    -100    Pumping          195           150            350            25
19. Kg. Sg. Limau            150        50         300         -       -       -       -      190     110    Pumping          185           300            450           350
20. Kg. Matang Durian        130        70         300         -       -      140    160       -       -      Pumping         180           250            400            65
21. Kg. Berjaya             250        250       1,000         -       _       -      200    650      150    Pumping          180           200            400           132
22. Kg. Selarong             100       140         400         -       -       -       -      300     100    Pumping          170           100            300            30
23. Kg. Guar Cempedak       300         80         570         -       -       -       -      400     170    Gravity          180           200            350            85
Total           11,600     1,890      20,570         364  3,690  6,740  4,506  3,890  1,380             -             -            -              -          7,140
5 Z4
_  11



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE. IRRIGATION PROJECT-
Proposed Schemes in Kedah (Muda fringe areas)
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Ebtential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreaae        Estimated      Proposed Expenditure (MS Thousands)        Type of    Cropping        Yield       Project       Hbuse-
Nhue                Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                              (X)         acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                  (2)      (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)        (11)          (12)       (13)          (14)         (15)
24. Sg. Pering             500        -       1,200        140    480    580       -      -       -     Puping         200          400           700          180
25. Che' Kedo              350        -         840         -       -     360    480      -       -        n            of           n             It          160
26. SS. Putat              200        -         480         -       -     240    240      -       -        n            it           n             "            90
27. Sg. Celong             150        -         360         -       -      -      360     -       -        a            n            n             t            60
28. Sg. laa                800        -       1,920         --  -                 840 1,080       -                      o                         "           300
29. Sg. Lapan              350        -         840         -       -      -      240    600      -                                                   n        175
30. Padan Kerbau           200        -         480                 - -    -      240    240      -                     It                                      90
31. Paya Rava              450        -       1,080        180    360    540       -      -       -         o           of                         t           250
32. Padang Pusing        1,400        -       3,360         -      480    840  2,040      -       -         o           of *                                   655
33. Bakong                 400        -         960        200    320    440       -      -       -                     o            I"            "           200
34. Kampong Lanjut         200        -         480         -       -      -       -     400      80       n                         So                         70
35. Gua Ginu              .200        -         480         -       -      -       -     300    180        n            n            To                         50
Total          5,200                12,480        520  1,640  3,000  4,440  2,620    260                                                           2,280
Note: Kedah schemes nos. 1-23 are listed in Table 2.
N



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRKIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Scheme in Perak
ENtimated   Esatimted   Estimated
Pbtential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreae         Estimted       Proposed Expenditure (MS Thomsands)          Type of    Cropping        Yield       Project        nouse-
Name                Pr ent   Addi-   Bas  Cost   1977   1978   1979   196   1961   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantngs/   (gantangs/    holds
tion-l (M$ Thousands)                                                                (Z)        acre)          acre)    Benefited
(1)                  (2)       (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)        (11)           (12)       (13)           (14)         (15)
1. Bota/Lambor          2,926        -          3,500       -       -     900    960  1,300    340    Pu in             200          300           450        1,300
2. Bendang Lubok
Buaya                210       160           550      275    275      -       -      -       -     Gravity         200          250           450          167
3. Bendang Tapah 8ulu/                                                                                   Gravity
Hilir                200       100           450       -      225    225      -      -       -     & pmpin         200          250           450          SW
4. Bendaug Ulu
hengkuang            230        70           450       -       -     225    225      -       -      Gravity        200          250           450           147
5. Bendang Pantai
Besar                270       130           600       -      300    300      -      -       -     Gravity         200          160           450          217
6. Bendang Chopin
Kanan                200       100           450       -       -     200    250      -       -       pmiag         200          250           450 U0
7. Bendang Behrang          20      130           220       50    170      -       -       -      -      P 1img         200          300           450 
B. Bendang Bekor           140       60           400       -       -     250    150       -      -      Gravity        200           -             4U9           70
9. Bendang Saiong          350       -             700      -       -     400    300       -      -      ?-ing          200          350            49           140
10. lendang Kuak Sulu      200        -            200       -       50    150      -       -      -      Gravity        200          400           4S0           l0
11. Bendang Pari           200        -            250       -       -      150    100      -      -      Gravity        200          350            450          a1
12. Bendang Chainan        230        -            300       -       -     200    100       -      -      Gravity        200          300            450          130
Total           5,176       750         8,070      325  1,020  3,000  2,085  1,300    340                                                             3,391



MALYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE InRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Selangor
Estimated   Eatimated   Estimated
Potential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreae        Estimated      Proposed Expenditure (MS Thousands)        Type of    Cropping        Yield      Project       Ibuse-
Name                Present   Adi-  lame Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gatangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tionAl (X$ Thousands)                                                             (I)        acre)         acre)    Deafited
(1)                   (2)     (3)         (4)       (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)       (11)          (12)        (13)          (14)        (15)
1. Sg. Panjang Sabak      2,500     -         4,000       -      500  1,500  2,000      -      -     Pumping        200          300           700         850
Dare



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL ShALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Negeri Sembilan
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Potential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)          Type of    Cropping         Yield        Project       Rouse-
Name                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (MS Thousands)                                                                  (Z)         acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                    (2)     (3)          (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)          (11)          (12)         (13)          (14)          (15)
1.  Bangkahulu Ext.          -       200         569         -      200    232    137       -       -      Pumping         200           -             500          130
2.  Air Kuning               50       63         255          -      -       -      155    100      -      Gravity         145          200            450           75
3.  Pulau Mampat            190       -          463          -     200      63    200       -      -      Gravity         200          200            450          125
4.  Sg. Dua Besar dan
Kecil                 251      150         661         -       -     250    211    200        -     Gravity          150          400           500           265
5.  Sri Jemapoh             100       20         200         -      120      80      -       -      -      Gravity         120          400            500           80
6.  Mampas                   90       30          200         -      -       -       -      200     -      Gravity         135           400           550           80
7.  Dioh Kecil dan Besar   90         30         210         -       -       -       -      110    100    Gravity          150          400            550           80
8.  Ulu Sungkak              60      100         270          -      -      100    170       -      -      Gravity         125           400           550           105
9.  Inas                    440       -           320         -      -      150    170       -      -      Gravity         200           350           500           290
10.  Galau                   230       -            56         _      56      -       -       -      -      Gravity         165           350           500           150
11.  Pilah/Gacong            280       -            15         15     -       -       -       -      -      Gravity         155           350           500           185
12.  Ulu Inas                146       -            45         -      -       45      -       -      -      Gravity         200           350           500            95
13.  Tanggai                 328       -           137         -      -       -      105      32     -      Gravity         200           350           500          220
14.  Ulu Bendol              104       -            15         -      -       -       15      -      -      Gravity         160           350           500            70
15.  Ulu Jempol            1,300       -            40         -      40      -       -       -      -      Gravity         130           350           500          865
16.  Ulu Parit               140       -            35         -      -       -       -       35     -      Gravity         125           350           500            95
17.  Kg. Tinggal             328       -            37         -      -       -       -       -       37    Gravity         175           350           500           220
18.  Kuala Klawang           280       -            30         30     -       -       -       -      -      Gravity         200           400           550           lea
19.  Sg. Ulawang             245       -          360          -      -      100    260       -      -      Gravity         185           400           550           160
20.  S8. Jerang              318       -          450          -      -      150    300       -       -     Gravity         195           400           550           210
21.  Tiga Nenek              209       -           217         -     217      -       -       -       -     Gravity         200           380           500           140
22.  Cheoubon                426       -          405          -      -      166    157       82      -     Gravity         200           350           500           285
23.  Ptnajis                 204       -           598        100    268    230       -       -       -     Gravity         200           400           550           135



Proposed Schemes in Negeri Sembilan (con't.)
Estiated   Estimated   Estimated
Bbtential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (N$ Thousauds)          Type of    Cropping         Yield       Project       House-
Name                Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gar LngsI    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                 (Z)         acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                   (2)      (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)          (11)          (12)         (13)          (14)         (15)
24.  Jelavai                 150       -          270         -       -      100    170      -       -     Gravity         200          400            550          100
25.  Londah                  200       -          250         -       -       -     198      52      _     Pumping         200          400            550          133
26.  Keru                    213       -          100         -       40      60     -       -       -     Gravity         150          380            500          142
27.  Kg  Dacing              350       -          300         -      130    120      50      -       -     Gravity         200          350            500          233
28.  Kg. Kering I            123       -           30         30      -       -      -       -       -     Gravity         160          400            550           82
29.  Pantai                  121       -          146         35    111       -      -       -             Gravity         200          350            500           S0
30.  Jimah                   200       -          200         -      150      50     -       -       -     Gravity         160          350            500          133
31.  Legong Hilir            818       -          910         -      250    350    310       -       -     Gravity         160          400            550          545
32.  Sg. Layang              620       -          200         -       -       50    150      -       -     Gravity         170          400            550          413
33.  Ulu Gemencheh           118       -          220         -       -       50    170      -       -     Gravity         200          400            550           78
34. landong                  150       -          150         -      100      50     -       -       -     Gravity         135          350            500          100
35.   _ Wong                 159       -          265         -      150    100       15     -       -     Gravity         200           350           500          106
36.   . Jeepol II            454       -           60         -       40      20     -       -       -     Gravity         200           400           550          302
37.  K.obkok                 110       -          174         -       74    100      -       -       -     Gravity         200          350            500           73
30.  Cbelogeh                223       -          303         -      200    103       -      -       -     Gravity         145           350           500          148
39.  Sri Nbnanti             350       -          200         -      100    100      -       -       -     Gravity         200           400           550          233
40.  K. Uuri                 282       -          180         -       80    100       -      -       -      Gravity        200           400           550           U58
41.  Sg. Raya                640       -          10         -       50    100      -       -       -     gravity         170           400           550          426
42.  P?da  g  iawas          360       -          230         -       -       -     200      30      -      Gravity        2l0           460           530          240
43.  Durin Gaming            230       -          210         -       70    100       40     -       -      gravity        183           350           500           153
4. Triang Hilr              560       -          290         -       70    100    120       -       -     0 avity          135          406           550           373
45.. Paradong                160       -          300         -       70    100    130       -       -      Gravlty        200           400           550           106
44b  Ulu KLawang             200       -          350         -       71    132    147       -       -      0tbity         JO            400           550           130
47-  T.Pttaaseh              200       -           43         -       -       43     -       -       -      Gr,ity         10            350           500           130
4      p.  j pg Lfsu        324       -          356         -      100    100       -      -       -      Gravity        200           360           500          .216
Total           12,770      33      11.311        210  2,957  3.394  3,580    611    137                                                               9,100
0
_  _  _   .                                                                               _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rt



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Melaka
Estimated   Estimated   Estiuated
Pbtential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreate        Estimated      Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)          Type of    Cropping        Yield       Prloject       HDUSe-
hae                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (ff$ Thousands)                                                               (1          acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                   (2)      (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)         (11)          (12)        (13)          (14)         (15)
1.  Tanjong Jidara          484       -          400        100    200    100       -       -      -      Gravity        100          250            500         323
2. Solok Rantau
hujang                 100      -           89         -       40     49      -       -      -      Gravity        100          250            500          67
3.  lam,an Cina Besar        250      -          210         -      100    110      -       -      -      Gravity         100          250           500         167
4.  Jasia Stage 1            866      -          500         -      200    200    100       -      -      Gravity         120          380           500         511
S. Xla    Sum=&             100      -            66        50      16      -      -       -      -      Gravity         200          350           500          33
6.  Ibah Selandar            170      -           130        -       -      100     30      -      -      Gravity         170          400           500          67
7. brliau                    391      -           94         -       50     44      -       -      -      Pumping         100          350           500         261
K   cobou                    715      -           186        93      93     -       -       -      -      Gravity         140          350           500         333
K.   alok lioba            1,200      -          413         -       -      250    163      -      -      Pumping         200          410           500         400
Total            4,276                2,088        243    699    853    293                                                                          2,162



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Johore
Eetlmated   Estimted   Estimated
Pbtential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated      Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)          Type of    Cropping        Yield       Project       House-
Name                Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                (x)         acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                   (2)      (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)         (11)          (12)        (13)          (14)         (15)
1.  Savah Lubok Bakol        500       -         350          50    200    100      -       -       -     Gravity         100          250           450          260
2.  Savah LiAng Iatu         200       -.         150         50     70      30     -       -       -     Gravity         100          250           450          123
Total              700                  500        100    270    130                                                                                    383
eD K
co 4



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Pahang
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Potential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)           Type of    Cropping        Yield        Project       House-
Name                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                  (Z)         acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                    (2)      (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)          (11)           (12)        (13)          (14)          (15)
1.  Paya Permatang
Pauh                  200      100          300       150    150       -      -       -       -      Pumping         130          250           500          200
2.  Paya Mambang            410      400           400        -     200    200       -       -       -     Pumping         150          300            600         230
3.  Paya Beluru             120       80           100        80     20      -       -       -       -     Pumping         200          250            500         150
4.  Paya Pahang Tua       3,375       -         2,000         -      -      950    600    300    150    Pumping            200          300            600       1,770
5.  Paya Alor Lintah         40       90            65        -      65      -       -       -      -      Inundation    100            200            350          40
6.  Paya Siang               -       120            80        -      80      -       -       -      -      Inundation      100           -             300          40
7.  Paya Yangsar
Stage II              400     350           205        60    145      -       -       -       -      Pumping        200           300           600          100
8.  Paya Lang Stage II    460        890        2,300         -     800    800    395    240         65    Pumping         200          250            500         150
9.  Paya KLchor Tui          30      150           200        50    150      -       -       -       -     Gravity         180          300            600          45
10.  Paya Ulu Dong            25      225           125        50      75     -       -       -       -     Gravity         200          300            600          55
11.  Paya Sg. Temau           -       400           300        80    220      -       -       -       -     Gravity         200           -             600          30
12.  Pays Serengkam          100      100           100        -      60      40      -       -       -     Pumping         200          250            500         100
13.  Pay& Pakoh              200      200           200        -       80    120      -       -       -     Inundation    100            200            300         120
14.  Paya Tebat               72      348           420        -      100    200    120       -       -     Pumping         200          200            400         200
15.  Pay& Tg. Medang         155      200           355        -      55    200    100        -       -     Pumping         200           250           500         ISO
16.  Paya Teoai Hilir        310      100           310        -      50    160    100        -       -     Pumping         200           300           600         245
17.  Paya !engkuang
Ladang                250      650        2,400        -      705    850    695    150        -      Pumping         160          250            500         100
18.  Paya Kol                 50      100            75        -      65      10      -       -       -     Inuntdtica    100             250           300          25
19.  Paya TualAng             50       70            60        -      55       5      -       -      -      InumdAtion    100            200            350          20
20.  Paya Uru Batu Samar   40          80            60        -       55      5      -       -       -     Inundation    100             200           350           so
21.  Paya&Nlal Tengh         100       40            75        -       65     10      -       -       -     Inunadtion    100             200           300           40
22. Pay&a vah                 50      100            75        -       -      65      10      -       -      Inundatiou    100            300           400          100
23.  Paya Kg. Jay- Gading   40        160           100        -       -      20      80      -       -      Inundation    100            300           400          100
U4.  Pya BSkit lerok          -       200           200        -       -     150      50      -       -      lnunation    100              -            300           80
25.  ra lerkat *etapamg   -           150            75        -       -      50      25      -       -      Inundation    100             -            300          230
Total           6,477   5,313         10.580       470  3,195  3,835  2,175    690    215                                                               4,450
l!4



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT'
Proposed Schemes in Trengganu
Estimated   Estimated   Est>sated
Pbtential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage         Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)           Type of    Cropping          Yield        Project       House-
Name                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981    1982    Project              Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                    (x)         acre)          acre)     Benefited
(1)                    (2)      (3)          (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)    (10)          (11)           (12)         (13)           (14)         (15)
1.  Balai Besar            1,000   2,000         3,000         -      600  1,100    950    350         -    Pumping           200           250           350          800
2.  Kg. Fikri                100   1,000            650       200    240    210        -       -       -    Con. Drainage  100              180            350         340
3.  Pengkalan Nangka         600      600        2,500        300     700  1,500       -       -       -    Pumping           200           180            400         890
4.  Kerandang Timur          400      600        1,900        100     700    650    450        -       -    Gravity           200           200            400         520
5.  Alor Panjang              -       800           560        -      180    380       -       -       -    Con. Drainage  100               -             350         270
6.  Paya Kubang Hitam        160      120           250        -       -       -      250      -       -    Gravity           200           150            400          93
7.  Baruh Tengah             120       -            240        -       -       -      240      -       -    Gravity           200           250            400         120
8.  Berhala Kayu             500       -            900        10      90    300    400       100      -    Pumping           200           200            400         450
9.  Bintang                  600   2,400         2,100         30    300    800    570        400      -    Con. Drainage  100              250            350         800
10.  Improvement to
Nerus               5,650      400         3,300        -       -      400  1,000  1,300       600   Pumping            190          350            530       2,600
11.  Kg. Tempurung            350      150           400        10    170    220        -       -       -    Pumping           200           150            400         200
12.  Marang Valley          1,300       -          1,600        -       -      800    400      300     100   Pumping           200           250            400          520
13.  Improvement to
Small Schemes       1,050       -            500        50     100    150    150        50      -    Pumping            200          300            400          403
14.  Improvement to
Pulau Musang        4,090       -          2,000        -       -      820    680      500      -    Pumping            190          300            485       1,800
Total           15,920   8,070        19,900        700  3,080  7,330  5,090  3,000         700                                                            9,806
4- 
01



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Kelantan
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Potential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated      Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)          Type of    Cropping        Yield        Project       House-
Name                Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                (x)         acre)         acre)    Benefited
(1)                   (2)       (3)        (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)         (11)           (12)        (13)          (14)         (15)
2. Telosan Rasau
(a) pump house no. 1   350         -        1,047       147    400    500       -       -       -     Pumping         150          200           400          167
(b) pump house no. 2   750         -          927       100    400    427       -       -       -     Pumping         150          200           400          395
3. Hilir Sat
(a) Kemuning           1,300       -        2,037       237    700    900    200        -       -     Gravity         120          200           400          570
4. Sg. Bagan
(a) Sg. Dewan            317       -          466       250    216      -       -       -       -     Gravity         120          200           400          110
(b) Sg. Bagan I          140       -           564       -      300    264      -       -       -     Gravity         120          200           400           60
(c) Sg. Bagan II         562       -           373      100    273      -       -       -       -     Gravity         130          200           400          300
(d) Sg. Rusa             362       -           504       -      300    204      -       -       -     Gravity         100          200           400          150
5. Sg. Panyit             2,550        -        5,100        -     500  1,000  1,800  1,800        -      Gravity        100          200            400          950
6. Sawa/Bechah Lara         258        -          516        -      -      300    216      -       -      Gravity        100          200            400          100
7. Kenanga                  140        -          280        -      -       -       -      180    100    Pumping         200          200            400           50
8. Kubur Datu               187        -          374        -      -       -       -     274    100    Pumping          200          200            400          100
9. Sg. Kenor                328        -          656        -      -      300    356      -       -      Pumping        200          200            400          150
10. Lawang                 1,200        -        2,400        -      -      500    900  1,000       -      Gravity        125          200            400          550
11. Gual Ipoh                300        -          600       100    500      -       -      -       -      Gravity        150          200            400          125
12. Rantau Panjang         5,000        -       10,650    1,200  2,500  2,500  2,150  2,000    300    Pumping             150          200            400        2,200
13. Bakat                    100       700       1,600        50     80    500    970       -       -      Gravity        100           200           400          250
Total           13,844       700      28,094    2,184  6,169  7,395  6,592  5,254    500                                                               6,227
Note:  Kelantan Scheme No. I was eliminated during the final stages of project preparation (para. 4.02).
I-LI
(D A
- a



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Sabah
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Potential    Present    Yield with    No. of
Acreage        Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)          Type of    Cropping         Yield       Project       House-
Name                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Project    Intensity  (gantangs/   (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                 (%)         acre)          acre)    Benefited
(1)                    (2)      (3)         (4)        (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)         (11)           (12)        (13)          (14)          (15)
6. Penampang              3,400        -        4,400       400  1,000  2,000  1,000        -       -      Pumping        200           350           500          850
7. Bengkoka (Pintas
Hilir)                  -      1,760       1,800       400    400  1,000       -       -       -     Pumping         200          300            600          440
9. Membakut               1,300    1,600        4,030       430  1,000  1,300    900    400         -      Gravity         200          350           500           725
10. Kawang-Kawang            200    1,800        1,200       100    500    500    100        -       -      Gravity         100          340           500          500
12. Timbang Batu              -        500         500        -       -       -       -     400    100    Pumping          200           350           500           125
13. Tamiu Darat              300       100         320        -       -       -       -     200    120    Pumping          200           340           500           100
14. Bingkor                5,000        -        1,800        -      500    700    600       -       -      Gravity         200          350           600        1,250
Total           10,200    5,760       14,050      1,330  3,400  5,500  2,600  1,000    220                                                               7,520
Note:  Sabah Schemes Nos. 1-5, 8 and 11 were eliminated during the final stages of project preparation (para. 4.02).                                                         | m
m x
4 a



IIALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Schemes in Sarawak
Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Pbtential     Present    Yield with        No. of
Acreage         Estimated       Proposed Expenditure (M$ Thousands)            Type of    Cropping         Yield        Project        House-
Name                 Present   Addi-   Base Cost    1977    1978   1979   1980   1981    1982           Project      Intensity  (gantangs/    (gantangs/    holds
tional (M$ Thousands)                                                                    (M)         acre)          acre)     Benefited
(1)                    (2)       (3)         (4)        (5)      (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)          (11)           (12)        (13)           (14)          (15)
1.  Sg. Penasu (Bliti)       600       320        1,380       100    600    680        -       -       -    Pumping            200          280            600          270
2.  Sg. Sunga                400       360         1,140       50    200    890        -       -       -    Pumping            200          280            600          250
3.  Kpg. Banyok              220    1,080          1,950       97    800    900       153      -       -    Pumping            200          280            500          320
4.  Daro                   1,260    2,740         2,000        -       -      500    800    700        -    Con. Drainage    100            180            450          980
8.  Rumah Gendang            380       590           485       -       -       -       -      300     185   Con. Drainage   100             229            400          240
9.  Sebuboh Engkala          650        -            325      200     125      -       -       -       -    Con. Drainage   100             360            500           150
10.  Tg. Kenkabang            640        -            320      150     170      -       -       -       -    Con. Drainage   100             360            500           150
11.  Sg. Entulang             400       200           900       50     100    300    300       150      -    Con. Drainage   200             360            600           150
12.  Sg. Gran                 400       340           770       -       -       -      500    270       -    Con. Drainage    150            360            600           180
13.  Sg. Antek                430       420           425       50    200    175        -       -       -    Con. Drainage    100            360            500           210
14.  Bakong                   280       170           225       -       -       -       -      150      75   Con. Drainage    100            360            500           110
15.  Menkalap                 225       375           900       -       -      300    300    300        -    Pumping            180          300            450           120
16.  Kpg. Medong              400        -            600       50    300    250        -       -       -    Pumping            190          270            400           282
17.  Sekuduk Scheme           600        -            900       -       -       -      450    450       -    Pumping            200          300            450           200
18.  Sg. Renam                600       200           900       -      350    300    250        -       -    Pumping            150          250            400           300
19.  Entebu Kupang            340        -            500       -       -       -       -      300     200   Pumping            190          300            400           600
20.  Sg. Tiong                200        _            100       50      50      -       -       -       -    Con. Drainage   100             200            350           130
21.  Sg. Kau                  500        -            250      100    150       -       -       -       -    Con. Drainage    100            300            400           300
22.  Engkudu Peligong         108       300           200      100     100      -       -       -       -    Con. Drainage   100             300            400           700
23.  Kg. Tui/Dit              200       800           500       -       -       -       -      300    200   Con. Drainage    100             200            200           400
24.  Paya Selabak             118        -            120      100      20      -       -       -       -    Con. Drainage    100            300            400            50
25.  Muara Sg. Undup          600        -            300       -       50    150      100      -       -    Con. Drainage   100             280            400           400
26.  Sg. Undai                 20       460           200       -       -       -      200      -       -    Con. Drainage   100             280            350           150
Total            9,471     8,355        15,390   1,097  3,215  4,445  3,053  2,920          660                                                              6,642
Note:  Sarawak Schemes Nos. 5-7 were eliminated during the final stages of project preparation (para. 4.02).
Ia.z
4It1
Lix



ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Operation and Maintenance Equipment /a
Item            Description                            No.    Unit Cost    M$'000
No.                                                              M$          Total
1.  Dragline excavator, 5/8 cu yd                      8       150,000       1,200
2.  Motor grader                                       6        80,000         480
3. Roller (3 ton)                                      6        60,000         360
4.  Backhoe (1/4 cu yd) on wheels                      6        80,000         480
5.  Landrover                                         30        20,000         600
6.  Lorry (5 ton) c/w hydraulic crane                 10        45,000         450
7.  Tractor & trailer c/w hydraulic tipping            6        60,000         360
8.  Grass-cutting machine                             30         1,500          45
9.  Portable pump > 6" 0 (5 cu sec)                   10        15,000         150
10.  Portable pump up to 6" 0 (2 cu sec)               30         8,000         240
11.  Overhead crane (3 ton)                             3        20,000          60
12.  Hydraulic floor crane                             12        20,000         240
13.  Hydraulic press (50 ton)                           4        25,000         100
14.  Air compressor (10 cu ft/m)                       10         6,000          60
15.  Welding set (150 amp.)                            15         4,000          60
16.  Battery charger                                   18         1,000          18
17.  Power hacksaw                                      6         2,000          12
18.  Hydraulic trolley jack (1 ton)                    10         1,500          15
19.  Monkey winch                                       8         2,000          16
20.  Miscellaneous w/shop equipment                                             200
21.  Miscellaneous tools                                                         54
Subtotal                                                           5,200
Spare parts                                                                     300
Contingencies                                                                   500
Total                                                              6,000
/a For estimating purposes only. Adjustments, as necessary, may be made
during project implementation.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NIATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        The State and Federal DID's have had considerable experience in
the planning, design, construction and operation of irrigation and drainage
systems and have built up a cadre of well-trained technical staff. In
general, DID is able to implement large-scale projects which do not involve
highly specialized technical features, such as the Western Johore and North
Kelantan Projects, without consultant assistance. For the present project,
too, the project works require design techniques which are well understood
within DID and, therefore, no consultant assistance for project implementa-
tion is proposed.
2.        The Government has recognized, however, that technical assistance
would be useful in broadening DID's capabilities in planning and design, in
introducing new ideas from other countries, in codifying existing procedures
and in assisting DID in upgrading the standard of operation and maintenance
(O&M) for all its systems. Therefore, the Government has requested that the
project provide for the services of advisers in Planning, Design, and O&M.
It is envisaged that each adviser would be engaged for two years and that
suitable DID counterparts would be provided. While the advisers would use
the present project as a major focus for their activities, as it is national
in scope and has much planning and design work to be done, their work would
not be confined to the project, but would include the O&M of existing proj-
ects, the design of the more standardized elements of large-scale projects,
and the planning and ex-post evaluation of projects of all kinds.
3.        Brief terms of reference for the proposed advisers are given below.
Planning Adviser
4.        An adviser with broad international experience in irrigation
development and economic evaluation would be required. He would work within
DID's Planning and Design Branch but would also act as a liaison between DID,
the Economics and Statistics Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Agriculture Division of the Economic Planning Unit. His role would be two-
fold: the introduction of improved methods for project and subproject iden-
tification, selection, appraisal and optimization; and, the ex-post evaluation
of the performance of completed projects and the feeding back of insights
from such evaluations into the planning process. More specifically, the
adviser would:
I. Planning methodology
(a) develop appropriate techniques for the economic and social
evaluation of irrigation projects in the Malaysian context;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) codify such techniques so that they could be used by State
and lower-level officials for the identification and selec-
tion of irrigation projects, especially small-scale projects
with limited data availability;
(c) arrange and participate in training programs for Federal
and State DID personnel in the identification, selection,
appraisal and optimization of irrigation projects;
(d) in liaison with the design adviser and the design staff
of DID, evaluate methods for minimizing the costs of
projects and optimizing their rate of return. This would
include the evaluation of new materials, construction
techniques and operating systems;
(e) examine the appropriate types and intensities of on-farm
development for different types of irrigation systems in
different parts of the country and devise a program of
small pilot projects to test and compare such systems at
the field level;
(f) investigate the possibilities for crops other than rice
in existing and proposed irrigation projects;
(g) advise on special problems relating to subproject selec-
tion and appraisal that may arise in the course of the
National Small-Scale Irrigation Project;
II. Evaluation methodology
(h) select a set of projects, which are either characteristic
of a large number of projects or which have been unusually
successful or unsuccessful, for closer study;
(i) collate all existing information on the costs, technical
performance and economic and financial benefits of the sample
projects and, if necessary, arrange for the collection of
additional data in close coordination with other agencies
concerned with monitoring;
(j) draw conclusions on the likely benefits of characteristic
projects of various types;
(k) try to explain the reasons for the success or failure of
various projects, with due regard to noneconomic, organiza-
tional and social factors;
(1) formulate recommendations of any needed changes to selec-
tion, appraisal, design and operating criteria resulting
from the above studies;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(m)  devise a system for the continuous monitoring and evalu-
ation for all or a sample of newly-completed irrigation
schemes with special regard to the problems and costs of
collecting data on small schemes; and
(n) assist in the implementation of the above recommendations
for the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project.
Design Adviser
5.        An adviser with broad international experience in the design of
irrigation systems would be required. He would work within DID's Planning
and Design Branch at the federal level and with DID's design offices at the
state level. His main responsibilities would be in the refinement of exist-
ing design techniques and criteria, the introduction and evaluation of new
techniques, the codification of methodology and the training of staff. More
specifically, the adviser would:
(a) review DID's existing methods and criteria for the hydro-
logic, hydraulic, hydromechanical and structural design
of irrigation and drainage projects and suggest modifica-
tions aimed at improving operational performance and
reliability while minimizing capital and operating costs;
(b) in liaison with the planning adviser, evaluate new mater-
ials, construction techniques and operating systems;
(c) identify gaps in the existing design methods and suggest
appropriate ways of filling these;
(d) incorporate existing and revised methods for the design
of standardized components of irrigation systems into
manuals for junior DID staff;
(e) organize and participate in training course for junior
design staff at the state and federal levels;
(f) in liaison with the planning adviser, monitor the per-
formance of modified designs under field conditions;
(g) with regard to hydrologic analysis: assist in installing
measuring devices and measuring streamflows, particularly
for ungauged streams which are water sources for the
National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; use such records
to verify and update Hydrological Procedure No. 12; and
recommend a program of field and analytical studies, pos-
sibly involving the use of computer simulation, to further
refine hydrologic analysis in both the Peninsular and
Borneo States of Malaysia;



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(h) in liaison with the O&M adviser, examine DID experience
with the use of various water duties and operating sys-
tems and .acommend appropriate water duties and rotational
schedules for schemes of various types, sizes and levels
of on-farm development; and
(i) review DID's cost estimating procedures and recommend any
needed improvements.
O&M Adviser
6.        An adviser with broad international experience in the O&M of irri-
gation systems, including experience in the humid tropics, would be required.
He would work both with DID's Assistant Director General (North) and Assistant
Director General (South), as well as spending considerable portions of his
time with the DID state officers and in the field. His main responsibilities
would be to review existing O&M procedures, to recommend appropriate O&M
procedures for various kinds of projects and to assist in training DID O&M
personnel. More specifically, the adviser would:
(a) review in the field DID's present O&M procedures in all States
and assist DID to prepare an inventory of the present problems,
state of deterioration and need for rehabilitation for all irri-
gation projects under DID's jurisdiction;
(b) recommend appropriate O&M procedures for projects of various
kinds, sizes and levels of on-farm development and spell out
the implications in terms of annual budgets, staffing and the
need for additional equipment and vehicles. Rehabilitation
or deferred maintenance needed to restore irrigation systems
to their original condition should also be costed;
(c) assist DID in preparing formal requests to the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Economic Planning Unit and the Treasury for
any increases in annual expenditures and/or rehabilitation
projects which may arise from (a) and (b);
(d) review the usefulness of innovative techniques, equipment
and materials to reduce the cost of O&M;
(e) incorporate the recommendations on O&M procedures into a
manual, or a set of manuals for staff at different levels;
(f) organize and participate in training courses for DID staff,
mainly at the state and project level, and make proposals
for institutionalizing such training;
(g) participate in study tours to adjacent Southeast Asian coun-
tries to abserve different O&M methods;



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(h) examine the appropriate role of project beneficiaries in
the O&M of irrigation projects, especially at the tertiary
and quaternary levels and in small-scale schemes; and
(i) recommend on the incentives needed to retain well-qualified
technical staff in DID's O&M units.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
DID Staffing and Training
Introduction
lo        DID professional staff is divided between headquarters units, which
include about 50 professional engineers, and state DID Departments under the
directicn of state DID directors, with a total complement of about 150 profes-
sional engineers. All DID professional engineering staff are graduates of
fully accredited engineering faculties in Commonwealth countries (Malaysia,
United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Pakistan, or Australia) or the
United States. In addition, individual expatriate engineers are employed for
certain fixed-term assignments (chiefly from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and India),
and highly-qualified Malaysian engineers in certain specialized fields (e.g.,
hydrology) are occasionally employed on a consulting basis. New Zealand has
provided large resident teams of engineers for the past several years under
its bilateral assistance program through its national engineering consortium,
ENEX. ENEX teams have contributed substantially to the upgrading of DID's
hydrological capability, and are now completing the long-term Kelantan River
Basin Study, while other teams provided by the British and Australian Govern-
ments on bilateral assistance terms and by the US Bureau of Reclamation on
commercial terms have assisted in the preparation of specific projects.
2.        Permanent DID professional and technical engineering staff are
usually recruited by the Federal Public Services Commission (PSC). Some
technical staff are recruited by State Public Services Commissions. DID
is occasionally permitted to recruit graduate engineers directly from
the University of Malaya, employing them under attachment with permanent
appontmant to Government service following the usual recruitment procedure
by PSCO On-the-job training of new engineering recruits is normally pre-
scrbead for two years, in part to satisfy the professional qualifications
demanded by the Malaysian Institution of Engineers. Young engineers are
norma'lLy f'st assigned to a large construction project for experience in
construction methods and problems. This is normally followed by engineering
survey and office design assignments, rounding out the first two years of
work. After that, the engineer is posted in a district where experience is
gained in operation and maintenance of facilities and smallholder agricul-
tural practices and problems. Engineers with special aptitudes are identi-
fied and promoted on merit, with possible eventual posting to specialized
units in Kuala Lumpur, although the career paths of most senior DID staff
include considerable rotation among states, between state assignments and
headquarters, and among design, administrative, supervision, planning and
project management functions. The level of responsibility of field level DID
engineers 4s reflected in the fact that the average state-level professional
engineer currently supervises about M$1 million (US$400,000) of construction
work per annum.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        In the past DID O&M field staff have received most of their train-
ing on the job. To provide improved theoretical and practical training in
field level water management techniques, DID has prepared a Water Management
Training Center Project in cooperation with experts provided by the Japan
International Cooperation Agency. This project, which is expected to com-
mence in 1977, will provide centralized facilities and demonstration farms
in the Kemubu irrigation project area for medium-term training courses for
DID irrigation inspectors and overseers and DOA agricultural extension
agents, and short-term courses for more senior engineering and agricultural
staff. The Government of Japan is considering a proposal to provide expert
advisors, instructors, consultants, and equipment for the Center, while GOM
has allocated M$1.7 million under the Third Malaysia Plan for construction
of facilities and land development. The training programs, which should be
underway in 1978, are expected to contribute substantially to DID's O&M
capability at state level throughout the country.
4.        Incremental staffing requirements for project implementation at the
federal level include a senior engineer position in DID for the Project Coor-
dinator (para. 5.01), while the Planning Division of Federal DID would require
6 additional design engineers and 12 engineering assistants to complete design
of project schemes on schedule. State DID offices would require a total of
27 additional engineers and 178 engineering assistants of various grades to
implement the project (Table 1), and an additional 22 irrigation inspectors
and 61 overseers to operate and maintain completed schemes (Table 2), as well
as considerable additional lower level field staff. Special recruitment
exercises may be necessary to ensure that these staff positions are filled
once they are approved, particularly in regard to technical assistants and
technicians. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that all required
staff would be provided in a timely fashion, and that arrangements would be
made to finance the required staff buildup at state level on an ongoing
basis.
5.        While the present pattern of training and career development of DID
professional engineering staff (para. 2) has resulted in a well qualified and
experienced corps of engineers capable of exercising considerable responsibil-
ity and autonomy, it is felt that the professional development of the staff
would be enhanced by exposure to advanced methods of engineering design and
planning, and to the operation and maintenance methods and procedures prac-
ticed in irrigation agencies in developed countries. Provision would thus
be made under the project for intermediate term study tours (four months to
one year in duration) in such agencies overseas for eight DID engineers.
This component would provide a total of 48 man-months of training, with the
contents of each study tour tailored to the particular requirements of the
selected trainee. An estimated budget for a typical six-month study tour is
presented in Table 3.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMIALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Engineering Staff Requirements at State Level
Additional Staff Required
Technical
State         Engineer  Assistant  Technician              Remarks
Perlis               1           1          3
Kedah                4           7         21        One engr. Superscale "G"
Perak                2           4         12
Selangor             -           1          3        One engr. Senior Timescale
N. Sembilan          3           4         13
Melaka               -           1           3
Johore               -           -          1
Pahang               2           4         12
Trengganu            4           6         18        One engr. Superscale "G"
Kelantan             4           6         18        One engr. Superscale "G"
Sabah                3           4         12        One engr. Senior Timescale
Sarawak              4           6         18       One engr. Superscale "G"
Total         27          44         134



ANNEX 7
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Operation and Maintenance Staff Requirements at State Level
Senior
Irrigation         Irrigation        Irrigation
State                 Overseer          Inspector         Inspector
Perlis                     2
Kedah                      12                  4                  1
Perak                      2
Selangor                   1
N. Sembilan                 2
Melaka                      I
Johore                      1
Pahang                     3                   1
Trengganu                   3                  1
Kelantan                   10                  3                  1
Sabah                     14                   5                  2
Sarawak                   10                   3                  1
Total                61                  17                  5



ANNEX 7
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Budget for Typical Six-month Study Tour
US $
Training program fee                                    3,000
(assuming participation at 2 or 3 offices
or sites)
Subsistence                                            4,000
(assuming 2 or 3 stationary assignments
plus shorter visits to other facilities)
Domestic transport                                        500
Health insurance                                          120
Publications                                              100
Incidental expenses                                        80
(including pocket calculator)
International travel                                    1,600
(economy class)
Total cost                                        9,400



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Feasibility Study for Rompin/Endau Irrigation Development
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        An extensive area between the Rompin and Endau Rivers in the State
of Pahang in Peninsular Malaysia has been identified for large-scale padi
development under the Third Malaysia Plan (Map 12694). It is expected that
physical development would commence towards the latter part of the Third
Malaysia Plan (about mid-1979) and continue into the Fourth Malaysia Plan
period (1981-85).
Objectives
2.        The principal objective would be to carry out a technical and
economic feasibility study for the development of some 40,000 ac (16,000 ha)
of new land in the Rompin/Endau region for padi cultivation. This proposed
development would be analyzed within the framework of the Government's
current overall agricultural development program under the Third Malaysia
Plan for raising income levels, providing employment opportunities, and
increasing rice production to attain self-sufficiency.
Background and Guidelines
3.        The Rompin/Endau region comprises some 115,000 ac (46,500 ha) of
virgin jungle and swamp. Topographic and preliminary soils surveys have
indicated that about 40,000 ac (16,000 ha) would be suited for padi culti-
vation. From a preliminary assessment, sufficient water resources appear to
be available to support this development. Physical development and economic
exploitation of these resources would, however, be subject to the availabil-
ity of a large padi farming community, which must be established progres-
sively by attracting settlers from other regions of the country. The project
would therefore also include the engineering infrastructure and institutional
support required by a settlement program. Settlement of farmers for padi
cultivation in the area is subject to policy decisions at both state and
federal levels.
4.        The consultants should examine the proposed development critically,
so that planning, development strategy and proposed works for the area are
both technically sound and consistent with the Government's overall develop-
ment objectives and economic and social policies. In view of the competing
use for limited resources for infrastructural development, the proposals must
be optimized in time and space, in capital and operating cost and should be



ANNEX 8
Page 2
consistent with proven local institutional and engineering standards, methods
and practices, simple to operate and maintain, and capable of generating the
expected returns.
Study Approach and Scope of Work
5.        To arrive at an optimum development plan, the Consultant should
initially examine all available development alternatives. The Consultant's
study shall be guided by the Government's broad policies affecting regional
development and land settlement in addition to other relevant development
policies, and shall derive preliminary findings and recommendations based on
careful analysis of alternatives, each studied in sufficient depth to ensure
the validity and accuracy of the conclusions. It is therefore necessary that
throughout the course of the study the Consultant should maintain close
liaison with the Government in regard to policies and policy decisions that
may affect the study results, and be readily responsive to them.
6.        The Consultant shall prepare a work plan for approval.  The work
plan shall include, but not necessarily be confined to, the following:
Phase I
(a) collate and analyze all existing data and information;
(b) within the time available, collect additional data as required;
(c) determine the available water resources and the safe yield
from each river, with and without storage facilities;
(d) determine the water demand for irrigation and for domestic,
industrial and other uses;
(e) determine the feasibility of major engineering works for
water control and use;
(f) delineate areas suitable for padi cultivation, determine
soil suitability, assess yield potential, and measures to
achieve this;
(g) delineate areas suitable for other irrigated or nonirrigated
crops;
(h) outline alternative agircultural development plans for the area;
(i) determine, in consultation with Government, the feasibility and
potential for resettling padi farming families from other regions
of the country and/or alternative plans for irrigation development,
considering the rate at which farming communities could be estab-
lished for achieving full development within the target period of
five to seven years, legal restrictions, willingness of padi



ANNEX 8
Page 3
farmers to resettle and other social factors. Two distinct
alternatives shall be investigated:
(i) estate type of development (mechanized or otherwise),
where the farming families would be wage earners employed
by a Corporation responsible for the development; and
(ii) smallholder type of development where the farming com-
munities would own an economic parcel of land for padi
cultivation;
(j) designate and delineate areas for settlement of the farming
population, townships and growth centers as an integral part
of the intended development;
(k) make a preliminary estimate of infrastructural requirements,
such as main, feeder and farm roads, electricity and water
supplies, and other services;
(1) at a prefeasibility level of detail, design and estimate costs
of various development systems for achieving the targeted devel-
opment, assess their economic returns, and compare their merits
and demerits;
Phase II
(m)  employing the conclusions derived from Phase I and in consulta-
tion with the Government, design the selected system to feasibil-
ity level of detail, sufficient for appraisal by an international
institution for financing purposes. The study shall include, but
not necessarily be confined to, the following components:
(n) engineering works and infrastructure: a complete layout of the
irrigation, drainage and road networks, down to irrigation blocks
of 500 ac (200 ha), as well as a sample layout covering 10% of
the project area showing a complete layout of the drainage and
irrigation system, water control structures (including water
measuring devices) and roads down to the farm level;
(o) feasibility design of all major structures (dams, diversion works,
pumping stations); a typical layout for settlement with essential
ammenities (road, drainage, water supply, schools and health
centers, etc.);
(p) a cost estimate, construction schedule and equipment requirements
for the above works, with recommendations on the appropriate size
and scope of contracts;
(q) agricultural production systems and practices: a complete pre-
scription of cropping patterns and schedules, water management



ANNEX 8
Page 4
practices, recommended varieties and farming practices, includ-
ing the use of fertilizers and pesticides for each of the pro-
posed irrigated or nonirrigated crops;
(r) an analysis of farm income and its rate of increase with the
project and comparison with the present incomes of project
beneficiaries;
(s) proposals on cost recovery;
(t)  description of agricultural services needed to support the
project, together with estimated manpower, buildings, equipment,
and budgetary requirements;
(u) management and administrative organization: detailed prescrip-
tion of a management organization responsible for undertaking
the integrated engineering, agricultural and socio-economic
development of the area, its terms of reference, organization,
staffing and budgetary requirements;
(v) development of a financing plan for the intended development;
(w) economic, and possibly social, evaluation of the proposed
development.
Consultant's Qualifications
7.        The Consultant's personnel assigned to the study shall be special-
ists in large-scale water resources development and irrigation systems plan-
ning, with experience in rice production projects, on-farm water management
and integrated development. The principal water resources, irrigation and
infrastructure engineers, agriculturalists, and agricultural economists
should have appropriate experience in their fields, with a demonstrated back-
ground in planning and the analysis of development alternatives. The Consul-
tants shall have succesfully worked in physical and cultural environments
similar to those of M4alaysia.
Time Schedule and Reports
8.        The Consultant shall submit an Inception Report, one month after
the starting date; an Interim Report, six months after the starting date,
presenting the Consultant's findings on Phase I of the study; a Draft Final
Report within fifteen months after the starting date; and a Final Report
suitable for presentation to an international institution for project financ-
ing and incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultant
after considering comments by the Government on the Draft Final Report,
within eighteen months of the starting date.
9.        It is estimated that the study would require about 100 professional
man-months from the Consultant. An approximate breakdown by disciplines is
shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Staffing of Feasibility Study
Consultant Team                                                Man-months
Team leader (Planning Engineer or Economist)                        15
Irrigation engineer                                                15
Agriculturalist                                                     12
Mapping expert                                                       1
Hydrologist                                                          3
On-farm development engineer                                         3
Structural engineer                                                  6
Mechanical engineer                                                  3
Agricultural engineer (Farm Mechanization)                           3
Specifications and cost estimates specialist                         3
Agricultural economist                                               4
Sociologist                                                         6
Legal expert                                                         1
Public utilities planner                                             3
O&M engineer                                                         2
Soils expert                                                         2
Organization and management specialist                               3
Subtotal                                84
Short-term experts and contingency                                   6
Head office support                                                10
Total                                  100
Note: A substantial amount of professional manpower would also be
required on DID's part to support the study. In addition, a
considerable amount of local technician manpower will be
required.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rompin/Endau Feasibility Study: Cost Estimate
Item                                                     US $
Consultant Input
Salaries, expenses, overhead and profit for 100
professional man-months                                       600,000
International travel                                             35,000
Domestic travel                                                  30,000
Equipment                                                        10,000
Cables, telex and telephones                                      3,000
Printing of reports                                              10,000
Subtotal                                                  688,000
Local Input
Salaries, expenses and overhead of professional, sub-
professional and technical DID and DOA counterpart
staff for 100 man-months                                       60,000
Logistical support                                               40,000
Subtotal                                                   100,000
Total base cost                                            788,000



ANNEX 9
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Summary
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
---- (M$ million) ---         --- (US$ million) ---    -- (%) -
Construction Program (Annex 4)
Civil works                        74.9    52.0   126.9          29.8    20.6    50.4         41
Pumps                               1.0      9.1    10.1          0.4      3.6     4.0        90
Engineering and supervision        12.9      1.5    14.4          5.1      0.6     5.7        10
Subtotal                     88.8    62.6   151.4          35.3    24.8    60.1         41
O&M Equipment (Annex 5)               0.3      5.2     5.5          0.1      2.1     2.2        95
Technical Assistance (Annex 6)        0.1      1.0     1.1           -       0.4     0.4        90
Training (Annex 7)                     -       0.2     0.2           -       0.1     0.1       100
Rompin/Endau Feasibility
Study (Annex 8)                     0.3      1.7     2.0          0.1      0.7     0.8        90
Base cost estimate                   89.5    70.7   160.2          35.5    28.1    63.6         44
Physical contingencies               13.2    10.1    23.3           5.2      4.0     9.2        43
Expected price increases             23.3    17.4    40.7           9.3      6.9    16.2        43
Total project cost                  126.0    98.2   224.2          50.0    39.0    89.0         44



ANNEX 10
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                       Calendar Years
Item                             Cost /a    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
--------------- (US$ million) --------------
Construction program             69.09       3.08   14.11   22.05   16.98   10.30    2.57
O&M equipment                     2.40        -       0.44    0.95    0.79    0.22       -
Technical assistance              0.42        -       0.13    0.18    0.09    0.02       -
Training                          0.08        -       0.02    0.03    0.03       -
Feasibility Study                 0.79        -       0.31    0.48      -        -        -
Subtotal                    72.78       3.08   15.01   23.69   17.89   10.54    2.57
Expected price increases /b    16.22         0.06    1.30    4.38    5.15    4.10    1.23
Total project cost          89.00
/a Includes physical contingencies.
/b Annual rates of price escalation used were (para. 4.13):
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Civil works and services
Annual percentage increase                 9        9       9        8        8       8
Compounded escalation factor                .02      .09     .19      .29      .39     .48
Equipment
Annual percentage increase                 7.5      7.5     7.5      7        7        -
Compounded escalation factor                .02      .08     .16      .24      .33     -
Note: Compounding begins in mid-1977, as all base costs and physical contingencies
are estimated at mid-1977 prices.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                     US$ million Equivalent
1978
1st
2nd                                       0.4
1979
1st                                       2.5
2nd                                       6.0
1980
ist                                      11.7
2nd                                      17.6
1981
ist                                      23.8
2nd                                      29.5
1982
lst                                      34.0
2nd                                      37.2
1983
ist                                      39.0



ANNEX 11
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Estimated
Foreign
Estimated    Exchange   Proposed
Category                      Total Cost  Component  Allocation    Disbursement
--------- (US$ million) ---------    ---- (%)
(1) Civil works
Construction program                    50.4         20.6
Price contingencies (part)              12.7          5.2
Subtotal                           63.1         25.8        29.0            46
(2) Equipment and vehicles
100% of foreign
Pumps                                    4.0          3.6                  expenditures,
O&M equipment                            2.2          2.1                  100% of local
6.2          5.7                 expenditures ex-
Price contingencies (part)               1.3          1.2                  factory, or 90%
of imported
Subtotal                            7.5          6.9         6.6     items procured
locally
(3) Technical services
Technical assistance                     0.4          0.4                  100% of total
Training                                 0.1          0.1                  expenditures
Feasibility study                        0.8          0.7
1.3          1.2
Price contingencies (part)               0.1          0.1
Subtotal                            1.4          1.3         1.4
(4) Unallocated
Engineering and supervision /a           5.7          0.6
Remaining price contingencies            2.1          0.4
Physical contingencies                   9.2          4.0
Subtotal                           17.0         5.0         2.0
Total                              89.0        39.0        39.0            (44)
/a No disbursements would be made against this item.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production, Marketing and Price of Rice
Background
1.        Rice in Malaysia is almost entirely produced by smallholders operat-
ing less than 3 ha of padi land. The average padi farm area in Peninsular
Malaysia is 1.3 ha (3.1 ac), and outside the Muda region of Kedah and Perlis
this average drops to 1.1 ha (2.8 ac). About 55% of Peninsular Malaysia's
agricultural smallholders (350,000 families) grow some wet padi, and 26% of
all agricultural smallholders are specialized padi farmers, in the sense that
75% or more of their holding is padi land. 58% of Peninsular Malaysia's padi
farmers receive most of their total income from padi production. Although
padi production in the Borneo States is in general less advanced than in the
Peninsular States, it represents an even more important element in their
economic life as agriculture in those states is more subsistence-oriented in
nature. In Sabah 90% of the farmers grow some padi, and 60% of the farmers
(45% of the population) are mainly dependent on the crop for their livelihood.
Padi area holdings average between 1.2 and 2 ha (3-5 ac) in the DID irrigation
scheme areas in Sabah. In Sarawak, 58% of the economically active population
is engaged in padi production, and over 46% of the total population depend
either entirely or mainly on this single crop for their livelihood.  While
97% of the Peninsular's padi farmers are ethnic Malays, over two thirds of
the padi farmers in the Borneo States are members of indigenous tribes,
including Ibans, Kadazans, Muruts and Kelabits.
2.        Basic production statistics for Malaysia are kept for padi, which
is the unhusked and unmilled rice grain which has been threshed and winnowed
in the field and sun-dried. Occasionally these statistics are presented in
terms of milled rice, which is recovered from padi at an average conversion
rate of about .65, given the mix of milling equipment currently in use, and
the padi varieties produced in MIalaysia. Padi is planted twice a year,
during the main or wet season (harvested between January and April) and
during the off or dry season (harvested between June and October). In the
main season, two types of production are practiced; wet padi refers to a crop
grown in fields where farmers achieve some measure of local water control and
conservation by constructing and operating a system of bunds and outlets,
while dry padi refers to padi planted without water control measures, totally
dependent on direct rainfall or natural ponding. As farmers have long known
that wet padi generally produces higher yields, this method is used wherever
local topography and availability of labor in relation to land permit. Dry
padi is typically planted by tribal groups in the mountainous regions of
Borneo and Peninsular Malaysia, where the historically low man-land ratio
favors this land-intensive activity. As long as enough land is available,
and the associated slash-and-burn migratory pattern of agriculture does not
affect the environment too seriously, dry padi is not an economically



ANNEX 12
Page 2
irrational pattern of production./1 Increasing population reduces the incomes
from this activity, however, and increases the ecological costs. For these
reasons, the Malaysian Government has in recent years increased efforts to
introduce tribal groups in Sarawak and Sabah to settled agriculture, includ-
ing irrigated wet padi cultivation. There are, however, certain selected dry
padi varieties (such as "Kendinga" in Sabah) which are sufficiently short
term to be grown in annual rotation with other crops in a settled agricul-
tural pattern. Padi cultivation in the dry season (double-cropping) is
almost entirely dependent on irrigation and field bunding.
Production
3.        Table 1 presents the distribution of padi production by states and
seasons for 1975, and Table 2 presents the recent history of padi production.
National production statistics indicate certain interrelated trends which may
be summarized as follows.
(a) The major dynamic factor in the increase in padi production has
been the expansion of double-cropping due primarily to the con-
struction of the Muda Irrigation Project in Kedah and Perlis (Loan
434-MA) and the Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA) in Kelantan.
Both these projects were substantially completed in 1973. Between
1968 and 1975 the proportion of total national production produced
during the off season increased from 18% to 35%. The proportion of
total production contributed by the states of Kedah, Perlis, and
Kelantan increased from 43% to 55% over the same period, while
their contribution to off-season production rose from 19% to 65%.
(b) Over the same seven-year period, total annual padi production in
the states of Perak, Johor, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Selangor, and
Penang increased by less than 10%, and total main season production
in Peninsular Malaysia increased by only 9.6% or 1.3% per annum, a
reflection of the fact that production increases have derived
chiefly from increases in cropping intensity and not from increases
in yields. As 80% of the Peninsula's wet padi area is now irrigated
to some extent, but only 57% is double-cropped, further increases
in production can be expected from upgrading of existing controlled
drainage, inundation, and unreliable irrigation facilities to
provide reliable dry-season irrigation. This would also apply to
the Borneo States.
(c) Preliminary figures for the 1976 main season harvest for Peninsular
Malaysia indicate that seasonal production decreased 5% to 620,000
tons of milled rice equivalent from 655,000 tons in 1975. While
average yields were unchanged, area planted diminished from 372,000
ha to 349,000 ha. The most serious shortfalls were in the state of
Perak, where milled rice production decreased by 29,000 tons and
area planted by 16,000 ha. The problem appears to have been late
/1 Clark and Haswell, Economics of Subsistence Agriculture, 4th ed., 1971.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
and insufficient rainfall in areas with unreliable irrigation
facilities, which discouraged large numbers of farmers from planting
their crop. The poor main-season crop was apparently followed by a
very good dry-season crop, due largely to extensive planting of a
very high-yielding new variety in the Muda area and in small
schemes in Kedah and Penang (Annex 1, para. 17).
4.        While improvement in physical irrigation facilities is the sine qua
non for increases in cropped area, both in new areas and in established areas
in the off season, and in addition typically contributes an average of about
1 ton of additional padi yield per ha per season through timely planting and
reduced risks of flooding and moisture stress, optimal use of irrigation
facilities will require improved and integrated agricultural extension,
credit and input supply services. If these services can be supplied in an
effective and timely manner, and can be supplemented by measures to improve
processing and storage of padi at the village level, a further increase in
yield of 0.5 tons of padi per ha per season can be achieved rapidly at
minimal cost in irrigated areas.
Marketing
5.        Consumption of milled rice in Malaysia in 1976 was approximately
1.6 million metric tons, or about 130 kg (286 lb) per capita. This demand
was met by domestic production of approximatly 1.35 million tons, imports
into Peninsular Malysia of about 140,000 tons, and imports into Sabah and
Sarawak of about 110,000 tons. Based on conservative projections of 2.5%
annual increases in population, 4% annual increases in per capita real
income, and an income elasticity of demand for rice of 0.1 over the next
decade, Malaysia's total demand for rice at present real price levels should
increase by about 37% or 580,000 tons of milled rice by 1988. Implementation
of the present project would result in an incremental production of about
147,000 tons of padi (96,000 tons of milled rice) by that time, or 17% of
incremental demand. The remainder of domestic requirements would be supplied
through improved irrigation facilities in large irrigation scheme areas,
including the Lemal area currently being upgraded under the ongoing North
Kelantan Rural Development Project (Loan 1294-MA) and the Muda, Tanjong
Karang, Krian, and Sungei Manek areas currently being prepared for improvement
with Bank assistance; through new land development for padi irrigation /1; and,
if necessary, through increased imports.
6.        National statistics indicate that padi farmers market about 50% of
their crop and utilize the remainder for domestic consumption, seeds, rent,
wages in kind for harvesting and other services such as the hire of buffaloes,
and payment of zakat, an obligatory Moslem religious tax which varies from
state to state and which averages 7% of the total padi crop. This figure
understates the actual proportion of the padi crop which enters the marketing
channels, as much of the padi used for the above purposes is sold for cash
/1 A feasibility study for the development of irrigated padi in the Rompin/
Endau area of Pahang is included in the present project.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
soon after harvest and repurchased for domestic consumption as needed, or is
sold by recipients of rent or wages in kind or by the state and local reli-
gious authorities who receive the zakat payments. Local surveys indicate
that on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia only 10-20% of the harvest is
retained on the farm due in part to lack of efficient storage facilities,
while a greater proportion is retained on the east coast and in the Borneo
States.
7.        Hand-pounding (milling) of padi has largely disappeared in Peninsular
Malaysia, although it is still quite common in Sabah and Sarawak. A recent
development facilitating relatively efficient milling at farm level, particu-
larly in small irrigation scheme areas, is the use of mobile diesel mills
which are towed by tractors from area to area, and which produce rice which
is both used by the farmers themselves or sold to local shops. The great
bulk of the padi is, however, processed in 3,000 small stationary mills and
150 large milling complexes, many of them equipped with drying facilities
and operated by the National Padi and Rice Authority. The major function of
padi marketing is to link the farmers with the mills in an effective manner.
This function is exercised directly by the staff or full-time agents of
large government and private mills; independent operators and shopkeepers
who act as padi brokers and who obtain padi through credit arrangements with
individual farmers; cooperative societies and cooperative banks; and Farmers'
Organizations supported by the Government. All padi buyers are licensed by
the National Padi and Rice Authority, such licensing stipulating that the
purchaser must pay the farmer the current official offer price for padi
under the Guaranteed Minimum Price (GMP) system.
Prices
8.         Under the GMP system the padi offer price in 1974-75 ranged from
M$24/picul /1 (US$160/ton) for short-grained padi to M$27/picul (US$180/ton)
for long-grained varieties. The price range was raised in 1976 to M$27/picul
for short-grained varieties, M$28/picul (US$187/ton) for medium-grained
varieties, and M$30/picul (US$200/ton) for long-grained varieties. These
prices are paid by the licensed padi buyers for good dry padi delivered at
the mill door. Good dry padi is defined as fully matured padi having not
more than 13% moisture content, free of dirt, empty grains, straw or other
foreign matter. For padi exceeding 13% in moisture, price deductions are
made ranging from 2% for padi with 13-15% moisture content to 7% for padi
with 17-18% moisture content. Padi exceeding 18% in moisture content is
typically sold at free market prices slightly below the GMP range.
9.         The official offer price has historically moved with the world
price of rice, while eliminating the short-term fluctuations to which the
world price is susceptible. This in fact is one of the major functions of
the GMP policy and the associated Government rice stockpile operated by the
National Padi and Rice Authority. The other major function is to provide
/1 The picul is a traditional Malay weight, equal to 133-1/3 lb, used
throughout Southeast Asia for trading in rice, tin, and several other
commodities.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Malaysia some security of supply of the country's staple food. The offer
price was below world price levels in 1967-68, exceeded world price levels
in 1969-72, and was well below world price levels in 1973-75 when severe
world rice shortages prevailed. As Table 3 indicates, 1976 saw world prices
again drop slightly below the GMP range given in para. 8, while current
projections show the world price roughly equivalent to the offer price for
equivalent grades in 1977-78 and again exceeding the current levels of the
offer price thereafter. As the GMP system presents farmers with relatively
stable farm-gate prices for padi which usually do not diverge substantially
from world market prices and which permit rather smooth management of the
national rice stockpile, it probably represents both a fair and an efficient
means of regulating farm produce prices within the Malaysian context.
10.       In order to operate the GMP the Government exercises control over
the imports of rice. Importers have to obtain a license to import rice and
such licenses are granted on condition that the importer agrees to purchase
from the Government stockpile a certain given ratio of local rice. This
ratio is regulated in accordance with the quantity of rice the National Padi
and Rice Authority wishes to release from the stockpile. When the Government
selling price of domestic rice is higher than the domestic and world market
prices, importers cover their losses on purchases from the stockpile by
increasing the selling price of their imported rice. When world market
prices exceed domestic prices, rice is sold from the stockpile at the lower
domestic prices to equate supply and demand. Rice is obtained for the
stockpile through purchases from local private and government millers and by
imports.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Padi Production. 1975 /a
Area planted      % of Peninsular       Average yield            Production (tons)            % of Peninsular
(ha)            total area          (ton padi/ha)          Padi        Milled rice       Total Production
Main Season (wet padi) /b
Johor                  3,656                 1.0               2.46                9,008            5,860                0.9
Kedah               118,732                31.9                3.43              406,913          264,660               40.4
Kelantan              70,263                18.9               1.78              125,390           81,550               12.4
Melaka                11,300                 3.0               2.29               25,888           16,840                2.6
Negri Sembilan         7,644                 2.1               2.29               17,510           11,390                1.7
Pahang                19,947                5.3                1.86               37,200           24,200                3.7
Penang                15,385                 4.1               3.25               50,065           32,560                5.0
Perak                48,482                 13.0               2.70              130,828           85,090               13.0
Perlis               26,571                  7.1               3.30               87,780           57,090                8.7
Selangor              20,449                 5.5               3.01               61,495           40,000                6.1
Trengganu             29,923                 7.8               1.87               55,985           36,410                5.5
Subtotal        372,352               100.0                2.74           1,008,062          655,650              100.0
Sarawak               56,525                                   1.66               93,634           60,900
Sabah                 33,282                                   2.89               96,294           62,630
Total           462,159                                    2.59           1.197,990          779,180
Main Season (dry padi) /b
Kedah                  1,664                17.1               1.46                2,438            1,590               18.5
Kelantan               2,704                27.9               1.24                3,340            2,170               25.4
Pahang                 2,474               25.5                1.67                4,135            2,690               31.5
Perak                    826                8.5                1.40                1,160              750                8.8
Perlis                   121                 1.2               1.85                  225              150                1.7
Trengganu              1,919                19.8               0.96                1,848            1,200               14.1
Subtotal          9,708               100.0                1.35               13,146           8,550              100.0
Sarawak               78,058                                   0.65               50,416           32,790
Sabah                 12,896                                   0.68                8,764            5,700
Total           100,662                                    0.72               72,326          47,040
Off Season (wet padi) /c
Johor                  2,089                 1.0               2.69                5,632            3,660                0.9
Kedah                91,854                 43.1               3.56              327,283          212,870               49.0
Kelantan              27,328                12.8               2.64               71,998           46,830               10.8
Melaka                 2,684                 1.2               2.22                5,962            3,880                0.9
Negri Sembilan         6,846                 3.2               2.49               17,020           11,070                2.5
Pahang                 1,729                 0.8               2.15                3,710            2,410                0.5
Penang                16,186                 7.6               2.85               47,855           31,130                7.2
Perak                 24,433                11.4               2.70               66,043           42,950                9.9
Perlis                13,360                 6.3               3.21               42,900           27,900                6.4
Selangor              20,081                 9.5               3.45               69,283           45,060               10.4
Trengganu              6,729                 3.1                1.52              10,230            6,650                1.5
Subtotal        213,319               100.1                3.16              667,916         434,410              100.0
Sarawak                                                                                                                  _
Sabah                    3,853                                    2.76               10,640           6,920
Total           217,172                                    3.12              678,556         441,330
Grand Total                                                                      1,948,872        1,267,550
/a Source: Statistics provided by Economics and Statistics Branch, Ministry of Agriculture.
/b Main-season crop harvested January - April 1975. No dry padi reported planted in Johor, Melaka, Negri Sembilan,
Penang and Selangor.
/c Off-season crop harvested June - October 1975.



-.       ANNEX 12
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SKALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Padi Production. 1968-75 la
Main-season      Main-season       Off-season          Total            2 of             X of
wet padi         dry padi         wet padi            padi      wet padi area   wet padi area
(tons)           (tons)           (tons)            (tons)       irrigated       double-cropped
1968
Peninsular Malaysia              919,629            24,277        255,226        1,199,132                              24
Sarawak                           62,623            49,231               -         111,854
Sabah                             77,905             9,087          3,244           90,236
Total                        1,060,157            82.595        258,470        1.401.222
1969
Peninsular Malaysia             1,010,526           26,522        286,484        1,323,532            40                25
Sarawak                            78,705           59,317               -         138,022
Sabah                              76,522            8,518          6,089           91,129
Total                         1,165,753           94,357        292,573        1,552.683
1970
Peninsular Malaysia             1,001,624           27,491        377,012        1,406,127            41                35
Sarawak                            71,417           61,485               -         132,902             -                 -
Sabah                              82,410            8,718          4,490           95,618            44                 6
Total                         1,155,451           97,694        381,502        1,634,647            36                29
1971
Peninsular Malaysia               998,088           24,969        498,352        1,521,409            47                43
Sarawak                            88,176           54,243               -         142,419             1                 -
Sabah                              92,742            8,349           7,026         108,117            44                 8
Total                         1,179.006           87,561        505,378        1,771,945            41                35
1972
Peninsular Malaysia               919,229           17,574        603,671        1,540,474            77                55
Sarawak                            91,543           55,473               -         147,016             2                 _
Sabah                             100,476            8,272         11,224          119,972            46                12
Total                         1,111,248           81,319        614,895        1,807,462            65               44
1973
Peninsular Malaysia             1,018,583           13,499        667,924        1,700,006            77                58
Sarawak                            77,552           39,975               -         117,527             2                 -
Sabah                              82,210            7,857         14,376          104,443            45                17
Total                         1,178,345           61,331        682,300        1,921,976            67               48
1974
Peninsular Malaysia             1,074,102           12,100        703,240        1,789,442            79                59
Sarawak                            93,419           45,295               -         138,714             2                 -
Sabah                              94,956            9,948         10,916          115,820            46                11
Total                         1,262,477           67,343        714,156       2,043,976            68                49
1975
Peninsular Malaysia             1,008,866           13,146        667,908        1,689,920            80               57
Sarawak                            93,634           50,415               -         144,049             1                -
Sabah                              96,294            8,764         10,640          115,698            61               12
Total                        1,198,794           72,325        678,548       1.949,667            69                47
/a  Source:  Statistics provided by Economics and Statistics Branch, Ministry of Agriculture; DID; and Sabah and
Sarawak DOA.  Total figures for 1975 diverge slightly from those presented in Table 1 due to metric conversions
and rounding.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
World Rice Price Projections and Derived Shadow
Prices of Malaysian Rice (1977 $/ton)
Year                                        1976 /a        1977       1978       1979       1980       1985
f.o.b. Bangkok, US$ /b                       254            300        320        353        390        390
X(.9) (grade differential)                   229            270        288        318        351        351
X(2.52), M$ conversion                       576            680        726        801        885        885
+ Shipping and handling                       50             50         50         50         50          50
Price of rice, M$/ton                        626            730        776        851        935        935
Padi equivalent price, M$/ton
X(.65) (milling rate) =                      407            475        504        553        607        607
- other milling and
distribution costs                         -26           -26        -26         -26        -26        -26
Farm-gate padi price, M$/ton                 381            449        478        527        581        581
(14$/pikul)                                   22.7          26.7        28.5       31.4       34.6       34.6
/a  1976 prices are actual prices in 1976 currency values.  Projections for all other years are                        H
given in terms of constant 1977 currency values.                                                                   a 
/b  Thai rice, 5% brokens.  No standard price projections are made for the 15% brokens grade, which
is probably closer in quality to the mix of rices produced in Malaysia.  Thus, price projections
for the 5% brokens export grade are reduced by 10% below, maintaining the price ratio between
these two grades which has prevailed in recent years.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Sample Schemes
1.        Three representative proposed small schemes were evaluated in
detail on the basis of preliminary designs and cost estimates prepared by
DID, socioeconomic field surveys and agro-economic analyses executed by the
Economics and Statistics Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 6.06),
and field visits by the appraisal mission. The Kota II scheme (Kedah
Scheme No. 1), a relatively large (1,450 ha) pumping scheme in the Muda
River delta, would yield a rate of return of 23%. The Kerandang Timur
scheme (Trengganu Scheme No. 4), a medium-sized (400 ha) gravity scheme
which would utilize the natural flow of the Kerandang River and the return
drainage flows of the large Besut Irrigation Scheme, would yield a rate of
return of 17%. The Bendang Behrang scheme (Perak Scheme No. 7), was selected
as a representative of the low end of the range of scheme sizes (60 ha).
This scheme would involve the diversion of a perennial small stream to
permit the irrigation by gravity of newly cleared padi land, and would yield
a rate of return of 26%. No schemes would be accepted for inclusion in the
project unless a thorough technical and economic evaluation indicates an
expected rate of return of 10% or greater, except that schemes with an
estimated rate of return between 8% and 10% would be eligible for reimburse-
ment upon submission to the Bank of evidence that a predominant proportion
of scheme area farmers receive incomes below the national poverty line and
that alternative sources of employment do not exist in the area concerned.
2.        In carrying out the economic analyses, the efficiency price of
rice was derived from the Bank's world market price projections (Annex 12).
Input prices used reflect the elimination of all known tariffs and subsidies.
All farm labor was valued at a shadow wage rate of M$2.50/day (US$1.00/day).
An exchange rate of M$2.52 to US$1.00, equivalent to the freely fluctuating
market value of the Malaysian currency from August 1976 to January 1977, was
used to equate domestic and international values. This value is considered
to represent a relatively undistorted rate and was adopted for the purposes
of economic analysis.
3.        Tables 1-6 present the detailed economic analysis for the three
schemes, Tables 7-9 present farm models for 1 ha padi farms in each of the
scheme areas, and Table 10 presents the derivation of rent and cost recovery
indices.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
KERANDANG TIMUR SUBPROJECT
Economic Analysis - Basic Data
Gross value                              Net value
Year      Padi yields    Cropped area    Padi production    of production    Production cost    of production
(ton/ha)          (ha)  _            (ton)   -          (M$'000)_           (M$ 000) _          (M$ 000)_
w      w        w         w        w           w       w          w       w            w       w          w
Main Season          1    1.60   1.60    320         320       512        512    230         230    145           145      85         85
2    1.65   1.61    320         320       528        515    252         246    150           145    102         101
3    1.74   1.62    380         320       661        518    348         273    181           146    167         127
4    1.92   1.63    400         320       768        522    446         303    201           146    245         157
5    2.16   1.64    400         320       864        525    502         305    212           147    290         158
6    2.40   1.65    400         320       960        528    558         307    223           147    335         160
7    2.58   1.66    400         320    1,032         531    600         309    231           147    369         162
8    2.68   1.67    400         320    1,072         534    623         310    237           147    386         163
9    2.75   1.68    400         320    1,100         538    639         313    240           148    399         165
10-25    2.80   1.69    400         320    1,120         541    651         314    240            148    411         166
Off Season           1        -      -       -         -         -          -       -          -       -             -      -
2                         -                            _       _          _       _            _ -_    
3    2.00       -    150          -       300          -    158           -      68            -      90
4    2.07       -    180          -       373          -    217           -      82            -    135
5    2.28       -    200          -       456          -    265           -      96            -    169
6    2.63       -    200          -       526          -    306           -    105             -    201
7    2.98       -    200          -       596          -    346           -    113             -    233
8    3.19       -    200          -       638          -    371           -    117             -    254
9    3.33       -    200          -       666          -    387           -    121             -    266
10-25    3.40       -    200          -       680           -    395_          -    122             -    273
W - With Proje ct.                                                                                                                          X
W = Without Project.



ANNEX 13
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
KERANDANG TIMUR SUBPROJECT
Economic Analysis - Incremental Values
(M$'000)
Year       Incremental net value       Construction       Incremental      Incremental
of production               costs            O&M costs       net benefits
I 1   ,0                              100                 0               (100)
2                1                     500                 0               (499)
3              130                     700                 0               (570)
4              257                     550                40               (333)
5              301                      50                40                211
6              376                       -                40                336
7              440                       -                40                400
8              477                       -                40                437
9              500                       -                40                460
10-25              518                       -                40                 478
Economic Rate of Return = 17%



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
KOTA II SUBPROJECT
Economic Analysis - Basic Data
Gross value                             Net value
Year     Padi yields    Cropped area    Padi production    of production    Production cost    of production
(ton/ha)          (ha)                (ton)             (M$'000)           (M$'000) _          (M$'000)
W  w        w        w             w          w         w       w        w            w        w        w
Main Season         1    2.70   2.70    1,450  1,450    3,920          3,920    1,760   1,760    509             509    1,251   1,251
2    2.74   2.72    1,450  1,450    3,970         3,940    1,898   1,883    522             511    1,376   1,372
3    2.83   2.74    1,450  1,450    4,100         3,970    2,161   2,092    552             513    1,609   1,579
4    3.00   2.76    1,450  1,450    4,350         4,000    2,527   2,324    608             514    1,919   1,810
5    3.22   2.78    1,450  1,450    4,670         4,030    2,713   2,341    680             516    2,033   1,825
6    3.44   2.80    1,450  1,450    4,990         4,060    2,899   2,359    752             518    2,147   1,841
7    3.60   2.82    1,450  1,450    5,220         4,090    3,033   2,376    804             520    2,229   1,856
8    3.68   2.84    1,450  1,450    5,340         4,120    3,103   2,394    831             521    2,272   1,873
9    3.74   2.86    1,450  1,450    5,420         4,150    3,149   2,411    850             523    2,299   1,888
10-25    3.80   2.88    1,450  1,450    5,510         4,180    3,201   2,429    870             525    2,331   1,904
Off Season          1        -       -      -         -         -          -         -        -       -            -         -        -
2               -       -         _        _          _         _        _       -             -        _        _
3    3.00       -       500       -    1,500           -      791        -    245             -       546        -
4    3.05       -       750       -    2,290           -    1,330        -    374             -       956        -
5    3.20       -       900       -    2,880           -    1,673        -    468             -    1,205         -
6    3.45       -       900       -    3,110           -    1,807        -    501             -    1,301         -
7    3.70       -       900       -    3,330           -    1,935        -    534             -    1,401         -
8    3.85       -       900       -    3,470           -    2,016        -    554              -    1,462        -
9    3.95       -       900       -    3,560           -    2,068        -    567              -    1,501        -
10-25    4.00       -       900       -    3,600           -    2,092         -    573             -    1,519        -
_
W - With ProJect.
W - Without Project.                                         



ANNEX 13
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
KOTA II SUBPROJECT
Economic Analysis - Incremental Values
(M$ 000)
Year       Incremental net value       Construction       Incremental      Incremental
of production               costs           O&M costs        net benefits
1                 0                   1,000               0               (1,000)
2                 0                   2,500                0              (2,500)
3               576                   2,000                0              (1,424)
4             1,065                       0             152                  913
5             1,413                       0             152                1,261
6             1,607                       0              152               1,455
7             1,774                       0             152                1,622
8             1,861                       0              152               1,709
9             1,912                       0              152               1,760
10-25             1,946                       0              152               1,794
Economic Rate of Return = 23%



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
BENDANG BEHRANG SUBPROJECT
Economic Analysis - Basic Data
Gross value                              Net value
Year      Padi yields    Cropped area    Padi production    of production    Production cost    of production
(ton/ha)           (ha)   _           (ton)  -           (M$'000) _          (M$ 000)  _          (M$'000) _
W  w        w         w         w        w         w          w            w              w      w           w
Main Season          1    2.00   2.00        8          8      16.0       16.0       7           7     3              3      4           4
2    2.04   2.02       8          8      16.3        16.2       8          8      3              3     5            5
3    2.12   2.04    30            8      53.6       16.3       34          9    12               3    22            6
4    2.27   2.06    50            8    113.5         16.5      66         10    21               3    45            7
5    2.47   2.08    60            8    148.2         16.6      86         10    27               3    59            7
6    2.67   2.10    60             8    160.2        16.8      93         10    29               3    64            7
7    2.82   2.12    60            8    169.2        17.0       98         10    31               3    67            7
8    2.90   2.14    60            8    174.0         17.1    101          10    31               3    70            7
9    2.96   2.16    60            8    177.6         17.3     103         10    32               3    71            7
10-25    3.00   2.18    60             8    180.0        17.4     105          10    33              3    72            7
Off Season           1        -       -      -          -         -          -       -           -     -              -      -
2                    -              -                           _          _      _              _     _      
3    2.00       -    30           -      60.0           -      32          -    13               -    19
4    2.05       -    40            -     82.0           -      48          -    18               -    30
5    2.20       -    50            -    110.0           -      64          -    23               -    41
6    2.45       -    60            -    147.0           -      85          -    30               -    55
7    2.70       -    60           -    162.0            -      94          -    32               -    62
8    2.85       -    60            -    171.0           -      99          -    33               -    66
9    2.95       -    60            -    177.0           -    103           -    33               -    70
10-25    3.00        -    60           -    180.0           -    105            -    34              -    71
H
W - With Project                                  -                                                                                           X 
W - Without Project.



ANNEX 13
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
BENDANG BEHRANG SUBPROJECT
Economic Analysis - Incremental Values
(M$'000)
Year   Incremental net value  Land clearing  Construction  Incremental  Incremental
of production             costs          costs        O&M costs   net benefits
1             0                   10             50              0            (60)
2             0                   34             170             0           (204)
3            35                    0               0            10             25
4            68                    0               0            10             58
5            93                    0               0            10             83
6          112                     0               0            10            102
7          122                     0              0             10            112
8           129                    0               0            10            119
9           134                    0               0            10            124
10-25           136                     0              0            10            126
Economic Rate of Return = 26%



ANNEX 13
Table 7
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
KERANDANG TIMUR SUBPROJECT
Model - 1 ha Padi Farm
Without project /a         With project /a
Cropping intensity, %                           100                         150
Main-season yield, ton/ha                      1.69                         2.8
Off-season yield, ton/ha                          -                        3.4
Production, tons                               1.69                        4.5
Value, M$457/ton                                457                        457
Gross value, M$                               772.3                    2,056.5
Cash Inputs, M$
Land preparation                             68.0                      124.5
Seed                                         12.4                       21.0
Fertilizer, agrochemical                      8.0                      205.3
Rent /b                                     169.0                      450.0
Hired labor                                  28.0                      182.0
285.4                      982.8
Net income from padi                        487.0                    1,073.7
Other income /c                             370.0                      370.0
Total income                           857.0                    1,443.7
Interest on credit /d                           -                       11.3
Water charges                                    -                       9.9
Quit rent                                     5.0                        5.0
Zakat payments                               34.0                       90.0
39.0                     116.2
Disposable income, M$                       817.9                    1,327.5
Unpaid family labor-days                    143.6                      185.5
Income per family labor-day, M$               5.7                        7.2
/a Conditions prevailing in year 10.
/b 50% of land owned and 50% sharecropped.
/c As adequate surplus family labor is available for padi, other income is
assumed to remain constant.
/d Credit taken for 50% of cash inputs (excluding rent) for six months at
8.5% p.a.



ANNEX 13
Table 8
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
KOTA II SUBPROJECT
Model - 1 ha Padi Farm
Without project /a        With project /a
Cropping intensity, %                           100                        160
Main-season yield, ton/ha                       2.8                        3.8
Off-season yield, ton/ha                          -                        4.0
Production, tons                                2.8                        6.2
Value, M$457/ton                                457                        457
Gross value, M$                             1,279.6                   2,833.4
Cash Inputs, M$
Land preparation                                -                     172.8
Seed                                         12.4                      20.8
Fertilizer, agrochemical                     34.7                     221.3
Rent /b                                     118.7                      189.9
Hired labor                                 172.5                     397.5
338.3                   1,002.3
Net income from padi                        941.3                    1,831.1
Other income /c                           1,000.0                     852.0
Total income                        1,941.3                    2,683.1
Interest on credit /d                           -                       17.3
Water charges                                   -                       15.0
Quit rent                                     5.0                        5.0
Zakat payments                               78.4                     173.6
83.4                     210.9
Disposable income, M$                     1,857.9                   2,472.2
Unpaid family labor-days                     91.6                      146.7
Income per family labor-day, M$              20.3                       16.9
/a Conditions at year 10.
/b It is assumed that one third of paddy land is rented.
/c Reduction in other income equivalent to 59 days at M$2.50/day diverted to
off-season rice production.
/d Credit taken for 50% of cash input at 8.5% annual rate for six months.



ANNEX 13
Table 9
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
BENDANG BEHRANG SUBPROJECT
Model - 1 ha Padi Farm
Without project /a         With project /a
Cropping intensity, %                           100                       200
Main-season yield, ton/ha                      2.18                      3.00
Off-season yield, ton/ha                          -                      3.00
Production, tons                               2.18                      6.00
Price, M$                                       457                       457
Gross value, M$                                 996                     2,742
Cash Inputs, M$
Land preparation                            110.0                     220.0
Seed                                         12.4                      28.0
Fertilizer, agrochemical                     16.4                     250.8
Hired labor                                  30.0                     250.0
168.8                    748.8
Net income from padi                        827.2                   1,993.2
Other income /b                             500.0                     405.0
1,327.2                  2,398.2
Interest on credit /c                           -                      31.8
Water charges                                   -                       9.9
Quit rent                                     5.0                       5.0
Zakat payments                               70.0                     191.9
75.0                    238.6
Disposable income, M$                     1,252.2                   2,159.6
Unpaid family labor-days                       85                       191
Income per family labor-day, M$              14.7                      11.3
/a Conditions at year 10.
/b Reduction due to 38 days at M$2.50/day diverted to off-season rice
production.
/d Credit taken for 50% of cash input at 8.5% annual rate for six months.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Rent and Cost Recovery
(1)                (2)               (3)                      (4)                (5)           (6)                 (7)                 (8)             (9)
Incremental net   Incremental family  Management and uncer-  Project  Incremental Zakat    Incremental              Rent recovery  Cost recovery
1 ha model farm  Family income /a    labor cost /b          tainty allowance /c   rent /d        payments /a       water charges /a       index /e       index /f
- ---------------------------------------------- 1977 M$ -- - ---------------------- - - ------ - - ---- - -              (X)              (X
Kerandang Timur          587                 210                     147               230             56                 10                 28              12
Kota II                  742                 275                     186               281             95                 15                 39              20
Bendang Behrang        1,071                 530                     268               273            122                 10                 48              25
/a  From Tables 7-9.
/b  Valued at an estimated market wage of M$5/day.
/c  Valued at 25% of incremental income (2).
/d  Equals Col. (2) - Cbl. (3) - Col. (4).
le  Equals Cal. (6) + Col. (7) divided by Col. (5).  It is assumed that incremental farm incomes, project rent and benefit charges would build up to full
development levels with similar time streams so that ratios at full development would equal the ratios of discounted present values.
/f  Equals Col. (6) + Col. (7) divided by incremental O&M costs and capital costs in Tables 2, 4 and 6, amortized over 25 years at 10% interest.
0 



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis
1.        A summary economic analysis of the 195 small irrigation schemes
proposed for implementation under the project has been performed in order to
assess, within the limits of available knowledge, the economic viability of
the overall project. Some of the aggregate data used in the calculations are
presented in Table 1, while Table 2 presents the various aggregate benefit
and cost streams and the determination of the rate of return. The total
incremental padi production at full development (147,200 tons in 1988) was
derived from the estimates for each individual scheme given in Annex 4,
Tables 1-13, which in turn were based on estimates by the various State
Directors of DID. The phasing of the buildup in aggregate production, as
well as aggregate incremental production costs, were estimated from the
detailed analysis of the Kota II (Kedah No. 1), Kerandang Timur (Trengganu
No. 7), and Bendang Behrang (Perak No. 8) schemes (Annex 13). Incremental
padi production was valued at the economic prices derived in Annex 12,
Table 3. Investment cost estimates were aggregated from the Annex 4 tables
by year, while aggregate incremental operation and maintenance costs were
estimated on the basis of an average increase in such costs of M$50 per
irrigated ha.
2.        The estimated economic rate of return derived from these calcula-
tions is 23%. While the procedure followed in determining this rate of
return would be rather unreliable for any individual scheme, the fact that
both the aggregate construction cost estimates and the components of the
aggregate incremental production estimates (present and potential padi areas,
cropping intensities, and yields) were based on estimates for each individual
scheme by experienced engineers familiar with each scheme area and its prob-
lems lends considerable credence to this estimate as a reasonable measure of
the overall economic viability of the project.
3.        A simple test was performed to determine the sensitivity of the
aggregate project economic rate of return to changes in real construction
costs, holding benefits and incremental production and O&M costs constant
(Table 3). The rate of return is relatively insensitive to increases in
such costs, approaching 19% even in the case of a 35% increase in base
construction costs. Experience in Malaysia indicates that the likelihood
of larger aggregate cost increases over engineering estimates is extremely
small.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimates of Potential Increases in Irrigated Padi Area and Padi Production on Small Schemes
Present   Potential   Incremental    S of              Farm
Existing  Additional  Total            Cropped area           Cropping        padi        padi          padi        present       families    No. of
State                 area          area    area    Present  Future  Increase  intensity  production  production   production  production  benefiting  projects
ha           ha       ha         ha       ha       ha           X          tons         tons          tons
East Coast
Kelantan            5,603          283      5,886   5,600    7,200   1,600           122         6,920        17,780         10,860         5          6,227          12
Trengganu           6,440        3,270      9,710  10,148   16,250   6,102           167        19,020        38,620         19,600        30          9,806          14
Pahang              2,621        2,150      4,771   2,621    8,057   5,436           168         4,610        20,900         16,290        35          4,450          25
Subtotal    14,664         5,703    20,367  18,369   31,507  13,138            155        30,550         77.300        46.750        23         20,483          51
West Coast
Perlis                875          121        996      875       996      121        100         1,780         3,140          1,360         2          2,340           7
Muda Fringe         2,104            -      2,104   2,104    3,998   1,894           190         5,200         14,820         9,620        )3          2,280          12
Kedah              4,566           765      5,331   4,566    8,886   4,320           167        10,740        25,850         15,110                    7,140          23
Perak              2,095           304      2,399   2,095    4,556   2,461           190         3,7BO        12,220          8,440         4          3,391          12
Selangor            1,012            -      1,012   1,012    1,922        910        190         1,875         6,530          4,655         4            850           1
Negari Sembilan   5,310            240      5,550   5,310    9,440   4,130           170        12,270        28,720         16,450        47          9,100          48
Melaka              1,312            -      1,312   1,312    1,706        394        130         2,790          5,270         2,480         8           2,162          9
Johore                283            -        283      283       283        -        100           438            788           350         2            383           2
Subtotal    17,557        1,430      18,987  17,557   31,787  14,230           167        38,873         97,338        58,465          5         27,646        114
Peninsular Total   32,221         7,133      39,354  35,926   63.294  27,368           161        69,423       174,638        105,215         6         48,129         165
East Malaysia
Sabah               4,128       2,331       6,459   4,128   11,544   7,416           178         8,910         32,000        23,090        20          6,642           7
Saravak             3,873       3,381       7,254   3,873    9,389   5,516           129         6,860         25,750        18,890        12          7,250          33
Subtotal      8,001       5,712      13,713   8,001   20,933  12,932           153         15,770        57,750        41,980         15         13,892          30
Total Malaysia      40.222       12,845      53,067  43,927   84,227  40,300           158        85,193        232,288       147,195          7        62.021         195
Source:  Based on DID statistics.                                                                                                                                             I *
IW x'



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis
(1)                   (2)                         (3)                   (4)             (5)                (6)
Year  Incremental padi  Incremental gross value  Incremental production    Construction    Incremental              Net benefit
production           of production                  costs                   costs         O&M costs           stream
(tons)             (M$ millions)             (M$ millions)            (M$ millions)  (M$ millions)  (M$ millions) /a
1977                                                                                    7.76                              -7.76
1978              -                   -                          -                     30.93           0.02              -30.95
1979         1,800                   0.95                       0.26                   48.32           0.17              -47.80
1980        16,600                   9.64                       2.44                   37.22           1.18              -31.20
1981        38,700                  22.48                       5.68                   22.57           2.01               -7.78
1982        67,600                  39.28                       9.92                    4.61           2.27               22.48
1983        87,600                  50.90                      12.86                     -             2.52               35.52
1984       107,500                  62.46                      15.78                     -             2.72               43.96
1985       123,400                  71.70                      18.10                     -             2.72               50.88
1986       136,400                  79.25                      20.00                     -             2.72               56.53
1987       143,400                  83.32                      21.04                     -             2.72               59.56
1988       147,200                  85.52                      21.60                     -             2.72               61.20
1989-
2004        147,200                 85.52                      21.60                     -              2.72              61.20
/a  Column (2) - (Columns 3-5).
Economic Rate of Return = 23%.
a, 
I-.
i b



ANNEX 14
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Effects of Changes in Construction Costs on Rate of Return
Economic Rate
Costs                                                               of Return
Expected Value                                                         23.5%
Costs increased by:
5%                                                               22.7%
10%                                                               21.9%
30%                                                               19.3%
35%                                                               18.8%
Costs decreased by:
5%                                                               24.3%
10%                                                               25.3%
30%                                                               30.1%
35%                                                               31.6%



IRDO 12694
3.                       4-    ~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1077
-           1QI~~~lo                           102~                                 lo3                                 1O4
*                                NATIONAL    ~~MALAYSIA
~~~A.                                                               NAT~~~~~~Pd goIngNArea  SMAALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Pad grwin  arasand location of proposed subprojects in peninsular molaysia
PADI GROWING AREAS
T vHA IL AND
6 SUBPROJECTS
A,   RAIN GAUGE STATIONS
-                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERAL ROADS
N                          _______ ~~~~~~~OTHER PRINCIPAL ROADS
.-Turnpot                      ~~~~~RAILWAYS
*   222                                / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kt,BouSTATE BOUNDARIES
Mergong                                           ..UpO219                    -*  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2   K5~~~~~~~~~~~ AT-')~ ~ ~~~~~    cmo
Sungei Potag                                                             0    ~~~~~~20    40    69   80    100
BurnoRng Lrn             K-10K
George-<A
oic~~~~~~~~~~~~o Kureu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       Tengn
'SrI   002222~~~~~~~~
Ku58e1 Dung
ChChin
K,ualo L-* ,,aos                             Pkal
~~  Tanjong ~~~~~~~9rOE9                  TelyrloE                                              s   e  a~~~nge Bain
-  Kook SRIoogor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erntt                                                                                        -
nson~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
.1~~~~~~iirPr5                                                                                                                                    
- 78w bowrdarw, ,h,w,i or oPt ,nup do nor~~~~~~
5mpH' edorsrnrnr r,raocgptrce U,- ho  P r
11822tP22214 ood rio ~~~~~~~~~~y1i!i2te~~~~~  Dickson   *   Gem S    2 OmOT     ~       ~      ~      C           n 
~~~~~!    (    .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mn                                                     a
EU~~~~~   ~~   I~~~AI0SGIMA ~ ~   ~       7 
ow.~~~~~~~onogKra,ro
//                          .    INDONES1A-Kuala SeNong 
-- o~mSNGAPOE  ~                                                     ~i   SNGAPOR
~~ 0   N ~~~~~~ ~~-~ ~~Prt L4MSANTK4NnB.
H .W'D,  5N S   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






-4'--
>~~~~~
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1
)                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
->N-1ff:;~~~~~~~~~~c
N                 ~~~~~~~~~
~~                                          /  6        A~~~~~V
cc  -<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- 



