CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1444 MA
Loan Agreement
(National Small-Scale Irrigation Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 3, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 1977, between MALAYSIA (herein-
after called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC-
TION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DID" means the Borrower's Drainage and Irrigation
Department; and
(b) "M$" means Malaysian dollars, the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-nine million dollars ($39,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its DID with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in order to assist the
Borrower in upgrading and documentation of procedures for
engineering design and planning, operation, maintenance and
monitoring of the irrigation schemes included in the Project,
employ advisors whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, in order to assist the
Borrower in managing and coordinating the implementation of the
Project employ, in consultation with the Bank, a suitably
qualified and experienced project coordinator in the federal
headquarters of DID.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank. shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion, provided
that the equipment referred to in Part B of the Project may be
used for the maintenance ot any small irrigation schemes of the
Borrower.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives


﻿- 7 -
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall. furnish to the
Bank, upon request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, during the implementation
of the ProjecL, assign from the relevant units of its Ministry of
Agriculture an economist, a soil scientist and an agronomist
to its Preparation and Evaluation Team, established to execute
sub-project preparation related to the Project and evaluation
procedures for schemes included in the Project and to monitor the
agricultural and socio-economic effects of completed schemes
included in the Project. Such Preparation and Evaluation Team
shall be maintained during the implementation of the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall (i) in respect of each
irrigation scheme to be included in the Project estimated to cost
more than M$3,000,000, submit to the Bank a full evaluation
report, and (ii) in respect of every other irrigation scheme to be
included in the Project, submit to the Bank summary data forms,
and shall obtain the Bank's approval of each scheme prior to
commencement of its construction.
(b) The Borrower shall include in all evaluation reports and
summary data forms referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
information on land tenure conditions.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall not later than
December 31, 1979 or such other date as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, cause to be prepared and furnished to the
Bank to enable the Bank to make comments for the Borrower's
consideration, proposalf regarding possible amendments to and
effective enforcement of the Borrower's Padi Cultivators (Control
of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act 1967, and a plan for the
implementation of such proposals.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that its relevant constituent
states do not reduce without its concurrence the extent of land
gazetted for the purpose of the irrigation schemes included in
the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, (a) not later than
August 31, 1977 or such other date as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, establish an Agricultural Services
Coordinating Committee, consisting of at least the Director
General of DID, the Borrower's coordinator for the Project,
representatives from the Borrower's Department of Agriculture
including representatives from soil, crop and extension branches,
a representative from the Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute, a representative of the Farmers
Organization Authority and representatives of the Borrower's
central agencies, as required, and chaired by the Secretary
General of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, in order to
ensure that technical support is provided for the Preparation and
Evaluation Team referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, and
(b) ensure that necessary agricultural support services are made
available for completed schemes included in the Project.


﻿-10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, thc Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan b, an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maLuring not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause DID to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DID to: (i) have the accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenqes and related statements) relating to the Project for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as


﻿- 12 -
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements relating to the Project and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall finance, as and when needed,
through its normal procedures, the operation and maintenance of
completed irrigation schemes included in the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall make the necessary
arrangements to finance the staff to be provided by its
constituent states as required for the purpose of operating and
maintaining completed schemes included in the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that its constituent
states in Peninsular Malaysia continue to collect from farmers
charges for operation, maintenance and recovery of capital costs
of facilities constructed under the Project, said charges
to be maintained at an appropriate level after taking into account
the incentives to farmers, the capacity of farmers to pay and the
other charges and taxes paid by farmers. The Borrower shall
exchange views with the Bank from time to time on the level of
said charges.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Project coordinator referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement has been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date December 1, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower or such other person or persons as such
Minister of Finance shall appoint in writing are designated as
represent.tives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:
TREASURY
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Zain Azraai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 29,000,000        46%
(2) Equipment and                6,600,000
vehicles
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b)  imported but pro-                       90%
cured locally
(c) manufactured                             100% of local
locally                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Overseas training,
technical assistance
and feasibility study       1,400,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                  2,000,000
TOTAL       39,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures *in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to bi consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement., by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to improve the productivity and
incomes of over 60,000 padi smallholders throughout the
territories of the Borrower and consists of:
A.   Construction or rehabilitation of approximately 195 small
irrigation schemes, ranging in size between 50 and 2,000
hectares of net irrigable padi land.
B.   Provision of equipment needed to maintain the completed
schemes referred to in Part A.
C.   Provision of training for DID staft and technical assistance
for DID.
D.   Carrying out of a feasibility study of the proposed
Rompin/Endau irrigation and land settlement project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1981
through   March 1, 1994                      1,445,000
On September 1, 1994                              1,430,000


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B, contracts for the purchase of
goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with local orocedures of the Borrower satisfactory to the
Bank.
2,   Goods estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$20,000 Fa.h and not exceeding in the aggregate an amount
equivalent Lj $500,000 shall be procured in accordance with the
normal procedures of the Borrower.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in


﻿- 23 -
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured
in Malaysia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
Malaysia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 24 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Malaysia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is thf lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 25 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this


﻿- 26 -
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to the contracts for civil works for the initial
irrigaion scheme to be implemented under the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account


﻿- 27 -
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with accepted principles of evaluation,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraphs
1 and 2, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


