OFFICLAL
The World Bank                                  SCN Quadra 2 Lote    UMENTS       I 55 (61) 3329-1000
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Ed. Corporate Finan ial Center 70 Andar  fax 55 (61) 3329-1010
70712-900 - Brasilia - DF, BRASIL
June 25, 2013
His Excellency
Mr. Simao Robinson Oliveira Jatene
Governor
Office of the Governor of the State of Pard
Rodovia Augusto Montenegro, Km 9, Paldcio dos Despachos
66823-010 Bel6m, Pard
Brazil
Excellency,
Re: Pard Integrated Rural Development Project - Loan No. 7414-BR
First Amendment of the Loan Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") entered into between the State
of ParA (the "Borrower") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
"Bank"), and the Guarantee Agreement entered into between the Federative Republic of Brazil
(the "Guarantor") and the Bank, dated November 7, 2007, all for the above-captioned Project (the
"Project"). Please note that capitalized terms used in this letter (the "Amendment Letter") not
defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement.
We also refer to the letter from the Borrower dated April 11, 2013 and COFIEX letter of
Recommendation No.10/0236 dated May 8, 2013, wherein a request is made to (i) amend the
Loan Agreement in order to modify the scope of the Project development objective, modify the
Project activities and modify the Project institutional arrangements; and (ii) cancel twenty two
million two hundred seventy five thousand five hundred fifty eight United States dollars (US$
22,275,558) from the above mentioned Loan.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank acknowledges your partial cancellation
request as of April 12, 2013, pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 (Cancellation by the
Borrower) of the General Conditions, and agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.     Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"3.01 The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall:
(a)    through the PMU: (i) cause Producer Associations to carry out Part 1 of
the Project, with the participation of BANPARA as a financial agent for the
purposes of financing the implementation of Part 1.B of the Project; and (ii)
carry out Parts 3 and 4 of the Project, with the assistance of SEPOF with respect
to Part 3 of the Project;
(b)    through SEMA, carry out Part 2.A of the Project; and
FILED IN WNBDOCS]


﻿(c)    cause ITERPA to carry out Part 2.B of the Project, with the assistance of
EMATER, and, whenever necessary, other specialized entities, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions."
2.     Section 5.02 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"5.02. The Borrower's Address is:
Gabinete do Governador do Estado do Pard
Rodovia Augusto Montenegro, Km 9, PalAcio dos Despachos
66823-010 Bel6m, Pard
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-91) 3248-1575
With copy to:
Secretaria Especial de Estado de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Incentivo A Produqdo
Av. Nazar6, 871, 3'andar
66040-145 Bel6m, Pard
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-91) 3201-3683
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Minist6rio do Planejamento
Orgamento e Gestio
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
70040-906 Brasilia, Distrito Federal
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022
3.     Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety
as set forth in Annex A to this Amendment Letter.
4.     Section I.A.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"2.    (a)    For purposes of the carrying out of Part 1.B of the Project, the Borrower
shall: (i) transfer a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to BANPARA under a subsidiary
agreement,(the BANPARA Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
BANPARA, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting forth their
respective roles and responsibilities regarding the implementation of such Part of the
Project and establishing that BANPARA shall serve as the financial agent of the
Borrower for the purposes of financing the carrying out of Income Generation
Subprojects,  Environmental  Rehabilitation  Subprojects,  and  Complementary
Infrastructure Subprojects; and (ii) after having approved a PIP, cause BANPARA to
enter into an agreement (the PIP Agreement) with the relevant Producer Association
providing for a loan and/or grant, as the case may be, to such Producer Association to
finance the carrying out of the Income Generation Subprojects, Environmental
Rehabilitation Subprojects, and Complementary Infrastructure Subprojects included in
-2-


﻿such PIP, such PIP Agreement to be based in the model agreement set forth in the
Operational Manual; and"
5.     Section I.B.1.(a) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"(a)   maintain, until completion of the Project, the unit within SEDIP (the PMU),
created by the Borrower's Law No. 6797, of November 16, 2005, with staff, structure and
functions satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for the management, coordination,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, without limitation,
approval of PIPs, carrying out of feasibility studies, environmental screening,
procurement oversight, disbursement and accounting procedures;"
6.     Section I.B.1.(b) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"(b)   maintain, until completion of the Project, a Steering Committee (Comiti Gestor)
with structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, presided over by the Borrower's
Secretary of SEDIP and composed of other Borrower government representatives and
representatives of civil society, for the supervision and decision making regarding Part 1
of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;"
7.     Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"2. (a)The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of:
(i) the Environmental Impact Assessment; (ii) the Resettlement Framework; (iii) the
Indigenous Peoples and Quilombolas Framework; (iv) the Forestry and Natural Habitats
Framework; and (v) the manual, dated June 22, 2006 (the Operational Manual), which
contains the policies and procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of
the Project, including, inter alia: (1) the organizational structure of the Project; (2) the
Project procurement and financial management requirements and procedures; (3) the
indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation; (4) the criteria and
procedures for the preparation and approval of PIPs and the procedures for the carrying
out of the Subprojects; and (5) the model forms of the PIP Preparation Agreements, PIP
Agreements and Zoning Arrangements. In case of any inconsistency between any
provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement
will prevail.
(b) The Borrower shall and shall cause to ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect to Part 3 B of the Project shall be satisfactory to the World Bank
following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirements of the World Bank Safeguards Policies then in force, as
applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
8.     Section I.B.5 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"5.    The Borrower shall: (a) have the procurement procedures and related contract
execution performance in respect of a sample of contracts under Part 1 of the Project
audited by procurement auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
-3-


﻿case not later than six (6) months after the occurrence of each such audit, the report of
such procurement audit by said auditors; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said procurement audit as the Bank may reasonably request."
9.     The table on Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:
Category                Amount of the Loan    % of Expenditures
Allocated (Expressed     to be Financed
in Dollars)
(1) Goods                                4,500,432              100%
(2) Works and non-consultant services    9,574,498              100%
(3) Consultants' services and training   8,417,157              100%
(including the audits referred to in
Part 4 C of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement)
(4) Subprojects                         13,126,875        100% of the cost each
Subproject
(5) Administrative Costs:                                       100%
(a) under Part 2.A (2) of the         291,859
Project
(b) other than under Part 2.A (2)     1,663,621
of the Project and Subprojects
(6) Front-end Fee                         150,000          Amount due under
section 2.03 of this
Agreement
(7) Premia for Interest Rate Caps and       0              Amount due under
Collars                                                 section 2.07 (c) of
this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                             0
Subtotal                                37,724,442
Cancelled as of April 12, 2013          22,275,558
TOTAL          60,000,000
10.    Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
-4-


﻿"2.    The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. The Bank will only grant an extension
of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that
it agrees with such extension."
11.    The Appendix to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to read in its
entirety as set forth in Annex B to this Amendment Letter.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the
two originals of this Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. Henceforward, all the
provisions of the Loan Agreement except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall
remain in full force and effect.
Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions set
forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature upon
compliance by the Recipient of the following conditions: (i) one fully executed original of this
Amendment Letter has been delivered to the Bank; (ii) evidence, acceptable to the Bank, that an
amendment to the BANPARA Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto and is in
full effect and a copy of such amendment has been delivered to the Bank.
Please also note that: (i) the approved Restructuring Paper as approved by the Bank on
June 24, 2013, will be disclosed on the Bank's external website, and (ii) Schedule 3 to the Loan
Agreement is being revised by the Bank as a result of the cancellation, and the revised figures
will be sent to you promptly following the signing of this Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Deborah L. Wetzel
Director
Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
STATE OF P
By:         t-,     I,L-
Autho *zed sedtsative
Name: SIMIv              W  OCV&ffA5
Title:  _________________-M>C
Date:_______                 __
-5-


﻿cc: Mr.Roberto B. Tan, Executive Director for Brazil, The World Bank
Mr. Rog6rio Studart, Alternate Executive Director for Brazil, The World Bank
Mr. Nelson Henrique Barbosa Filho, Executive Secretary, MF - Fax: 3412-1824
Mr. Marcelo Estrela Fiche, Chief of Staff, MF - Fax: 3412-2525
Ms. Adriana Queiroz de Carvalho, Attorney General, PGFN/MF - Fax: 3412-1740
Mr. Arno Augustin Filho, Secretary, National Treasury, STN/MF-Fax: 3412-1717
Mr. Jodo Guilherme Machado, Secretary of External Affairs, SEAIN/MP - Fax: 2020-5047
Mr. Carlos Mdrcio Bicalho Cozendey, Secretary, SEAIN/MF - Fax: 3412-1722
Ms. Eva Maria Cella Dal Chiavon, Executive Secretary, MP - Fax: 2020-5003
-6-


﻿Annex A
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the income derived from productive activities
by beneficiary rural producers, while contributing to improving environmental management and
land administration in the Borrower's territory.
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Productive Investments
A.     Preparation, through the provision of technical assistance, of PIPs.
B.     Carrying out of: (1) Income Generation Subprojects; (2) Environmental Rehabilitation
Subprojects; and (3) Complementary Infrastructure Subprojects.
Part 2: Territorial Development
A.     Promotion of the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources and the conservation
of biodiversity in the Borrower's territory, through:
(1)   the development of a legal and regulatory framework for ecological and
environmental zoning and land management;
(2)    the detailing of the zoning plan, at a scale of 1:250,000 or greater, for the land
area designated for consolidation or recuperation, as described in the Operational
Manual, in accordance with the Macro Zoning Law and the Guarantor's
regulations on the subject;
(3)    the strengthening of SEMA, including, inter alia: (i) the provision of training and
equipment; (ii) the carrying out of studies and the development of new
information systems; and (iii) the improvement of environmental planning and
management processes.
B.     Provision of support for the strengthening of ITERPA and the implementation of a new
model of land administration in the Borrower's territory, through:
(1)    the carrying out of activities aimed at the modernization of ITERPA's
infrastructure and technical base, including: (i) the acquisition and development
of information technology systems and equipment; (ii) the provision of training
for staff and contractors; and (iii) the technical integration of the Borrower's land
registry with the Guarantor's rural land registry;
(2)    the improvement of a the system of land administration, through the registration
of land parcels and the issuing of titles for additional land parcels using the
Guarantor's standards;
-7-


﻿(3)    titling of selected small rural producers' lands; and
(4)    the creation of an ombudsman office (ouvidoria) as a mechanism for hearing
public complaints on land management issues.
Part 3: Policy Development
A.     Carrying out of studies to monitor income and analyze selected agricultural value-chains
to facilitate the development of plans for poverty alleviation in the Borrower's territory.
B.     Carrying out of strategic policy studies to improve territorial development in the
Borrower's territory.
Part 4: Project Mana2ement. Monitoring and Communication
A.     Operation of the PMU.
B.     Carrying out communication activities to disseminate information concerning the Project.
C.     Monitoring of the Project pursuant to agreed performance indicators, including the
carrying out of procurement and Project audits.
D.     Design and maintenance of the MIS and generation of periodic reports on the progress of
the Project.
-8-


﻿Annex B
APPENDIX - DEFINITIONS
1.     "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006.
2.     "BANPARA" means Banco do Estado do Pard, the Borrower's Bank, established
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 1819, of November 30, 1959.
3.     "BANPARA Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BANPARA and referred to in paragraph A.2 (a) (i) of Section I of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement, as said agreement may be amended from time to time with the agreement of
the Bank.
4.     "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5.     "Complementary Infrastructure Subproject" means any Subproject included in a PIP
which consists of investments in minor infrastructure works required for a successful
implementation of the Income Generation Subprojects included in such PIP.
6.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised
in October 2006.
7.     "EMATER" means Empresa de Assistncia Tcnica e Extensdo Rural do Estado do
Para, the Borrower's Agricultural Extension Agency, established by the Borrower's Law
4669, of November 9, 1976.
8.     "Environmental Impact Assessment" means the assessment prepared by the Borrower,
dated October 7, 2005, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of
the Project, including those related to pest management.
9.     "Environmental Rehabilitation Subproject" means any investment on environmental
rehabilitation activities, such as reforestation, reclamation of degraded land, improved land
management practices and agroforestry, which is included in a PIP.
10.    "Forestry and Natural Habitats Framework" means the framework prepared by the
Borrower, dated October 7, 2005, which sets out protection measures to forest and natural
habitats in respect of the Project.
11.    "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated July 1, 2005 as amended through October 17, 2007.
12.    "Income Generation Subproject" means any Subproject included in a PIP aimed at
generating employment and income for a Producer Association.
13.    "Indigenous Peoples and Quilombolas Framework" means the framework prepared by the
Borrower, dated October 7, 2005, which sets out the measures to be taken to ensure that
indigenous peoples and Quilombolas will not be harmed by the Project and to ensure their
-9-


﻿participation and involvement in the implementation and monitoring of the Project as it
affects them.
14.    "ITERPA" means Instituto de Terras do Pard, the Borrower's Land Management Institute,
an autonomous entity under the supervision of SAGRI, established by the Borrower's Law
No. 4584, of October 8, 1975, as amended through the Borrower's Law No. 7022 dated
July 24, 2007.
15.    "ITERPA Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
ITERPA and referred to in paragraph A.3 of Section I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
16.    "Macro Zoning Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 6.745, dated May 6, 2005, which
establishes the economic/ecologic macro-zoning of the Borrower's territory.
17.    "MIS" means the management and information system to be established by the Borrower to
record and compile financial and physical data related to the Project, as well as to issue
periodic reports as specified in the Operational Manual.
18.    "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph B.2 (e) of Section I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank;
19.    "PIP" means a productive investment plan to be prepared by a Producer Association that
includes Subprojects to be financed under the Project; such plan could include a mixture of
Income Generation Subprojects, Environmental Rehabilitation Subprojects and
Complementary Infrastructure Subprojects.
20.    "PIP Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph A.2 (a) (ii) of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21.    "PIP Preparation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph A. 1 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22.    "PMU" means the Project management unit within SEDIP referred to in paragraph B.1 (a)
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23.    "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004, as revised in October 2006.
24.    "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June 22,
2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraphs.
25.    "Producer Association" means a group formed by either agricultural and non-agricultural
producers, organized in associations, cooperatives, unions or any other form of
incorporation with a legal personality (pessoajuridica), duly established in the Borrower's
territory in accordance with the applicable Brazilian laws.
26.    "Program" means the program designed to implement mechanisms aimed at increasing the
income of rural poor population of the Borrower in a sustainable and secure environment,
- 10 -


﻿as set forth or referred to in the letter dated January 27, 2006, from the Borrower to the
Bank.
27.    "Quilombolas" means the groups of Brazilians of African descent living in homogeneous
village groups mainly in rural areas in the Borrower's territory.
28.    "Resettlement Framework" means the policy framework for population resettlement, dated
October 7, 2005, prepared by the Borrower, which sets out the policies and procedures that
shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any population resettlement action plan
that may be required under the Project.
29.    "SAGRI" means Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Agriculture, established by the Borrower's Law No. 699, of November 6, 1963, as
amended through Borrower's Law No. 6674 of August 2, 2004.
30.    "SEMA" means Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Environment, established by the Borrower's Law No. 7026, of July 30, 2007.
31.    "SEDIP" means Secretaria Especial de Estado de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e
Incentivo ai Produqdo, the Borrower's Special Secretariat for Economic Development and
Productive Incentives, established by the Borrower's Law No. 7543 of July 20, 2011.
32.    "SEPOF" means Secretaria Executiva de Estado de Planejamento, Orqamento e Finanqas,
the Borrower's Secretariat of Planning, Budget and Finance, established by the Borrower's
Law No. 6565, of August 1, 2003
33.    "Subproject" means an Income Generation Subproject, an Environmental Rehabilitation
Subproject or a Complementary Infrastructure Subproject.
34.    "World Bank Safeguard Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.worldbank.orp/opmanual.
35.    "Zoning Arrangement" means any of the arrangements referred to in paragraph A.4 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
36.    "Zoning Partner" means any federal, state and/or municipal public institution with capacity
for preparation and/or implementation of zoning activities.
- 11 -


