Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19005 - MAU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 1 1.1 SDRIUS$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
APRIL 20, 1999
Mining and Industry Unit (EMTIM)
Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Sao Tome & Principe (AFC15)
Africa Region (AFR)



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/04/99)
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
UM 1,000 = US$ 4.838
US$ 1 = UM 206.7
SDR 1 = US$ 1.336
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DEAR         Direction de l'Environnement et de l'Amenagement Rural
DMG          Directorate of Mines and Geology
EIS          Environmental Impact Statement
EMS          Environmental Management System
GIS          Geographical Information System
ICR          Implementation Completion report
MIS          Minerals Information System
MMI          Ministry of Mines and Industry
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
OM1RG        Office Mauritanien des Recherches Geologiques
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PSDCB        Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
SNIM         Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
TA           Technical Assistance
UCPM         Mining Project Coordinating Unit
Vice President: Mr. Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director: Mr. Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director: Mr. Peter van der Veen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Mr. Paulo de Sa



Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
CONTENTS                                                           Page
A. Project Development Objective ..........................................................                                        2
1. Background ................................................................                                                   2
2.  Project development objective and key performance indicators .........                                                       3
B. Strategic Context ................................................................                                              4
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ............................................                                 4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................                                 5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................                                  6
C. Project Description  Summary ................................................................                                   8
1. Project components ................................................................                                           8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............................                                   9
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                              10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...............................................    10
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                            12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ....................................    12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........  12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ...................................                                 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................    13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...................................................    13
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................                                     13
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                     13
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                    14
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                    14
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                14
5. Social ...............................................................                                                       15
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                     15
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................                                       15



F. Sustainability and Risks ...................................................................                                                16
1.  Sustainability ...................................................................                                                       16
2. Critical risks ...................................................................                                                        16
3.  Possible controversial aspects ...................................................................                                       17
G. Main Credit Conditions ...................................................................                                                  17
1. Effectiveness conditions ...................................................................                                              17
2. Other ...................................................................                                                                 17
H. Readiness for Implementation ..................................................................  18
L. Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................................  18
Annexes
Annex  1.   Project Design  Summary ............................................................                                               20
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description                                        ..22
Annex  3. Estimated  Project Costs ..............................................................                                              26
Annex 4  Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary  ................                                      ............................               27
Annex  5. Financial Summary  ...............................................................                                                   29
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ...................................                                                         31
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................                                                     33
Table Al . Consultant Selection Arrangements-------------------------------------------                                                   34
Table B.  Tresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ...................                                                           35
Table C.    Allocation  of Credit Proceeds ..................................................                                              36
Annex 7. Note on the Financial Management System .....................................                                                         37
Annex 8. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..........................................                                                     41
Annex  9.   Documents in Project File ...........................................................                                              42
Annex  10. Statement of Loans and Credits ..........................                                 ..........................                43
Annex  11. Country  at a Glance ...............................................................                                                44
Annex 12. Proposed organization for the Ministry of Mines and industry's mining agencies. 45
Map



Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Vice-Presidency
Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Sao Tome & Principe (AFC 15)
Date: 04/10/99                                     Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Paulo de Sa
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy              Sector Manager/Director: Peter van der Veen
Project ID: MR-PE-57875    Sector: Mining          Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Credit    Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [XI Credit      [I] Guarantee     [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 15 million/SDR I 1. lmillion
Proposed terms: standard IDA          [X] Multicurrency      [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):         []  Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed          []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:      %
Service charge:    %
Financing plan (US$m): US$ 15.5 million
Source                            Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  0.5                                0.5
IDA                                                         1.8               13.2            15.0
Total          2.3               13.2             15.5
Borrower: Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Mines and Industry
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2000       2001      2002     2003     2004  2005   2006
Annual      1.2       3.1       4.5       3.2      3.0
Cumulative      1.2      4.3       8.8       12.0     15.0
For Guarantees:                               []   Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:           []   Yes              []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/1999    Expected closing date: 12/31/2004
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Background
Mauritania has a favorable geologic environment but, apart from iron ore, there is little mineral
production in the country. Exploration activities have rapidly increased since 1994 reflecting, among
others: (i) the discovery of significant deposits in neighboring countries with similar geological
conditions, especially Mali; and (ii) substantial improvements in the regulatory framework's
attractiveness to private investors over the last years. These improvements, reflected in the approval of a
new Mining Law, were praised by both donors and the private sector during the Consultative Group
meeting in Paris in March 1998.
The Government of Mauritania is actively seeking to attract private and foreign investment to promote
growth in the sector and, so far, investors have shown positive interest in terms of exploration activities.
Many other potential targets have been identified, but foreign investment in the mining sector has yet to
materialize because of insufficient geological information available on the country, the lack of
infrastructure, and the weakness of government institutions in key areas.
While investments in exploration have expanded considerably in recent years, they are still well below
what might be expected given Mauritania's mineral potential. There are three main reasons for this
situation:
(i) the geoscientific information presently available on the country is quite insufficient for investors.
Mauritania does not have complete coverage of geological maps, and only limited geophysical, and
geochemical maps. Most of the existing geological information was produced in the 1970s and early
1980s and is generally not accessible to private investors. There is urgent need to complete the geological
coverage and mineral resources assessment of the country and to compile all information into a
computerized minerals data base.
(ii) in spite of the progress achieved in mining sector reform, namely in the drafting of a new Mining
Code and the enhancement of security of tenure of mining rights, weak Govermnent institutions and
cumbersome regulations pose severe constraints to the enforcement of the new legal framework. There is
a need to reorganize and streamline the mining institutions under the Ministry of Mines and Industry
(MMI), redefine their mandates and provide them with the required resources to fulfill their new
mandates.
(iii) the crisis in Asia (responsible for 50% of the growth in metals demand) and global instability in the
financial markets have depressed commodity prices and led to a substantial reduction in the investment
budget of most mining enterprises. While the major companies have scaled back their exploration
expenditures, it is virtually impossible to small and medium-sized mining companies to raise capital
under the present conditions of the mining cycling.
Bank's assistance for mining sector reforrm in Mauritania started under the Private Sector Development
and Capacity Building Project (Credit 2730-MAU) which provided technical assistance to the following
activities: (i) Mining Sector Policy Declaration, clearly defining the respective roles of the State and of
the private sector in mining development in Mauritania; (ii) Update of the Mining Code, with the draft of
a new Mining Law recently approved by the Council of Ministers, and its application decrees; (iii)
Enhancement of security of tenure of mining rights, with the establishment of a registry system for the
granting and management of mining rights (Cadastre); (iv) Preparation for the reorganization of the
mining institutions under MMI, through an Institutional Audit of the Ministry of Mines and Industry,
identifying the major constraints for an efficient performance of its mining agencies; (v) Preparation of
promotional material to help attract foreign direct investment in mining in Mauritania; and (vi) Exposure



Page 3
to international best practices of Government officials through the participation in field trips and
seminars.
A PHRD/Japanese grant obtained to finance technical support required by Government to prepare the
proposed project is assisting in the consolidation of the mentioned reforms in the areas of: (i) Institutional
strengthening, developing a scope of work to create an integrated computerized information system inside
the Ministry available to private investors which would collect, store and treat all sector related data
(geological, environmental, etc.), including identification of required human resources; (ii) Mining
Cadastre, implementing of a manual registry system and designing a computerized one, including
defining criteria and non discretionary procedures for the granting and foreclosing of mining rights; and
(iii) Environment, preparing satisfactory mining environmental regulations; satisfactory institutional
arrangements and capabilities for environmental protection; satisfactory procedures for environmental
assessments; and building capacity inside the Ministry of Mines in environmental-related issues.
The revised mining code and the reforms being supported by the proposed project will put Mauritania on
the path of the international best practices being introduced by the most advanced mining countries of
Latin America, and make the country a benchmark in mining sector reform for other countries in the
Region. It will help to position Mauritania to fully benefit from the next surge in minerals investment
brought by the recovery in the cycle, expected in two years.
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the Government's capacity to act as a facilitator and
regulator of mining activities and significantly increase private investment in Mauritania's mining sector.
The project will help the Government of Mauritania to address key needs (policy, institutional,
environmental) in the mining sector, through a set of prerequisite steps that will lay the ground for future
private investment and whose implementation will provide a sound basis for Mauritania in exploiting,
over the long term and in a developmentally sound manner, the significant potential of its natural
resources. The proposed project aims are : (a) to complete sector reforms in order to establish an enabling
environment to attract foreign direct investment in mining, which would ensure a real and sustainable
contribution to economic growth; (b) to build institutional capacity to effectively enforce laws and
regulations, administer mining titles, and monitor sector developments; (c) to strengthen the
Government's capacity to make essential geological information available to potential investors,
including a mining data bank and a geological map; and (d) to establish capacity in the country, by means
of pilot projects, to identify and address environmental as well as social impacts from mining.
The project has been designed to provide a learning experience for the country, the Bank, and investors
with respect to the mining sector but also for attracting private sector investment in other sectors.
Learning will relate to the process of negotiating contracts, including interface between public and private
sectors and communities; dealing with foreign investors, meeting investor needs; understanding cross-
sector dynamics in the context of regional development, and establishing effective inter-relationships with
Environment agencies; and conducting baseline environmental studies and social assessments prior to
introducing mining operations in an area. Valuable lessons for other sectors, especially tourism and
fisheries, are also expected from the project. Mining sector experience could be especially helpful in
learning how to administer the cadastre, with lessons for the administration on the land cadastre, the
management of fishing rights, and overall investment promotion.
Key indicators:
1) Increase Private Investment, exports and fiscal revenues:
(a) Increase in the number of private operators involved in the different stages of the mining cycle.
(b) Increase in average annual investments in mining.
(c) Increase in average annual minerals exports.
(d) Increase fiscal revenues from mining.



Page 4
2) Set the base for the creation of an Environmental and Social Management for Mining:
(a) Preparation of detailed procedures for Environmental Impact Assessments.
(b) Number of Environmental Impact Assessment appraised.
3) Improve Minerals Information System.
(a) Number of maps published
(b) Number of consultations to the MIS system
4) Improve the efficiency of the mining institutions under MM
(a) Average number of days required for granting a mining title
(b) Backlog and number of complaints of the Mining Cadastre
The performance of key indicators grouped under point (1) is expected to decline in the next couple of
years as a result of the current downturn in the investment cycle for minerals and metals. However, as a
result of the project, Mauritania should be in a position to fully benefit from the next recovery and register
a significant improvement in key indicators. The number of private operators actively involved in
exploration, for example, is expected to increase from the current 10 to about 20-30 over the next five
years, resulting in an increase of annual investment expenditures from less than US$ 20 million today to
US$ 40-50 million. On the other hand, non-iron ore mineral exports could go from virtually nil to about
US$ 100-150 million over the next ten years (see project description).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16595   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 17, 1997
Since 1992, the Government of Mauritania has been implementing a wide range of policy, economic and
sector reforms under its structural adjustment program. In the course of the dialogue preceding the 1997
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Government has acknowledged that sound economic
management, conducted by dynamic and competent institutions, is crucial to its ability to act efficiently
both as a promoter of economic development and as a regulator of economic activities.
The proposed project supports the following CAS objectives:
(i) Broad-based growth led by private sector development: the supply response to the major structural
reforms adopted by Government has been slow, and Mauritania continues to be highly dependent on two
export products: fish and iron ore. In the 1992-96 period, direct private investment averaged about US$
75 million per annum, of which foreign investment amounted to about US$ 8 million per year. These
weak results are due mainly to the inconsistent application of a strong and clear private-sector regulatory
framework, a judiciary which is neither independent nor reliable, and the lack of a sound financial
intermediation system. Moreover, the lack of a well developed and maintained transport infrastructure,
the inadequate supply of skilled labor, high freight costs and high utility tariffs do not make Mauritania a
competitive environment for long-term private investment. The Government needs to aggressively
accelerate economic growth through policies and programs aimed at increasing the level of private
investment, thereby raising productivity, providing employment and generating income for the labor
force. Foreign-led private sector investment in mining could be instrumental in opening up the economy
to investment and competition, effectively supporting macroeconomic stability and structural reform. The
proposed project will contribute to unlock the country's good geological potential through enhanced
access to foreign technology and financing, while promoting the development of a sound regulatory
framework for private-led growth.
(ii) Restructuring and Modernizing the Public Sector: Government's institutional apparatus has not yet
adapted to its new role of regulating economic activities and promoting poverty reduction in a market-
oriented economy. The Government is aware that an inappropriate institutional framework, weak



Page 5
administrative capacity, and a civil service that is reluctant to adopt up-to-date work practices and lacks
accountability, have contributed to inefficiencies and mismanagement of public resources, which in turn
has restrained the development of a dynamic private sector. The Government is convinced that its central
objective of reducing poverty through accelerated growth can only be accomplished through institutional
and administrative reforms that refocus the role of the State, remove inefficient and arbitrary regulations,
and build a strong partnership between the State and the civil society at large. Mining has been in the
frontline of sector legal reform and could also became a pilot sector for public institutions reform. The
project will allocate most of the resources for institutional development to public mining institutions,
including the environmental protection agencies, as a basis for the sound and sustainable development of
the mining industry. This includes improved administration, and rationalization of staff. The project will
help widen and deepen reform, and establish environmental safeguards in selected pilot areas and support
the sustainable development of the sector. Environmental baseline studies would also help improve
management of renewable natural resources.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Mauritania is known to have a diverse composition of minerals, given that a part of its territory
represents a structural extension of the mineral provinces of Western Africa, namely Ghana, Burkina Faso
and Mali. Nevertheless, the country's geological potential can still be classified as vastly unknown due to
the paucity of high-quality exploration activity. Current mining activity is dominated by iron ore. Other
than majority state-owned iron ore producer SNIM, there is currently a copper-gold project (also with
significant State participation) whose development plans have been adversely affected by low metal
prices. In parallel to these more traditional activities, the country has been experiencing in recent years a
surge of exploration activities mainly financed by private foreign companies. Their work has resulted in
the recent discovery of promising gold and diamond deposits. Although their economic potential still
needs to be evaluated, these discoveries confirm Mauritania's mineral potential and reinforce
Government's commitment to attract more private investment to the sector.
Mauritania's Mining Policy Declaration approved by the Council of Ministers in 1997 states that one of
the Government objectives is to increase revenues through the diversification of production in the mining
sector. Government is therefore seeking to accelerate the growth of the mining sector by creating
favorable conditions through the removal of obstacles which constraint private sector development.
The main sector issues to be addressed by the Government strategy under the proposed project are:
(i)      Rationalizing the role of the State by reducing its involvement in mining exploration and
development activities. Given the high-risk nature of exploration, the role of the State should be confined
to the administration of the sector and the provision of basic geologic information, leaving the high cost,
risky exploratory activities to the private sector. Government's strategy is to reduce its involvement in
mining exploration by reorienting the state-owned exploration unit, the Office Mauritanien des
Recherches Geologiques (OMRG) to more upstream activities like geological reconnaissance and
mapping.
(ii)   Strengthening and modernizing MMI's agencies involved in monitoring and regulating mining
activities. Institutions such as the Directorate of Mines and Geology (DMG) and OMRG, which fulfill the
role of the State as administrator - regulator of the mineral resources of the country, and whose
performance in the discharge of their services and responsibilities (such as enforcement of laws and
regulations, provision of reliable geological database, administration of mineral rights and monitoring of
environmental liabilities), are critical in the efficient operation of a private sector-led mining industry. At
present, these institutions are deficient in their level of expertise, capabilities, and do not have adequate
equipment to undertake their activities. Furthermore, they are poorly funded and have limited experience
in dealing with the private sector. The project would provide technical assistance for consultancy services
for training and procurement of essential modern equipment for these institutions.



Page 6
(iii)    Developing Environmental baseline data and a monitoring system. Although Mauritania is
preparing legislative and a regulatory framework to address environmental impact assessment issues, the
procedures for the execution of these regulations are fragmented. Furthermore, the institutions lack the
capabilities to monitor and address the environmental problems efficiently and in a timely manner, and in
particular to implement rehabilitation measures with regard to mining. In order to assess the gravity of the
problem, there is a need to undertake environmental baseline studies in selected areas, which would
provide a basis for the environmental protection measures to be implemented in the mining areas. In this
regard, technical assistance would be- provided for upgrading the capabilities of the institutions
responsible for monitoring and regulating environmental pollution including developing environment
impact assessment procedures and appropriate monitoring procedures. The program will be conducted in
cooperation with the staff of the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment.
(iv)   Promoting private sector investment in the mining sector. With regard to promotion of private
sector participation in exploration and mine development, a new mining law was recently approved by the
Government. By reducing the discretionary power of Government, increasing transparency, and
improving security to potential investors, the new Mining Code is expected to provide the adequate
legislative framework for regulating and monitoring activities in the sector, and to make a major
contribution to attract foreign investments into mining, namely of gold and diamonds. Of particular
importance to provide a sense of security for potential investors is the stabilization of the legal, fiscal, and
institutional arrangements prevailing at the time of the investment, as well as setting-up a professional
system to manage the granting of mining rights. In addition to that, the new geological information that
will be generated under the project will provide a new tool to guide the exploration efforts of private
mining companies in Mauritania, especially in remote areas of difficult access.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The last 25 years have seen significant changes in the international mining industry, in large measure
because of the liberalization of economic and mining policies of previously restrictive governments in
mining countries. These reforms have had three broad objectives, to improve sector performance and
growth and the contribution of mining to the national economies, to ensure the sustainability of the
mining industries in the developing countries, and to ensure that the host countries get a fair share from
the benefits of growth of the sector.
In the context of a generally healthy metal commodity price scenario, the result has been an upsurge in
mining investment in those countries which have adopted legal, institutional and taxation reforms.
Between 1989 and 1997 Latin America, the region where the reform was implemented more thoroughly,
saw a four-fold increase in investment in exploration (for the countries of the region with comprehensive
reform programs the increase was twelve-fold) while the world total increased by 90%. Furthermore, the
reforming countries have achieved progress in the economic, environmental and social aspects of mining,
thus strengthening the sustainability of the sector.
Work Bank involvement in the reform process of successful mining countries shows that, for this to
happen, the enactment of the necessary legal, fiscal and environmental policies and the establishment of
strong mining institutions to implement and administer them have proven to be the keys to success. This
includes: (i) a background of sensible economic policies and a coherent general legal framework; (ii) a
mining law providing security of tenure, clarity and transparency and access to land (including the release
of reserved areas held up by the State and full transferability of concessions to remove all barriers to the
entry of investors), and an investment framework providing access to foreign exchange and a stable and
equitable fiscal regime; (iii) public mining institutions that apply properly the sectoral policies; (iv) a
sensible environmental management system, and (v) clear, economically efficient rules dealing with
enterprise restructuring and privatization. Further progress will depend to a large extent on the continued
development of institutional capabilities, in an environment of sensible macro-economic policies, to
ensure the sustainability of the progress achieved.



Page 7
The main issues to be addressed by the proposed Project are:
a) Building Capacity of the MMI's mining agencies. The project would assist in: (i) strengthening the
policy making, regulating development and sector monitoring capabilities in MMI; (ii) rationalizing the
role of the State from being an owner and operator of mining assets to a regulator and administrator by
reducing State involvement in exploration and mining by allowing and promoting private sector
participation; (iii) finalizing the implementation of an enabling legal and regulatory framework aimed at
promoting private mining enterprises; and (iv) restructuring and modernizing of the Directorate of Mining
and Geology, based on the redefinition of its mandate and procedure, in order to transform it into a sector
promotion tool providing a good base of sound geological information; (v) establishing proper computer-
based cadastre and mine-reporting systems as well as explicit criteria and non-discretionary procedures
for the granting and foreclosing of mining rights; and (vi) improving capacity at MMI to attract private
sector investment by allocating resources for promotional programs, and institutional development.
Technical assistance would be provided through the preparation and implementation of a program which
would provide for training of staff and for the procurement of equipment and materials to improve the
administration and regulatory role of these institutions, including, enforcement of the laws and
regulations, administering of mining titles, and monitoring of sector development.
b) Developing the country's Geological Infrastructure. The project would: (i) provide for a complete
coverage of geological maps for Mauritania at the 1:500,000 scale, as well as mapping of selected areas at
the 1:200,000 scale; (ii) carry-out geophysics airborne survey in selected promising areas; (iii) provide
assistance in introducing new technologies, especially in GIS-based geological mapping, thematic
mapping, mineral resource assessment, and environmental base line information; and (iv) provide
assistance in the implementation of a Minerals Information System (MIS), a computer-based system to
compile and catalogue dispersed data, to facilitate the access to information (bibliography, technical
reports, statistics, legal documents, etc.) both for private users and public institutions.
c) Protecting and enhancing the environment. The project would lay the base for the preparation of a
sector environmental assessment, by establishing pilot environmental baseline data and a monitoring
system for the environmental impacts of mining; implementing adequate procedures and guidelines for
the preparation of environmental impact studies in mining; defining sector specific environmental
regulations and standards, including the procedures for the rehabilitation of the area after mine closure;
developing health and safety provisions, and enhance the Ministry of Mines and Industry monitoring
capacity. The capability of the Ministry of Mines and Industry to deal with environmental issues would be
strengthened through the training of its staff, in order to ensure that mining operations are conducted in
compliance with sound environmental practices.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)  financing
1. Capacity Building, including:  Institution-         2.55      16.5       2.47      16.5
1.1. Institutional Reform: restructure   building,
and strengthen MMI's ability to    Physical
enforce the mining law. This
includes: organization and staffing of
key administrative units, setting-up of
efficient work procedures; training of
staff; provision of adequate office and
field equipment; rehabilitation of
facilities; participation in and
organization of seminars; and
promotional publications.
1.2. Mining Titles Registry and
Management System (Mining
Cadastre): establish proper computer
based cadastre and mine reporting
systems as well as explicit criteria and
non discretionary procedures for the
granting and foreclosing of mining
rights, and training officials to
implement and manage the system.
2. Geologic Infrastructure,        Institution-        10.45     67.4      10.02      67.1
including:                         building,
2.1. Geological Mapping/ Minerals   Physical
Information System: preparation of
digital geological maps covering the
entire country, plus development of a
data base, providing for compilation,
treatment, and updating of geological
information. This includes: field
campaigns, purchase of information,
provision of hardware and software,
internet connection, collection of
geological data, training of staff.
2.2. Geophysic Airborne Survey:
aeromagnetic and radiometric survey
of two of the most promising mineral
provinces of Mauritania, over an area
of 200,000 km2, in support of
geological mapping.
2.3. Supervision and publication of
maps: supervision and integration of
the two previous sub-components;
processing, and printing of the
geological maps produced on digital
form.



Page 9
3. Environmental Management       Institution-        1.50      9.7      1.50      10.0
System (EMS): including capacity    building,
building at MMI for monitoring and    Physical
enforcement of environmental
regulations; pilot environmental and
socio-economic baseline studies in
selected mining areas as a basis for
development of methodology and
capacity to assess and monitor social,
cultural and economic impacts of
mining on local communities;
development of consultation and
participatory procedures, training for
MMI and Ministry of Environment's
officials.
4. Project Coordination Unit      Project             1.00      6.4      0.95       6.3
(UCPM)                            Management
Total       15.50    100.0      15.00    100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy reform. The Project will help Government to: (i) consolidate key reforms attempting to create an
enabling environment for an economically, socially and environmentally sound development of the
sector; and (ii) strengthen its capacity as a regulator - in a transparent and non-discretionary manner - of
mining activities.
Institutional reform. The main mining agencies under MMI are the Minister's Cabinet, where the legal
expertise is located, the General Secretariat, in charge of planning, and administrative matters, and the
Directorate of Mines and Geology which currently includes five units: Strategic Planning and Studies;
Minerals Promotion; Mining; Geology; and Hydrocarbons. The main state-owned companies or agencies
under the Ministry are SNIM and its subsidiaries, SAMIN which is a shareholder of GEMAK, promoter
of the Akjoujt project, and OMRG.
An audit of MMI conducted under the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
identified its major institutional constraints: (i) absolute lack of financial resources that prevents the
Ministry from monitoring the real developments in the mining areas; (ii) extreme insufficiency of
qualified human resources and lack of technical skills; (iii) lax procedures, namely in the administration
of mining titles; (iv) very limited availability of geologic information, stored in poor physical conditions
and not available to the public; (v) excessive centralization at the manager's level and inefficient
procedures and flow of information; (vi) poor relations with other line ministries; (vii) lack of strategic
vision; and (viii) lack of coordination with the private sector in the promotion of the private investment.
The audit proposed a new organization for MMI, including inter-institutional relationships and mandates,
and an action plan for the establishment of new internal procedures, the definition of the skills profiles
required, and correspondent training programs, as well as budget requirements. The institutional
reorganization proposed by the audit was introduced by Government Decree in March 1998. The new
organization is however far too ambitious with regards to the mandates and staffing of the Directorate of
Mining and Geology (DMG), and is beyond MMI's current human and financial resources. During
appraisal, a new functional organization for DMG was agreed with MMI, focusing its service units on the
three main components of the proposed project - Mining, Geology, and Environment - and creating a
Mining Cadastre inside MMI, as a separate unit from DMG (Annex 11). The capacity building measures
required to meet the project's objectives have also been identified and agreed upon. The publication of a
Decree establishing the new organization agreed during appraisal is a condition for negotiations.



Page 10
The institutional reform agreed during appraisal will be implemented in the context of this project. An
important aspect of the reform will be the introduction in the Cadastre of a principle of cost recovery for
the services performed to users. The Mining Cadastre will charge fee for the registry, and renovation of
mining licenses and will be financed through a rental surface fee to be paid by title holders in accordance
with the extension of the areas requested. These revenues from will be deposited on an existing special
account called "Contribution of the Mining Operators to the Promotion of Mineral Exploration in
Mauritania", managed by the Minister of Mines and audited by the Minister of Finance. The money
available in the account will be allocated to: (i) the operation of the Mining Cadastre; (ii) the supervision
of mining operations and enforcement of the Mining Law, including from the environmental point of
view; (iii) the acquisition of new geoscientific data; and (iv) training and seminars. A financial simulation
made during appraisal concluded that the proposed organization could be financed out of the cadastral
fees resulting from 50% of the current area covered by mining pertnits. It should be noted that the
Geological Service could be at least partially funded from the sale of geological data (on a cost-recovery
plus small margin basis).
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
The following benefits are expected:
(i) induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and local direct investment in mining and increased
export revenues; (b) development of capacity in private services to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories, mining construction works
and earth removal, maintenance and others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a
regional development impact (e.g. roads, energy); (d) increased income-generating opportunities in
remote areas, increased education opportunities and reduced migration outflow; (e) contribution to a
better regional distribution of productive activities; and (f) sustainable development and fair distribution
of benefits to local communities located around mining areas;
(ii) as a direct result of the project: (a) establishment of a modem, consistent and homogeneous mining
legal and regulatory framework; (b) better understanding of how Government, private sector,
communities and donors can work together dealing with foreign investors, and the contract negotiations
process; (c) improved efficiency in MMI's mining agencies (e.g. faster and non-discretionary
administration of mining rights and improved understanding of issues involved in managing such rights),
and improved enforcement capacity of environmental, health and safety regulations; (d) improved
security of tenure for mining rights through non-discretionary procedures and accurate geological location
of concessions; (e) improved knowledge of existing environmental and socio-economic conditions, as a
basis for improved management and participation of local communities; (f) protection of the environment
from potential damage caused by mining and a better grasp of how to design future environmental
protection measures in the sector; and (g) generation of baseline regional information that can be used by
all sectors (e.g. water resources).
Target Populations and Sectors:
- Private foreign and local mining investors;
- National and provincial mining authorities; and
- Local communities in mining districts.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period: The Project would be implemented over a period of 5 years. The Project
completion date would be June 30, 2004 and the Credit closing date would be December 31, 2004.
Executing agency: The Ministry of Mines and Industry (MMI) would be responsible for the
implementation of the project.



Page 1 1
Implementing agency: The Ministry of Mines and Industry, through an officially designated coordinator,
will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. MMI's line units will be established
and/or strengthened to include a Mining Cadastre and Registry unit, an Environmental Affairs Unit and a
Minerals Information System (MIS).
Project Administration: MMI will maintain and strengthen a Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM)
to (i) coordinate project implementation, and (ii) manage (a) procurement - including all contracting for
works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c)
the contractual relationship with IDA, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements. The establishment of the UCPM is a condition of negotiations.
Accounting, financial reporting and audits: The UCPM will include a financial management expert to
maintain accounts and process payments, and monitor compliance with accounting, financial reporting,
and auditing requirements. Terms of reference for the selection of a private accounting firm hired to set
up the project financial and accounting system according to international standards have been prepared by
the Region's Financial Management expert to ensure adequate attention to financial management issues.
The financial and accounting system for the proposed Project will be based on the one developed for the
Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project. During appraisal, the financial management
specialist has identified weaknesses in the proposed financial system, and no-objection was given to
selected firm. The Financial Management expert will certify UCPM's accountant and the proposed
financial and accounting system before credit effectiveness. The review witl cover: (i) the project's chart
of accounts and linkages to activities; (ii) selection of disbursement categories; (iii) ability to distinguish
between sources of funds (IDA, Government, other donors); (iv) accounting standards; (v) reporting
formats; (vi) recording of measurable outputs, and integration of accounting and budget information; (vii)
contract management data; (viii) the budgetary process (preparation and monitoring); and (ix) internal
control arrangements (segregation of duties, documented procedures for purchase and expense
authorizations). A summary financial report would be included in the quarterly progress reports. Project
Accounts, the Special Account and all procurement, including Statements of Expenditure, would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and appointed for three years. Audit reports
would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each calendar year. The selection of
external auditors represents an effectiveness condition.
Project preparation ensured that the accounting system including the chart of accounts would be in
compliance with LACI by Mid-Term Review. Specifically, this implies that it would be: (a) configured
and capable of preparing monthly/quarterly/semestrial and annual financial reports (including, a Sources
and Application of Funds statement and a balance sheet, if deemed appropriate); and (b) able to produce
the following quarterly reports/statements: (i) summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Contract
Expenditure Report- Goods and Works; (iii) Contract Expenditure Report- Consultants; (iv) Procurement
Management Report- Goods and Works, and (v) Procurement Management Report- Consultants.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the UCPM will submit to the IDA
quarterly progress reports covering all project activities, including procurement, and a financial summary
report. A Mid-Term Review, 30 months after effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of
implementation progress towards development objectives, including performance to date on selected
indicators of project benefits (see 3-i and 3-ii above). Baseline data on these indicators will be gathered
prior to this mid-term review and used in the assessment. During the Mid-Term review, the mission will
assess and review the project's financial management system and determine if the system is in
compliance with LACI.



Page 12
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
When considering the most appropriate instrument to facilitate institutional capacity building to
Mauritania's public mining institutions, two main alternatives were examined: a Technical Assistance
Credit, and a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL).
The proposed project would meet the criteria for LILs in two main aspects: (a) it includes work to develop
an understanding of and capacity to address social impacts of mining - for which solutions and examples
of good practice are not readily available elsewhere; and (b) it contains pilot projects for environmental
management and social assessment which if successful are replicable. Given the country's limited ability
to absorb substantial amounts of money to finance sector reforms, the LIL would lay the foundation for a
follow-up TA to broaden and deepen the reform effort once it is demonstrated that the first round of
reform is successfully absorbed.
This alternative was rejected because the proposed project will help to implement reforms that were
originally conceived under the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project, which
Government is now ready to implement. It includes institutional strengthening (for both mining and
environmental functions of Government) to assist the institutions to cope with an anticipated large
program of exploration and development by private mining investors. Because foreign investment will not
materialize unless MMI is able to efficiently administer and manage the sector, a strategic decision was
taken to use an integrated approach to sector reform while, at the same time, supporting the preparation of
pilot projects in selected areas, like environmental baseline studies and audits, and assessment of social
impact of mining projects and participatory approaches.
Experience in other countries of the region like Mali, Burkina Faso and Guinea suggests that a single TA
operation can be an effective way to implement lasting mining sector reform. The reform agenda is quite
comprehensive and ambitious, considering the current state of the public mining institutions in
Mauritania. Mining could be a pioneer sector for further foreign investment in the country, and lessons
learned during the negotiating of contracts and in the process of creating an enabling environment for
foreign investment could later serve as a catalyst for other sectors such as tourism and fisheries.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                    Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Capacity building for Government    Private Sector                S              S
Institutions and promotion of private   Development and
sector development                Capacity Building Project
(Credit 2730-MAU)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from the ongoing activities being carried out under the PSDCB, as well as
from other countries where the Bank has financed similar capacity building operations (e.g. Mali, Burkina
Faso, Guinea, Ghana, and Tanzania) and from a recent Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin
America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996).
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling environment increases the ability of a
country to attract and retain appropriate private investment. For instance, Ghana in the late 1980s
undertook significant reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the enabling
environment for private sector investment in mining. The result has been a four-fold increase in gold
production, a mining investment climate that is consistently ranked among the best in the world by
investors, and the privatization of state-owned mining enterprises. Experience with establishing capacity
for environmental management in other countries, namely Latin America, indicates that the central
agency mandated with environmental responsibility needs to adopt an integrated approach and establish
close linkages with sector agencies in implementing environmental policies and regulations.
Experience in Mauritania with capacity building, for instance, the Private Sector Development and
Capacity Building Project, suggests that emphasis on beneficiary participation in project preparation,
intensive supervision, organization and coordination in the field are critical for timely and effective
implementation. Ownership and political commitment to project objectives are key to ensuring strong
local leadership, availability of counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial authority and
responsibilities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Borrower is shown by the effort put into the preparation of a new Mining Code (with
Bank's assistance, under the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project), and on the
preparation of a mining session during the last Consultative Group Meeting in Paris.
Ownership: the Borrower took initiative in requesting the preparation of a stand-alone operation for
mining. Government ownership is indicated by the seriousness of its participation in the preparation of
the project so far, including the realization of several workshops dealing with in-depth analysis of sector
reforms to be supported by the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been the leading provider of assistance to mining sector reform in African and Latin
American countries during the last decade and in this capacity has contributed to the present mining
"boom" in both continents. Since 1992, Mauritania is making good use of the Bank's experience in sector
reform, particularly with respect to sector policy and modernization of its institutional and legal
frameworks. Given its experience and established presence in the country, Bank involvement would
facilitate the implementation of the project in a timely and efficient manner and ensure that the
Government maintains its focus on the objectives of the project. Bank involvement will also be catalytic
in attracting additional funds and support from bilateral donors particularly for the implementation of the
social mitigation measures, and in providing the environment for encouraging private sector investment.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$     million; ERR=   % [ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other:
The Project is a capacity building operation and, as such, does not lend itself easily to quantitative
investment analysis. However, a number of economic indicators can be projected and compared, such as
value of mineral exports, fiscal revenues coming from the sector, and amount of investments. The value
of iron ore production is about $216 million or almost 20 percent of Mauritania's 1997 GNP of US$1.1



Page 14
billion. Mauritania's total exports in 1997 were about US$ 500 million, of which 40 percent
corresponded to a single mineral export. Most of the foreseeable expansion is in base and precious metals,
as well as diamonds, and the majority of this production will be exported and generate foreign exchange.
Mining investments other than SNIM are limited to exploration and estimated to average $10 million a
year in recent years. To test the robustness of the possible contribution of mining to the economy, two
scenarios (low and high case) have been constructed. The results of this analysis, projected to the year
2005 and 2010 are:
Scenario       Gross Production       Gross Export Value      Average Annual
Value                                      Investment
1997                 216                    216                     1 
Low 2005             300                    300                     50
Low  2010            340                    310                     50
High 2005            385                    380                     120
High 2010            440                    430                     150
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$        million; FRR=       %
Fiscal impact:
SNIM benefits from a special regime that limits its contribution to the budget to 10% of sales. The mining
code recently approved by the Council of Ministers introduces a fiscal regime for mining consistent with
what is considered international good practice. The new law does not contemplate investment agreements
for the large-scale project providing for rather generous tax exemptions and fiscal holidays. The impact of
the additional production (outside SNIM) on fiscal revenue can be estimated to be in the range of US$5 to
10 million per year, depending on the scenario.
3. Technical:
The project will establish an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help attract and sustain
mining investment. Expert technical assistance will help the Government to avoid mistakes in dealing
with private companies which could result in forgone revenues. The project will help strengthen tax
assessment and collection procedures for statutory royalties, license fees, income, dividend, and other
direct and indirect taxes. The project will also help put into place environmental regulations, procedures,
and monitoring capacity to minimize damage to the environment from mining operations.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The experience and implementation capacity of the sector unit is limited. There
is a major need for capacity building at all levels, including project management. The institutional audit
conducted under the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project identified a major
capacity problem in terms of human resources to implement the planned reform and technical programs.
As a consequence, the project design has incorporated a substantial provision for the hiring of external
consultants (national) which will be in charge of the implementation of specific sub-components. The
project cost estimate includes a budget for incremental operating costs in order to fund these expenses.
The institutional assessment of the project will be monitored through intermediate output indicators and
impact indicators. Intermediate output indicators are designed to track the implementation and the
expected outcomes of the project, and have to be assessed during the lifetime of the project. Impact
indicators are designed to assess the achievement of the final objectives of the project, and their
assessment should be carried out after the closure of the operation.
The accomplishment of the final objectives will imply the achievement of a number of intermediate
outputs and conditions, including:
* Number of months required to make the Mining Cadastre operational.



Page 15
* Number of months required to make the MMI's Environmental Unit operational.
* Average number of days required for granting a mining title.
* Backlog and number of complains of the mining Cadastre.
* Number of maps published.
* Number of consultations to the MIS system.
* Number of Environmental Impact Assessment appraised.
* Number of pilot baseline studies prepared.
Impact indicators will refer to:
* Increase in the number of private operators involved in the different stages of the mining cycle.
* Increase in average annual investments in mining.
* Increase in average annual minerals exports.
* Increase fiscal revenues from mining.
b. Project management: The experience and implementation capacity of the sector unit derives from the
fact that the Coordinator of the Project's Implementation Unit (UCPM) was previously the coordinator of
the mining component of the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project. The UCPM will
be created as an extension of this work, which is being performed in a satisfactory manner. The UCPM
will be strengthened in terms of personnel, to respond to the increased volume of work. It will manage
procurement and supervision of works and consulting services.
5. Social:
Traditionally, assessment of the economic impact of a mining project has been at the level of the national
economy, in terms of fiscal revenues, export earnings, GDP, gross capital investment, value added, and
other parameters. These impacts can be measured using well-developed statistical and other techniques.
However, the socio-cultural impacts of mining on local communities are receiving growing attention, and
the parameters, methodologies, and techniques used to assess these impacts are only now being
developed, in contrast to macro-economic impact assessment. Fundamentally, social assessments involve
identifying for each group of stakeholders the balance of positive and negative impacts, devising numeric
or other objective indicators, and recommending measures to maximize positive outcomes and attenuate
negative effects. Experience has shown that consultation and involvement of local communities in these
assessments is critical and forms the basis for subsequent action programs. However, assessment of the
impacts and involvement of the local community in the consultation process is still at an early stage, due
principally to lack of familiarity with the techniques and practices of social assessment as well as an
inadequate institutional and regulatory framework to provide for such assessments.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   [ ] A   [ ] B    [X] C
The project is a capacity building operation that will not involve direct investment in mining activities. It
should, therefore, be classified as category "C". The project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment by building capacity in the country for environmental management at the national level and
within the mining sector. A comprehensive Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be carried out
as part of the project, including the: (i) review of the present status of the environmental legal, regulatory
and institutional frameworks; (ii) evolution of the mining sector, including a description of most of the
mining projects in operation or under development; (iii) potential physical and socio-economic impacts of
sector activities on the environment and on the communities, including indigenous populations; (iv)
preparation of environmental baseline studies, to assess natural, social and sector background data in
selected areas of each of the participating Provinces; (v) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline
studies aiming at the definition and implementation of consultation procedures, training requirements and
programs, ad hoc institutional strengthening and other related measures.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:



Page 16
The Federation of Industrial and Mining Companies as well as all mining companies active in Mauritania
have been consulted and are active members of fora and committees set up under the Private Sector
Development and Capacity Building Project to reflect on the future orientations of mining policy. The
implementation of the PHRD grant being used for project preparation will allow to bring on board NGO's
and affected communities.
b. Other key stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Mauritania has good geological potential as is evidenced by the interest major intemational mining
companies are showing in the country. However, the Government will encounter difficulty in sustaining
this interest and in ensuring the maximum contribution to economic development unless the major
reforms which have already begun are completed and deepened. If proper regulations and enforcement
mechanisms as well as a competitive environment are put into place, minerals exploration and
development of mines will become self-sustaining to provide a continual revenue stream and other
economic benefits to the country. In addition, the project will attempt to implement a full cost-recovery
system in the Mining Cadastre, and partial recovery at the Minerals Information System and the
Geophysic Airborne Survey. Sustainability will be enhanced through the project's strong emphasis on
institution building, training, human capital development and environmental awareness in the public as
well as private sectors.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Government continued commitment to sector reform   M       Government's program for mining sector
reform is on schedule and was confirmed
and reinforced during the Consultative
Group meeting.
Condensed timing to build-up capacity to manage    M       Preparatory work funded by PHRD grant.
cadastral data by Mining Cadastre Office                   Institutional strengthening will be phased
and prioritized
Reasonably stable world minerals market conditions  M      Although the general trend in mineral
and prices                                                 prices will continue to be flat or down over
the long term, it is expected that as a result
of the project potential investors will find
promising targets that will allow them to
position themselves favorably in the next
minerals investment cycle.
Commitment to honor the provisions of the new      M       Stability clauses in the new code,
Mining Code                                                international arbitrage, guarantees and
insurance.
Continued staff ownership regarding project        M       Provision of necessary staff, resources and
objectives                                                 conditions to effectively implement the
reform to be defined by Institutional
Audit.
Political interference                             M       Project implementation guidelines to be
included in the General Agreement will
aim at minimizing political interference.
Overall Risk Rating     M       I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
A.     Ensure that the following three positions at UCPM are staffed by suitably qualified and
experienced personnel, satisfactory to the Association, namely: (i) the project coordinator; (ii) the
procurement specialist; and (iii) the accountant and financial analyst.
B.    Opening of an account in UM in a commercial bank in Mauritania acceptable to the Association
(the Project Account), and deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $50,000, to
finance the Borrower's contribution for expenditures under the Project not financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit;
C.    Establishment of an appropriate financial management system, certified by the Region's Financial
Management expert, and selection of external auditors for the project acceptable to the Association.
2. Other: Implementation Program
A.    Implementation of the Project in accordance with the procedures, guidelines, timetables and
criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual adopted by the Ministry of Mines and Industry.
B.    Project Monitoring and evaluation: The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of its objectives; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, during the twelfth month following Effectiveness, or such later date as the
borrower and the Association shall agree upon, and thereafter in regular intervals of twelve months until
the completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (A) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and (c) review in a meeting with the Association, 45 days following the submission
of the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, or such later date as the Association shall
request, said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Association views on the matter.
C.    Mid-term review: UCPM will include in the report for the third review meeting referred to in
paragraph B (c), to be referred to as midterm review, in addition to the information furnished as set forth
in subparagraph B (b), a detailed description of progress made towards: (i) the increase of foreign
investments in the mining sector; (ii) the increase of fiscal revenues from the mining sector; (iii) the
implementation of environmental protection activities; (iv) the performance of the mining title registration
system; and (v) the quality and timeliness of the reports furnished.
D.    Environmental studies: The Borrower shall: (a) by April 30, 2002, carry out the studies planned
in the Project; (b) promptly upon completion of the said studies, submit their results to the Association for
its review and comments; (c) take into account the comments and recommendations made by the
Association; and (d) implement the recommendations of the said studies, as agreed and in accordance
with the timetable agreed upon with the Association.



Page 18
E.     Financial Covenants : (a) the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project; (b) the Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred above,
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request; (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
F.     Financial management system and the LACI Initiative: The Borrower shall carry out a time-
bound action plan acceptable to the Association designed to: (a) strengthen its financial management
system for the Project; and (b) develop, not later than thirty months following the Effective Date, or such
later date as the Association shall agree, a system acceptable to the Association for the preparation of
quarterly Project Management Reports, each of which: (i) sets forth actual sources and applications of
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said
report; (ii) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation
targets; and (iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. Upon the
completion of the action plan referred above, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
G.    Plan for the future administration of the sector: The Borrower shall prepare, on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future administration of the Borrower's mining sector; and afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[X] The following items are lacking and are discussed under Credit conditions (Section G):
Accounting Procedures Manual for the financial management of the project.



Page 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manar: Paulo de Sa
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Pete V een
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy



Page 20
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Mauritania: Mining Sector Capacity Building Sector
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
I. Broad-based growth led by   - Approval of at least one mining    Midterm evaluation,        Continued neutral
private, foreign investment    investment by a foreign investor.   Implementation Completion   macroeconomic and sector
2. Improve the performance and  - No backlog of unprocessed    Report (ICR) and continued      policy environment
institutional capacity of      concession applications         monitoring; statistical data
Government to deliver key social,   - Systematic application of EIA
and environmental services
Project Development Objective:                                                                (Objective to Goal)
1. Encourage Private Investment in  - Increase average annual  - Midterm evaluation and ICR   - Stable, long-term politically
Mining                         investments in mining           - Statistical data.             neutral macroeconomic and
- Increase average annual minerals  - Continued monitoring by MMI.   sector policy environment
2. Increase Fiscal Revenues    exports                         - Baseline and monitoring reports.   - Reasonably stable world
- Increase fiscal revenues from  - Continued monitoring by MMI's  minerals market
3. Develop Environmental and   mining                          Environmental Group.            conditions/prices
Social Management for Mining   - Define procedures for EIA for                                 - Environmental control
mining.                                                        procedures are enforceable and
4. Improve Capacity of         - Systematic application of                                     community consultative
Government Institutions        consultative processes                                          processes are applicable.
- Improve geological mapping
coverage of the country
Outputs:                                                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
1. Government institutions in  - Environmental monitoring      - Midterm evaluation and ICR    - Continued commitment to
capacity to provide timely, reliable  system operational 36 months AE.  - Quarterly and annual technical    reform
and transparent administrative  - Baseline data in selected areas  performance reviews         - Timing to build-up Mining
services to the sector.        available 36 months AE.         - Baseline studies reports      Cadastre Office's capacity to
2. Establishment of a modern,  - Cadastral management system   - Mining Cadastre data base.    manage cadastral data
updated and accurate Mining    operational 24 months AE.       - Annual social assessment reports.  according to schedule.
Cadastre.                      - Pilot baseline studies available                              - Commitment to honor the
3. Improved social awareness,  36 months AE.                                                   provisions of the new Mining
conditions for consultative    - Consultative procedures                                       Code.
processes and community        implemented at end of project.                                  - Reasonably stable world
participation in new mining    - MIS in place 24 months AE.                                    minerals market
projects.                                                                                      conditions/prices
4. Minerals Information System
(MIS)
Project Components/Sub-        Inputs: (budget for each                                        (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2 for   component)
project description)
I. Capacity Building, including  1. Capacity Building: US$2.55  Contracts, procurement records,    - Line staff continued
1. 1. Institutional Reform:    million                         monitoring reports, technical and    environmental/social awarenes
Implementation of the new       1.1. Institutional Reform: US$2.12  training performance evaluation    related to mining
institutional model: staffing,  million                        reports, manuals, maps.         - Continued commitment to
organization, procedures, financial                                                           reform
resources; equipment and works:                                Quarterly and annual reports,   - Staff stability
upgrading of facilities; seminars,                             contracts and procurement records,  - Continued project ownership
promotional publications.                                      financial reports and audits.   - No political interference
- Satisfactory performance by
1.2. Mining Cadastre and                                                                       contracted consultants.
Registry System: equipment,     1.2. Mining Cadastre and Registry
upgrading of facilities;       System: US$ 0.43 million
implementation of the Cadastre.
2. Geologic Infrastructure,                                    Contracts, procurement records,
including:                     2. Geologic Infrastructure: US$  monitoring reports, technical and
2.1. Geological Mapping:        10.45 million                  training performance evaluation  - Line staff continued
preparation of a complete      2.1. Geological Mapping/MIS:    reports, manuals, maps.         environmental/social awarenes



Page 21
coverage of the country with   US$6.50 million                                                related to mining
digitalized maps, and setting up of                            Quarterly and annual reports,  - Continued commitment to
Minerals Information System:                                   contracts and procurement records,  reform
upgrading of the information                                   financial reports and audits.  - Staff stability
system; upgrading of facilities;                                                               - Continued project ownership
training; and documentation.                                                                   - No political interference
2.2. Geophysic Airborne Survey:                                                                - Satisfactory performance by
aeromagnetic and radiometric                                                                  contracted consultants.
survey of two of the most      2.2. Geophysic Airborne Survey:
promising mineral provinces of  US$2.85 million
Mauritania, over an area of
200,000 km2, in preparation for
geological mapping.
2.3. Supervision and publication
of maps: contract supervision;
printing of maps.
2.3. Supervision/Publication: US$
3. Environmental Management     1.10 million                   Contracts, procurement records,
System-EMS/ Environmental                                      monitoring reports, technical and
Control and Assessment, including                             training performance evaluation
environmental and socio-economic  3. Environmental Management  reports, manuals, maps.
baseline studies, development of    System-EMS: US$1.50 million                                - Line staff continued
consultative procedures and                                    Quarterly and annual reports,  environmental/social awarenes
assessment criteria, environmental                             contracts and procurement records,  related to mining
management capacity building and                               financial reports and audits.   - Continued commitment to
training;                                                                                      reform
and implementation of the EMS.                                                                 - Staff stability
- Continued project ownership
4. Project Coordination,                                       Contracts, procurement records,    - No political interference
Monitoring and Evaluation                                      monitoring reports, technical and    - Satisfactory performance by
- Hire and supervise staff                                     training performance evaluation  contracted consultants.
- Manage procurement                                           reports, manuals, maps.
- Contract accounting and auditing
- Prepare quarterly and annual  4. Project Coordination: US$1.00   Quarterly and annual reports,
reports and annual operation plans   million                   contracts and procurement records,  - Line staff continued
- Monitor progress and evaluate                                financial reports and audits.   environmentaUsocial awarenes
results.                                                                                       related to mining
- Continued commitment to
reform
- Staff stability
- Continued project ownership
- No political interference
- Satisfactory performance by
contracted consultants.
AE = after effectiveness



Page 22
Annex 2
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Capacity Building of MMI's mining agencies - US$ 2.55 million
(16.5% of total Project costs).
The broad capacity building program was designed in the context of an institutional audit carried
out under the Private sector Development and Capacity Building project, as part of the policy to
reduce the role of the State and to adapt MMI to better-defined functions, eliminating widespread
overlapping of functions and modemizing its capacity to administer the sector. The
recommendations of the audit were reviewed during appraisal and resulted in a new organization
where the mandates of the institutions have been redefined to take into account the clarification of
the respective roles of such agencies, of the private sector, and their inter-relationships. The
institutional model and a detailed action program, also reviewed during appraisal, will be
implemented under the proposed Project. Two sub-components are included:
1.1. Institutional Reform - US$2.12 million (13.7% of totalTProject costs). This program aims at
specifically adjusting the institutional model defined under the Private Sector Development and
Capacity Building project, as reviewed during appraisal, to take into account sector reform and
the skills required for a smooth implementation of the project. The new organization will be
implemented through a participative process (workshops and seminars) and on-the-job training.
Work will include the detailed and ad hoc design of the institutional model, including
organization, staffing, budget and identification of long-term financial sources for core
responsibilities; the setting up and implementation of efficient work procedures; and on-the-job
training of staff in policy, legal and management matters; participation in Seminars abroad and
organization of seminars and roundtables; in the country; and preparation of promotional material
on the mining sector in Mauritania. Provisions include the financing of international and local
consultants, of incremental operating costs related to travels and to training, of office
rehabilitation, of purchase of basic core office equipment, of vehicles and of legal and technical
literature, and of publication of information and legal and administrative procedures.
1.2. Mining Cadastre and Registry System - US$0.43 million (2.8% of total Project costs). A
priority objective of the Government's mining sector policy is to establish a well-informed, and
interactive cadastral system. Based on the audit carried out under Private sector Development and
Capacity Building project, the proposed Project will finance the creation of a proper mining
cadastre as an autonomous institution under the Ministry of Mines. The cadastre will provide
reliable information about the precise location of mining rights in the territory. The procedures
required in order to apply the cadastre process will be transparent, public, of general application
and non-discretionary. In addition, the cadastre will cover both the mining rights requested and
granted after it becomes effective, and already existing ones as well as the ones that have been
simply requested. Hence the cadastral procedure will have stages, instances and resources to
allow owners of acquired mining rights to adequately defend their rights in accordance with the
provisions of the Mining Code. Older rights which are not inserted into the new cadastre must be
legally canceled in order for the information resulting from the cadastre to be correct and useful
in practice. Work under the sub-component includes the purchase of modem hardware and
software, vehicles, the provision of adequate facilities for the cadastre and registry functions, the



Page 23
implementation of the computerized Mining Cadastre System, and on-the-job and external
training.
Project Component 2 - Upgrade of Geologic Infrastructure - US$ 10.45 million (67.4% of
total Project costs)
2. 1. Geological Mapping of MauritanialMinerals Information System - US$6.5 million (41.9% of
total Project costs). The main goal of this sub-component is to provide the basic and reliable
geological information necessary to attract investments and plan sectoral and cross-sectoral
activities. In order to achieve this goal, the sub-component would support the systematic
geological mapping of previously unmapped or inadequately mapped areas, and publish
professional quality packages of new as well as existing, but previously unavailable, data and
maps. It would strengthen and modernize MMI's geological map production through the
development of remote sensing data processing and digitalized map processing and editing
capacity, and train geologists on-the-job in dynamic and modern field mapping and map
production techniques. The sub-component would also support the creation at the DMG of an
integrated information data bank, the Minerals Information System (MIS), which would
systematize the collection and interpretation of sector information into a data base, making use of
state of the art technology to gather, store and provide the information to interested parties in a
timely fashion. The work would aim at the digitized production and publishing of maps covering
the entire territory at the 1:500,000 scale, plus about fifteen 1:200,000 scale maps, covering the
promising but remote Northern area of Mauritania, and another 15 covering priority areas in the
rest of the country, representing about 35% of the total area. The bulk of the work will be carried
out by MMI's permanent staff, under the guidance of international consultants and the support of
specialized national consultants. This sub-component includes the following activites: (i)
financing of international and local consultants, installation of the LAN and connection to
Internet, communications fees; (ii) provision of equipment and software, including, i.a., hardware
and software specifically dedicated to data treatment and map processing equipment,
communications devices and accessories; (iii) some rehabilitation work, in particular network
cabling and connections, up-grading of electrical supply and computer security in government
offices will be provided; (iv) purchase of geological documentation and data and satellite images;
and (v) a training program focused on information, data bases and network management, and on
the implementation and use of the MIS. Specific on-the-job training is also included. The Project
will finance incremental operating costs and subscriptions to various local and provincial
electronic databases, and Internet.
2.2. Geophysics Airborne Survey - US$2.85 million (18.4% of total Project costs). More
information than basic geology is required to develop a specific data base for use by the private
mining enterprises. The objective of the Geophysics Airborne Survey is to efficiently furnish
essential geological information of public domain to private investors. This is an important
service customarily maintained by the responsible Government agencies in most countries, to
allow them to keep a register of the country's mineral resources and to attend the needs of the
private sector. There is ample evidence that mining investors prefer to work in countries with well
developed geological data systems than in countries with poor geological data. The Bank has
been supporting the acquisition of geological and mining data in other countries , including
Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, Guinea and Tanzania. The specific objective of the sub-component
would be to support the mineral resource assessment of regions where mining potential is deemed
to be high, bur poorly defined. In view of the high costs of such surveys, several alternatives have
been considered, including reduction of the geographical area to be covered, the density of the
data and the scope of the field work. This activity would provide valuable information for the
geological mapping component (with which resources such as satellite images, remote sensing



Page 24
processing and digitalization and interpretation facilities would be shared), although the later can
be executed separately. The sub-component would provide about 200,000 line-km of airborne
sunrey (magnometry and radiometry) over the Northern area.
2.3. Sub-component supervision and publication of maps - US$1.10 million (7.1 % of total
Project costs). This sub-component includes the following activities: (i) financing of international
consultants, for the supervision and the integration of the two previous sub-components; (ii)
processing, and printing of the geological maps produced on digital form under sub-component
2.1.
Project Component 3 - Environment Management System (EMS) - US$ 1.5 million (9.7%
of total project cost)
The general objective of this Component is to set up a preventive environmental protection
system for mining activities. This system should bring together the mining administration unit
with other public and private environment entities, namely the Ministry of Rural Development
and the Environment. The Component will: (i) carry out pilot environmental baseline studies and
socio-economic baseline studies over selected areas as a basis for development of methodology
and capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and economic impacts of mining on local
communities, and develop consultation and participatory procedures; (ii) support the creation and
strengthen the capacity of an Environment Unit at DMG for the monitoring and enforcement of
environmental regulations, and the setting up of procedures for the processing of Environmental
Impact Statements in mining; and (iii) develop a data basis for the Environmental Management
System (EMS). It includes: training of staff in environmental and socio-economic management
related to mining; provision of infrastructure, field and data processing (hardware and software)
equipment. Major activities are as follows:
(i) Environmental Baseline Studies and Assessment of Socio-Economic Impacts of Mining
Investments: Baseline studies will be carried out to obtain comprehensive information regarding
the existing natural and social conditions of a given area, while assessing, at the same time, the
likely socio-economic impacts of potential mining developments on the local community. This
Program will: (i) provide the specific information and data for the formulation, establishment and
adaptation of realistic environmental norms and standards, and to support decision-making
regarding the location of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; (ii) develop
multidisciplinary research methodologies to be applied in environmental analysis; (iii) strengthen
the research capacity and human resources in environmental issues related to mining activities;
and (iv) develop methodologies for the assessment of the socio-economic impacts of mining on
the local community, through the development of participatory approaches. Work will make
selective use of existing data from available sources, through field and source compilation,
revision, update, and comprehensive interpretation of such data. Such work will include, i.a., (i)
the study and determination of water resources: watershed areas, rain statistics, resource
modeling, and water sampling and analysis (results will also be documented in and be compatible
with Geographical Information System (GIS) being strengthened in the MIS); (ii) evaluation of
the areas' environmental vulnerability; and (iii), determination of mining impacts regarding
existing or past operations; (iv) identification of the likely social, cultural, macro and micro
economic, financial, fiscal, and other impacts of mining; (v) identification of main groups of local
and regional stakeholders in the development of a mining project; (vi) selection of statistical and
other performance indicators to objectively assess the costs and benefits of the impacts for each
stakeholder; and (vii) evaluation and assessment of the key questions and issues to be addressed.
These studies will serve as templates for subsequent work in other areas. A series of training
programs and seminars will be conducted locally, for public and private sector participants. This



Page 25
training will focus on consultation procedures and continual monitoring and evaluation of socio-
financing of international and local consultancy services contracts.
(ii) Creation of an Environmental Unit at DMG: This Program aims at supporting the creation and
strengthening of the capacity of a mining Environmental Unit at DMG as a coordinating unit
responsible for the development of an adequate and consistent environmental regulatory and
monitoring framework, in the context of the country's Environmental Charter. This Unit would
also deal with the supervision of the base line and socio-economic studies to be carried out under
the Project. Provisions include the financing of international and local consultants, administrative
support, training and minor purchases of equipment (office equipment, hardware and software).
(iii) Environmental Management System data base: This Program is specifically directed at the
implementation of a mining environmental information system, a data base inter-related to those
existing in other line ministries to help administer environment licensing procedures as well as
compile and process base line and monitoring data . The subcomponent includes equipment
which will upgrade office facilities, and consultant services to implement the system and provide
training.
Project Component 4 - Project Implementation Unit (UCPM) - US$ 1.0 million (6.4% of
total project cost)
The Project was prepared with the strongly committed support of the coordinating team of the
mining component of the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building which will be
strengthened and continue to operate throughout the implementation of the Mining Sector
Capacity Building Project as the Project Implementation Unit (UCPM). The UCPM will link with
MMI's line agencies, and during implementation will monitor, supervise and provide
management control, by Components and Sub-components, and for the Project as a whole. The
UCPM will be strengthened accordingly, and will manage procurement - including all contracting
works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, the contractual relationship with the Bank
and the Project's overall administration and financial management - which includes accounting,
reporting, managing the Project's Credit Account and its other funding. UCPM staff will attend
Bank training seminars. The UCPM will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank
quarterly reports dealing with Project implementation, and for contracting under Terms of
Reference acceptable to the Bank, the yearly audits of the Project including the timely submission
of such audit reports to the Bank. The Project will finance the contracting within the UCPM of a
General Coordinator, a procurement expert, an accountant/financial expert, and administrative
support staff. Funding is provided for the unit's operating costs, as well as some minor additional
office equipment.



Page 26
Annex 3
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                Local    Foreign       Total
-----------------US $ thousand--------------
1. Capacity Building of MMI's Mining Agencies                      1250         1120       2370
1.1. Institutional Reform                                    1005          975       1980
Works                                                      205                     205
Equipment and consumables                                  105         250         355
Consultant services                                        360         280         640
Training and seminars                                      205         445         650
Incremental operating costs                                130                     130
1.2. Mining Cadastre                                          245          145        390
Equipment and consumables                                   85                      85
Consultant Services                                        150         110         260
Training and seminars                                       10          35          45
2. Geologic Infrastructure                                             0        9735       9735
2.1. Cartography / MIS                                           0        6060       6060
Consultant Services- Northern area                                     1860       1860
Consultant Services - Southern area                                   4200        4200
2.2. Airborne Geophysics                                         0        2650       2650
Works                                                                 2650       2650
2.3. Supervision and publication                                 0        1025        1025
Consultant services                                          0         840         840
Works (publication)                                                    185         185
3. Environment Information System (EIS)                               95        1300       1395
Consultant Services                                         95        1300        1395
4. Mining Project Implementation Unit (UCPM)                        800          130        930
Works (rehabilitation)                                      45           0          75
Equipment and consumables                                   55          85         140
Consultant services                                        455                     455
Training and seminars                                                   45          45
Incremental operating costs                                245                     215
Total Baseline Costs                                               2145        12285      14430
Physical Contingencies                                            115         690         805
Price Contingencies                                                           225         265
Total Project Cost                                                 2300        13200      15500



Page 27
Annex 4
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Summary of benefits and costs:
Mining in Mauritania has consisted essentially of two main products, iron ore (for which
production started in 1961) and copper (1970). The gross value of minerals production in
Mauritania is extremely dependent on iron ore, exploited by the state-owned enterprise SNIM,
that has traditionally accounted for one-third to one-half of the country's exports. Gold recovery
from the Akjoujt copper mine tailings was drawn to a close in 1996 as the tailings stockpile was
depleted. Plans to restart mining of the deposit on a large-scale basis have been adversely affected
by the fall in metal prices. Gypsum and salt are also produced in the country. Other than iron ore
and the Akjoujt copper/gold project, there are two major short-term exploration targets in
Mauritania: (i) gold, where principal activities by companies like Australia's General Gold and
France's LaSource, have been focused on the Tassiast, Tijirit, and Inchiri regions; and (ii)
diamonds, where Australia's Ashton Mining and Canada's Rex Diamonds have obtained several
permits in the Tassiat and R'Gueibat shield. In addition, an increasing number of foreign
companies have established or are considering to develop exploration programs in the country
which could result in the discovery of new major deposits.
Mauritania's total exports in 1997 were about US$ 500 million, of which more than 40%
corresponded to iron ore exports (equivalent to US$216 million). Most of the foreseeable
expansion is in metallic minerals (gold and base metals) and diamonds, and the majority of this
production will be exported and generate foreign exchange. Average annual investments in
mining outside SNIM are essentially limited to exploration, and can be estimated to have been
about US$ 10 million in 1997. While investments in exploration have expanded considerably in
recent years, they are still well bellow what might be expected given Mauritania's mineral
potential. The project will establish an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help
attract and sustain mining investment and increase exports. It will help to position Mauritania to
fully benefit from the next surge in minerals investment brought by the recovery in the cycle,
expected in two years.
The revised mining code and the reforms being supported by the proposed project will put
Mauritania on the path of the intemational best practices being introduced by the most advanced
mining countries of Latin America, and make the country a benchmark in mining sector reform
for other countries in the Region. The fiscal reform will aim at introducing a fiscal regime for
mining consistent with what is considered international good practice. The project will help
strengthen tax assessment and collection procedures for statutory royalties, license fees, income,
dividend, and other direct and indirect taxes. The impact of the project on fiscal revenue can be
estimated to be in the range of US$15 to 30 million per year, depending on the scenario.



Page 28
The following projections were prepared to test the robustness of the possible contributions of
mining to the economy to the year 2010.
Table A.4 - 1: Mauritania Mineral Production and Export Projections by 2010 (US$ million)
Scenario      Gross Production       Gross Export Value       Average Annual
Value                                       Investment
1997              216                     216                     10
Low 205              300                    300                     5 0
Low2010              340                    310                     50
........................ ..... . ............   .   .........   .......   .......... .... .._. _. . ........   ... .   __. __..._  ...... ...
High 2005            385                    380                     120
High 2010            440                    430                     150
Other economic benefits of mining include the development of support industries (manufacture of
mining equipment, provision of consulting services, development of capital and commercial
markets), transfer of technology and management know-how, and limited direct job creation.
These benefits have not been quantified. The project will also help put into place environmental
regulations, procedures, and monitoring capacity to minimize damage to the environment from
mining operations.
Main Assumptions:
Low Case Scenario. SNIM's iron ore exports decrease to around US$ 150 million per year, as a
combined effect of lower prices and progressive depletion of high grade ore. Akjoujt project's
comissioning delayed until 2005. A small gold mine begins production by 2005 and another one
by 2010; a diamond mine is commissioned by 2008.
High Case Scenario. SNIM's iron ore exports remain at the US$ 200 million per year level, as a
result of a new pellet plant. Akjoujt is commissioned by 2003. A small gold mine begins
production by 2005, a second one by 2005, and a third one by 2010; a diamond mine is
commissioned in 2005, and another one in 2010. Industrial minerals production for the domestic
market reaches about US$ 5 million by 2010.
1. Iron Ore- Current reported production: 11.5 million tons (1998). Low Case Scenario: average
iron ore prices decreasing to about US$ 17.5 per ton (i.e. 1996's levels) by 2001, and remaining
at that level until 2010; High Case Scenario: average iron ore prices decreasing to about US$ 17.5
per ton by 2003, and increasing to US$ 23 per ton between 2005 and 2010; pellet plant
commissioned by 2005, with an annual capacity of 4 million tons per year.
2. Copper- Current reported production: none. Low Case Scenario: Akjoujt delayed 4 years;
copper prices at today's levels (US$ 0.80 per pound); High Case Scenario: Akjoujt delayed 4
years; copper prices recovering to about US$ 1.00 per pound.
3. Gold- Current reported production: none. Low Case Scenario: Average annual investment: $10
million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 5 million in 2005, and $ 10 million by 2010;High Case
Scenario: Average annual investment: $20 million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 10 million in
2005, $ 25 million by 2010.
4. Diamonds - Current reported production: none; Low Case Scenario: Average annual
investment: $ 15 million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 10 million in 2007, and $ 20 million by
2010; High Case Scenario: Average annual investment: $ 40 million (2000-2010); Annual
Exports: $ 10 million in 2005, and $ 50 million by 2010.



Page 29
Annex 5
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ thousands, 1999 base year)
Implementation Period                      Operational Period
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Project Costs
Investment Costs                   300    2100    6000    4500    2200
Recurrent Costs                     30       95       95       90       90
Total                              330    2195    6095    4590    2290
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                            94       96       98       97       95
Government                            6       4        2        3        5
Total                              100      100      100      100      100
Main assumptions:



Page 30
Annex 6
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A.    General
Goods and works financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996,
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultancy services financed by IDA will be
procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The Project
Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Mines and Industry, the executing unit for the project, will
be responsible for procurement. This unit will be reinforced to ensure that it is adequately staffed
to manage the procurement arrangements. A capacity assessment will be carried out by the
procurement specialist of the Resident Mission under the supervision of AFTS2, before
negotiations, an action plan addressing deficiencies in the implementing unit's capacity to
administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way will be addressed as necessary and its
implementation would be a condition of credit effectiveness. At negotiations, assurances will be
obtained from the Government that the agreed action plan will be implemented and the following
procurement arrangements will apply for the implementation of the project. In addition, a General
Procurement Notice (GPN) has been transmitted to IDA for publication in the United Nations
Development Business to advertise for major consulting assignments and goods contracts. This
notice is to be updated every year during the execution of the project until all the contracts have
been procured. Procurement methods and prior review arrangements are indicated in Tables A
and B of this Annex.
B.    Works and Goods
Works. An airbome geophysical survey at an estimated cost of US$2,850,000 will be
procured according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB), after a pre-qualification process.
Other works to be carried out under the project consist of (i) the printing of maps, notices and
promotion brochures and (ii) the rehabilitation of small office and buildings. In view of the small
cost of each of these contracts, they will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures for an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Goods. Goods consisting of vehicles, instrumentation, field and office equipment and
furniture as well as smaller quantities of office equipment costing US$30,000 or more but less
than US$100,000 for an aggregate amount US$380,000 will be procured under NCB procedures.
Other smaller items of office equipment, furniture, training materials, and office supplies and
documentation purchase costing less than US$30,000 per contract for an aggregate of
US$240,000 will be procured on the basis of national or international shopping procedures
(minimum of 3 quotations from eligible suppliers).
Prior Review Arrangements. Goods and works contracts costing more than US$100,000
per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subjected to post
review.



Page 31
C.    Consultancy Services and Training
Recruitment offirms. Consultancy services for studies, technical assistance and training
requiring the recruitment of firms will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Most of
these services, including (i) one package for the preparation of a geological synthesis, mineral
resources assessments and development of a related geographic information system; (ii) the
technical supervision of larger geological and geophysical contracts; (iii) the contracting of
assistance in institutional capacity building; and (iv) environmental and socio-economic baseline
studies, will be recruited on the basis of the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method for
an estimated aggregate amount of US$7,500,000. Exceptions to the QCBS method will include
the use of single sourcing for the second package for the preparation of a geological synthesis,
and mineral resources assessments, for an estimated aggregate amount of US$1,800,000. The
reason for accepting single source is based on the fact that the task represents a natural
continuation of previous work carried out by French scientific institutions. BRGM has access to
previous works carried out by them during decades, which will result in substantial savings of
money compared with a situation where a similar task would have to be performed by
competitors from other countries. It would also help to generate a grant from the French
assistance program which will also contribute for the Government of Mauritania to a substantial
reduction of the total amount of borrowed money. For contracts based on a shortlist of
consultants estimated to cost US$ 50,000 or less per contract, the shortlist may consist entirely of
national consultants if a minimum of three qualified ones are available.
Recruitment of Individuals. Individuals will be recruited in cases where a firm is not
needed. Such individuals will be selected and recruited on the basis of qualification and
experience in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Prior Review Arrangements. All procurement documents for consulting contracts with
firms for amounts exceeding US$100,000 per contract selected on the basis of a shortlist and any
contract involving individual consultants exceeding US$50,000 per contract will be subject to
prior review by IDA. In addition, for consultant contracts with firms exceeding US$100,000 per
contract, the technical evaluation report will also be required by IDA for prior review. All other
contracts will be subjected to post-review.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C). The credit would be disbursed over a period of
60 months (the Project completion date would be June 30, 2004 and the Credit closing date is
December 31, 2004), as follows: (i) 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent for contract works; (ii)
100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local expenditures for goods; (iii) 100 percent for
consultancies; (iv) 100 percent for training and seminars; and (v) 70 percent for incremental
operating costs. Disbursement of Credit proceeds would be made against five categories (base
costs): (i) contract works (US$2.70 million); (ii) goods (US$0.55 million); (iii) consulting
contracts (US$9.65 million); (iv) training (US$ 0.75); and (v) incremental operating costs
(US$0.30 million). Unallocated contingency allowances amount to about 7 percent of total
project base costs.
Retroactive Financing. Eligible expenditures incurred four months before the actual
signature of the Credit Agreement would be retroactively financed up to a maximum equivalent
of US$0.5 million, about 3% of the Credit value. Retroactive finance would reimburse start-up



Page 32
activities that are essential for timely project implementation, namely office rehabilitation at
DMG and essential equipment and software for the Cadastre and the Minerals Information
System.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Disbursements will be made against Statement of
Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring the Bank's prior review. Therefore
disbursements for all contracts for: goods and civil works of less than US$150,000; consulting
services, by firms and individuals of less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively; and all
incremental operating expenses and training, would be made on the basis of SOEs and certified
by the UCPM. SOE statements will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
Special account: Payments from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the
UCPM from a Special Account. The Special Account would be maintained in US dollars in a
commercial bank selected by the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized
allocation, sufficient for about four months of financeable expenditures, would be US$ 1 million;
however, the initial allocation would be limited to US$0.5 million until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into the Bank shall be equal to or exceed SDR 1 million. The Special
Account would be managed by the UCPM which would be responsible for preparing
disbursement requests. These requests would be submitted monthly or when the Special Account
has been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Replenishment of
the Special Account would follow Bank procedures. Disbursements will be made under the
authorized signature from a designated representative of the Borrower. The Special Account
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Page 33
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Works                         2,850     500                                      3,350
(IDA)                         (2,460)   (450)                                   (2,910)
2. Goods                                   380         240                        620
(IDA)                                   (380)      (220)                      (600)
3. Consultancy services                                  10,360                    10,360
(IDA)                                                (10,360)                  (10,360)
4. Training                                            805                        805
(IDA)                                               (805)                     (805)
5. Incremental operating cost                          365                        365
(IDA)                                               (325)                     (325)
Total                          2,850     880          11,770                    15,500
(2,460)   (830)       (11,710)                   (15,000)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/IDA
credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table
A, where applicable).



Page 34
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                 (including
Expenditure Category                                                               contingencies)
QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS      CQ      Other   N.B1.F.
A. Firms             7,420                                       1,800                 9,220
(7,420)                                     (1,800)              (9,220)
B. Individuals                                           1,140                         1,140
(1,140)                      (1,140)
Total  7,420                                1,140    1,800               10,360
(7,420)                             (1,140)  (1,800)            (10,360)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.



Page 35
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                                US $ millions
1. Works
> 100        ICB                              All/2.8
30-100    NCB                              None
<30          Price quotations               None
(shopping)
2. Goods
>100         ICB                              n.a.
30-100     NCB                            None
<30          Shopping                       None
3. Services
Firms                          > 100                                        All/10.4
< 100                                        None
Individuals                     > 50                                         All/0.8
< 50                                        None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      14.0
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 36
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Amount of the Credit
Allocated
Category                  (Expressed in SDR     % of Expenditures to be
equivalent)             financed
1. Geophysical and civil works              2,.000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
2. Equipment                                  400,000         100% of foreign
Expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
3. Consultant's services                    7,100,000         100%
4. Training                                   550,000         100%
5. Incremental operating costs                250.000         70%
6. Unallocated                                800,000
Total       11,100,000



Page 37
Annex 7
Note Technique sur la Gestion Financiere du Projet
1.    Pendant 1'evaluation du projet, la mission a procedd  A une appreciation du systeme de
gestion financiere qui est en train d'etre mis en place par l'Unite de Coordination du Projet
Minier (UCPM): budget, comptabilite, contr6le interne, audit et etablissement de rapports
financiers. Le systeme defini s'inspire de celui en place au Projet de Renforcement des Capacites
de Developpement du Secteur Priv6 (PRCDSD) qui a A son sein une composante de renforcement
du secteur minier.
2.     Enseignements du PRCDSD. La gestion administrative, comptable et financiere du
PRCDSP est assuree par un agent comptable. Le systeme comptable est un systeme du type
entreprise, le traitement des donnees comptables est informatise (logiciel comptable SAARI), et
le traitement de la paie est realise sur le logiciel de paie du meme fournisseur SAARI. Les autres
operations sont rdalisees sur le Tableur EXCEL. II s'agit notamment de l'Ptablissements des etats
certifi6s de depenses et de la preparation des tableaux des immobilisations et du suivi des
categories budgetaires. Le plan comptable utilise pr6voit une codification generale et une
codification analytique. Le dernier rapport de l'auditeur sur les procedures a conclu que les
operations courantes sont correctement effectuees, et que les pieces justificatives presentent le
caractere de documents probants.
3.    Recommandations pour Pamnlioration de ce systm _. La mission estime que le systeme
du PRCDSP est un bon exemple que le PRISM peut adopter. La mission a fait les observations
suivantes afin de rendre ce systeme plus performant:
*  le choix definitif du logiciel ne devrait 8tre fait qu'apres l'6tude a realiser par le cabinet
d'expertise qui fait la mise en place du systeme. L'UCPM peut par contre informer le
cabinet des avantages comparatifs du logiciel SAARI, notamment en lui demandant
d'avoir des rencontres avec le PRCDSP dans le cadre de son etude.
  La mission a note dans d'autres projets de la Banque Mondiale que le systeme SAARI
presente quelques faiblesses, qu'il faut attenuer. En effet, le systeme conduit l'equipe de
la comptabilite A effectuer de nombreuses operations sur tableurs pour le suivi du compte
credit en DTS ainsi que les engagements et depenses par composantes. II est par
consequent indispensable au niveau du parametrage du logiciel, qu'une attention particu-
liere soit accordee sur ce point. L'UCPM doit s'assurer que la codification analytique
permet d'obtenir le suivi par categorie budgetaire et par composante. Le logiciel doit
egalement 8tre mis au point de maniere a obtenir automatiquement les etats financiers.
*  La Banque a mis en place l'Initiative pour l'Amenagement de l'Administration des Pr8ts
(Loan Administration Change Initiative, LACI). Cette initiative vise a integrer tout ce qui
se rapporte au projet - comptabilite, passation des marches, gestion des contrats,
decaissement et audit, aussi bien qu'avancement physique - dans en seul document : le
Rapport de Gestion du Proj et. Afin de prdparer le passage futur du projet a ce systeme,
comme c'est le souhait de la Banque Mondiale, le parametrage du logiciel doit prevoir la
preparation de situations trimestrielles qui fournissent ce genre d'information.
L'Emprunteur et l'IDA se sont accordes sur le calendrier pour la mise en place de tous le
elements necessaires A la mise en place 6ventuelle du systeme LACI (Annexe 7.A). Ce
calendrier prevoit sa mise en place A compter du 3 1eme mois suivant la mise en vigueur du
credit. Le nouveau mode de decaissement necessitera la remise des rapports trimestriels



Page 38
suivants: (i) rapport financier; (ii) rapport de contr6le des resultats physiques; et (iii)
rapport de contr6le des procedures de passation de marche.
Enfin le systeme A mettre en place doit permettre un passage adequat a l'an 2000.
4.     Selection de la firme pour la mise en place des capacites durables de programmation
budgetaire, de gestion du personnel, de gestion du patrimoine, de gestion comptable et financiere
et de la gestion des marches. La mission a fait connaitre sa non-objection aux termes de reference,
au projet de lettre d'invitation et A la liste restreinte. La Societe Mauritanienne d'Etudes et de
Comptabilite SOMECOMPT a ete retenue pour cette prestation. Ce bureau mettra en place:
*  Un systeme informatise qui comportera des modules de: (i) comptabilite generale; (ii)
comptabilite budgetaire; (iii) gestion du personnel; (iv) gestion du patrimoine
(immobilisations et stocks); et (v) gestion de marche.
*  Un manuel de procedures administratives, comptables et financieres qui comportera: (i)
les procedures comptables; (ii) les procedures de gestion du personnel; (iii) les
procedures d'achat; (iv) les procedures de gestion et de suivi des marches; (v) les
procedures de gestion de patrimoine (immobilisations et stocks); (vi) les procedures
d'elaboration et de suivi du budget; et (vii) les procedures de gestion des financements.
*  un programme de formation sur l'outil informatique et sur le manuel de procedures. Le
bureau assurera la formation apres avis du gouvernement et de la Banque sur le manuel et
le programme de formation. Toutes ces activites doivent etre realisees en fonction du
chronogramme presente en Annexe 7.A. L'Emprunteur s'assurera du respect de ces
delais, la presentation du manuel de procedures qui garantisse un systeme comptable et
financier etant une des conditions necessaires pour la negociation du credit.
*  Des prestations supplementaires par rapport A la proposition technique et financiere du
Consultant s'averent indispensables et donc feront l'objet d'un avenant. Cette mission
consiste a superviser I'agent comptable de l'UCPM dans la preparation des etats
budgetaires et financiers trimestriels (r6vision de comptes et etablissements des etats).
L'objectif etant qu'a la fin de la premiere annee d'assistance, donc de formation de la part
du consultant, le comptable soit entierement autonome pour l'ensemble de ses fonctions.
La mission estime le budget de cette mission a environ une semaine/homme par trimestre.
5.     Selection de l'auditeur financier. La mission a fait connaitre sa non-objection aux termes
de reference. Par contre, elle a souhaite qu'on relance la procedure de selection, car dans la liste
restreinte proposee, seulement un cabinet sur les trois remplissait les exigences de l'IDA en
matiere d'audit. En effet, I'audit doit etre effectues par "les cabinets qui ont des liens directs avec
des grands cabinets intemationaux (qui font notamment l'objet de contr6le de qualite du groupe)
ou qui sont membres A part entiere d'organisations professionnelles internationales d'audit." Afin
de respecter l'ech6ance prevue pour les negociations, la nouvelle consultation doit suivre le
calendrier presente en Annexe 7.B. La selection des auditeurs du projet est une condition de mise
en vigueur du projet.
6.     Specialiste  de  passation  de  marches  et agent comptable.  Conformement A
l'organigramme propose, ces deux personnes doivent etre recrutees dans les meilleurs delais, afin
qu'ils puissent suivre les formations que va assurer le cabinet charge de la mise en place du
systeme administratif, comptable et financier. La mission a fait des propositions des termes de
references.



Page 39
Annexe 7.A - Plan d'action pour la Gestion Financiere du Projet
1- Manuel de Procedures administratives, comptables et financieres
Actions                              Dates       Observations
Transmission par le cabinet du draft du  15 avril 99   A suivre par le Coordinateur
manuel
Transmission du Manuel de Procedures  15 avril 99   La Coordinateur s'assurera en liaison avec
par  le  Coordinateur  au  differents            les autorites competentes nationales de la
partenaires:                                     bonne mise en forme du document, et
IDA/Ministere/Composantes                        procedera a la reproduction et a la
distribution du document aux partenaires.
-   Commentaires   des   differents 22 avril 99   Le coordinateur formalisera les
partenaires:                                     commentaires des differents partenaires et
UCPM/Ministere/Composantes/IDA                 reagira aupres du Consultant pour
incorporer les revisions qui s'avereraient
necessaires.
Transmission de la version finale apres 30 avril 99
prise en compte par le Consultant des
differents commentaires, le cas echeant.
Programme de formation sur le manuel 30 avril 99
de procedures
Formation de 1'ensemble du personnel  15 mai 99
sur le manuel de procedures
Evaluation des capacit_s de gestion  30    mois  IDA
financiere, de passation de marche et apres mise
d'execution physique du projet.      en vigueur.
Mise en place 6ventuelle du LACI     33    mois Emprunteur/IDA
apres mise
en vigueur.
2 - Systeme informatique
Actions                                    Dates        Observations
Transmission de la proposition technique et 31 mars 99
financiere  du consultant pour le choix du
logiciel
Avis de l'UCPM  (l'UCPM  demendera au  05 avril 99
prealable l'avis de l'IDA )
Installation du logiciel                   30 avril 99
Transmission du programme de formation sur 31 mai 99
le logiciel
Formation sur le logiciel                  15 juin 99



Page 40
ANNEXE 7.B - Plan d'action pour la Selection du Cabinet charge de I'Audit Financier du projet
Examen par  Ouverture   Non-objection
Accord IDA  Lancement  Ouverture  I'IDA du        des offres   IDA sur
sur Lettre   de la       des offres  rapport     financieres  proposition
invitation et consultation  techniques  d'evaluation  (apres  attribution
liste                               des offres    accord de    contrat et
restreinte                          techniques   I'IDA)       Signature du
contrat
Audit   j22/02/99     2599         26/03/99    01/04/99     05/04/99    26/04/99
financi r                  I 22                           L 



Page 41
Annex 8
Mining Sector Capacity Building
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$ 49,800
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6 months             6 months
First Bank mission (identification)            10/15/1998            10/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    02/05/1999           02/10/1999
Negotiations                                   04/09/1999           04/09/1999
Board Presentation                             05/13/1999              / /19
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/31/1999            _I_/19=
Prepared by: Ministry of Mines and Industry
Preparation assistance: PHRD/Japanese Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Paulo de Sa                            Task Team Leader
Gotthard Walser                       Senior Mining Specialist
Hans Wabnitz                                 Legal
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi                                Legal
Wolfgang Chadab                             Disbursement
Siaka Bakayoko                         Financial Management
Abdoulaye Coulibaly                      Financial Management
Bernard Abeille                            Procurement
Claude Ginet (Consultant)                       Mining T.A.



Page 42
Annex 9
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manuel d'Implementation du Proj et (Draft)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project Memorandum of the President, Staff
Appraisal Report, Aide-memoires and BTOs
9tll year PFP Matrix
Mining Sector Policy Declaration
Mining Law
*Including electronic files.



CAS Annex B8
Generated: 01/30/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS' Millions                and actual                Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obi   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 33
Active Projects ..
MR-PE-1872      1993   GOVERNMENT                      TECItNICAL/VOCATIONAL                    0.00       12.50        0.00         6.62        6.51        0.00      S          S
MR-PE-1864      1994   GOVERNMENT                      AGRIC SERVICES                           0.00       18.20        0.00         6.75        3.28        0.00      S          HU
MR-PE-38661    1995         -                          FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI                     0.00        7.20        0.00         2.39        2.93        2.73      S          S
MR-PE-1857      1995   GOVT OF MAURITANIA              GENERAL EDUCATION PR                     0.00       35.00        0.00        19.40       16.73        0.00      S          S
MR-PE-34106    1996   ISL. REP. OF MTA                 INFRAST & PILOT DEC.                     0.00       14.00        0.00         9.81        9.16        0.00      S          S
MR-PE-1874      1996   MINISTRY OF PLAN                PUBLIC RESOURCE MGMT                     0.00       21.00        0.00         3.89        -.10       -2.97      HS         S
MR-PE-46650    1997   OMVS                             REGIONAL POWER                           0.00       11.10        0.00         9.13        5.63        0.00      S          S
MR-PE-1875      1997   GOVERNMENT                      RAINFED NAT RES MGT                      0.00       18.00        0.00        16.14         .67        0.00      S          S
MR-PE-35689    1998   MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCI        HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                     0.00       24.00        0.00        24.12        2.45        0.00      HS         HS
Total                                                                                           0.00      161.00        0.00        98.25       47.26        -.24                        0
(D
Active Pro1ects      Closed Proiects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 61.67             497.64              559.31                                                                                             1
of which has been repaid:                 0.00              161.54              161.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                161.00             323.27              484.27
Amount sold                     :                0.00              63.35               63.35
Of which repaid             :                 0.00              63.35               63.35
Total Undisbursed              :                98.25               3.14              101.39
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (IS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
)IU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Perforasance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
G
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                           PageI



Annex 10
- Page 44 -                                      CAS Annex B8
Mauritania
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Dec-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                   AEF Mayo Fish           0.00    0.00      .27    0.00    0.00    0.00      .27    0.00
1996                   GBM                     4.00      .20    0.00    0.00    4.00     .14    0.00    0.00
1997                   AEF Codipal             0.00    0.00      .47    0.00    0.00    0.00      .47    0.00
1997                   AEF STEP                 .75    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   BMCI                   14.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   18.75      .20     .74    0.00   18.75      .14     .74    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitnent:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 02125199



Page 45                                                  Annex 11
Maunrtania at a glance                                                             10,1,9a
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Mauritania    Africa  Income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year(millions)                        2.4      614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas metho4 US$)                     450       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS bilons)                        1.1      309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (X)                                        2.5       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%/6)                                     2.7       2.6       2.3     GNP          -                  Gross
per F                         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita        N   /          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  50
Urban populabtion (% of total populaton)              54        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      53        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)              92        90        78
Child mainutrition (% of children under S)            48                  61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                76        44        71
Illiteracy (% of populabon age 15+)                   62        43        47
Gross primary enrollmdnt (% of school-age populaton)  78        75        91                  Mauntania
Maie                                                85        82       100            -     Low-income group
Female                                              72        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996:    1997
Economic ratloas
GDP (US$blfions)                           0.52     0.80       1.1       1.1
Gross domestcinvestmenVGDP                  42.4     30.6      221       19.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP          38.5    56.4        53.6     4U3
Gross domestc savings/GOP                    2.9      7.7      13.9      13.2
Gross national savings/GOP                 20.2       3.2      17.3      15.6
Current account balance/GOP                         -27.4      -4.7      -3.4     Domestc
Interest payments/GOP                        1.5      3.9       2.7       30      Savi0                      Investment
Total debt/GOP                              77.6    217.8     220.7    21615      Sa n
Total debt servicelexports                  12.5    20.6       17.7      17.2I
Presentvalue of debtWGDP                                      145.1
Present value of debt/exports                                 248.0 
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97     1996      1997   199-420
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 1.6      3.3     4.7        5.1       4.6S                 Ma untania
GNP percapita                      -1.1      1.0      1.9       Z9        2.1                  Lowincome group
Exports ofgoods and services        7.8    -0.9       7.3     -15 6.      0.3                                  ____
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1S97     Grwth stasofoutputandlnvestm  nt(%.)
(% of GDP) 4
Agriculture                                 28.5    26.6       24.8      25.5                            r
Industry                                   33.9      31.1      31.8      29.0            ,_
Manufacturing                                      13.1      12.0       9.7
Services                                    37.7     42.2      43.6      45.5    20 '   SR    u\a4f         95 go
Private consumpbon                         65.2    80.5        72.2      74. 6    40
Generai govemment consumption               31.8     11.8      13.9      12.2                   Go      -GCw
Imports of goods and services               77.9     79.3      61.8      51.0
(average annual growth)                 197646  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rtes of export and Imports l.)
Agriculture                                  3.2      3.2       3.3       9.8    40
Industry                                     2.6      2.6       2.9      -1.8
Manufacturing                                       0.1       9.4    -15.3    20.
Services                                    -0.1      3.8       7.2       7.5
Private consumpbon                           3.1      3.3      -3.1      13.4
General govemment consumpton                -9.9      6.6       3.1      4.0
Gross domestic investment                   -2.0      0.0      27.5      -9.5   2
Imports of goods and services                1.6    -0.9        3.0    -11.4             -    Export    -    mports
Gross national product                       1.5      3.6       4.5       5.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show fbur key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete..



Annex 1 1
Page 46
Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%l
Domestic prices
(M change)                                                                            T
Consumer prices                                 ..      7.4       4.7       5.0    10 
Implicit GOP deflator                          6.0      7.3       3.5       5.7                         s
Govemment finance
(% of GDO  includes current grants)
Current revenue                                  .    24.8       30.5      26.4             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..    .0.9       12.8       9.6             -     GOP deflator  OCPt
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -8.3        6.6       4.2    .
TRAOE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and import levelsa(US$ millions)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..    418        485    cj13       300
Iron                                          ..    142         207 -     216
Fish a c                                              274       277       197     400
Manufactures
Total imports (Of                               ..    400          9 43     380      o
Food                                          ..       91        97        85 
Fuel and energy                               ..       27       109        95
Capital goods                                 ..      161        85        68       c         *
91   9z  92  94  99  96  97
Export pnce index (1995=100)                    ..      83        100       101
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       83       102        96               a*Exports     simports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               100        97       105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                 ________________
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 201      453        586       497      9
Imports of goods and services                 353      637        676       560
Resource balance                              -152     -184       -89      -63
Net income                                     -59      -70       -56       -52          i                              .
Net current transfers                           ..      34         94        78
Current account balance                          ..   -220        -52       -37      10j.
Financing items (net)                           ..    21a         101        92
Changes in net reserves                        -13       10       -50       -55    -1S-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         82       53        145      204
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLnJSS)              45.0     74.4     137.2    151.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                    _______98__199____9_
1976     1986      199i6     1997
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          407    1,749      2,415     2,376
IBRD                                          0       69          8        6                   G: 217
IDA                                          19       77        359      372              F: 24:372
Total debtservice                              26        94       113        96
IBRD                                          0       10          3         2                                     : 119
IDA                                           0        1          4         5
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             115       71        176       140
Official creditors                          113      130         58        33
Private creditors                            53        3         24        -2        8: 1,07    s62
Foreign direct investrnent                    2        5          5         3
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   3       29         35        29     A - IBRO                     E - Bilteral
Disbursements                                 5       23         36       34      8 - IDA    0 - Other Mutltateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           0        6          4        4      C - IMF                      G - Short-tera
Net flows                                     5       16         32       30
Interest payments                             C        5          3        3
Net transfers                                          1         29       27
Development Economics                                                                                                t011198
MRTCAAGB



PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF MMI'S MINING AGENCIES
Ministry of Mines and Industry
Sector Policy and Promotion
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                   Hea...
Mining Directorate                         I Director             Mining Cadastre Unit               I Head
Sector monitoring and supervision          I Sr. Conlsit (Intranel)    Management of mini ig permits   I Deputy
Management of sector data bases            2 Jr. Coij~~~          Graphic Register                   1 Receptionist
Information to Investors
Support to the definition of sector policy
Mining Service                                                              I Head
Monitoring and supervision of operations (health, safety, environment)      2 Jr. Consits.
Mining promotion and data                                                                   m
Technical and Financial evaluation of applications for permits                               X
Environmental Service                                                       I Head
Evaluation of Environmental studies (Impact Studies and Audits)             I senior Staff
Environmental Management and Information System                             I Sr. Conslt.
Coordination with Ministry of Environment                                   I Yr. ConsYt
Geological Service                                           I I-lead
Coordination of the Mapping Program                          2 Staff Documentation
Management of the Geological Information System (SIG)    I Sr. Conslt.
Information gathering and diffusion                          I Jr. Consit.
,--- - -- - -- - --               ................................... .........   ............ .............   _._..... . . .
L------------------Servie                            Conslt:consultant, non-permanent (fr the Project)
Servic _of H_ydrocarbonsu   ltnt              "p the Proect)
------------------                  Consit: consultant, "permanent", to be hired later by DMG



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25935
Il    18D           16                 14e                 11.                 10.            Atlantic e.niesh   -    * N     ALGERIA
A           CQcoear ,/S;ahoraj      ! 
MAU RITAN IA                                                                          30tMAURITANIA
0 -~">~    PRIMARY ROADS                                                                       MNokchott             MA L I
SECONDARY ROADS                               ._                                                Nema*         *Tombouctou
-------- TRACKS                                                                           D ks  -------t
----'---4- RAILROADS                                                                    THk~ ENEA                      \.K
RAMS     /        Aamoko /
0     SELECTED TOWNS                                                                             GUINEA        / (Ou.a du~J
tS   REGION CAPITALS                                                                                      HOA ROi 
2      AtRPORTS                                            MO ROCCO 2                        8 C
-. -    EGC>PORTS  -C--U--A----                                                              8         The boundaries, colors, denominations
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                               To Tindoavi    and ony other information shou,n on
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                  this map do not imply, on the port.of
The Worldi Bank Group, any judgment
BOUNDARIES                                                                                   on the legal status of any territory, or
I      'l         o any endorsement or acceptance of
I     *     ~~~~~~such bounacries, 
0       100       200      300                                                           I *ALGERIA
26'  1   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N26-
KitOMETERS                                     r-A ren Till
0~ ~                     ~       To La'Youni 1. -. .
At'ontic                                         ToLa           Bir Mogrein                                                  N
2   FORM ER                                       TIRIS 
Ocean                             SPANISH   i                                ZEMMOUR                                                   24-
SAHARA I                                                  -  A
ct'      ZouSrot         '<---'         ".K--           '> ""2
Fd6rik 
I    TouaiYnI/          /                       j
220                                                                                                                                         22-
NouadhJb  *    Lu                       /houm-                                 -                                      I
to Gou6rroi                                   H       ur d        n         
DAaET  ]/              Aiq'                 ~~~~~~A D R A R!i
20          NOUADHO           I N C H     1NiDHChinguetti                                                    /              j.
rjW  j    ~~~Akjo               Obuie'fr,, 
Nou6mgh6r                                                                                     /
V- '.>X/ '   'v i                        HODH  ECH I
/ ~   TAGANT/
, - Agoildl FaT   m                                  Tichtt     /     C H A R GUI   I
NOUAKCHO3!
180  ~  '~AZBoutiimt  -                                        : 
-16,uis                                                             A     I                            Bassik aounios 1
>                           Gouraye,  ss    X~~~~~~~~~~kosa
'E  *         '%" 
16            ojoi                   a  *\,K                        A   0I'  ~                     mu~~.SENEGAL  5M    A    L  I
14- Irse                 1;6       -         1 4                                    1 0                  B                  6            14-
FEBRUARY 1 995



