                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32599

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-32060 TF-25638)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA

                                                 FOR A

                         MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective 06/01/2005)

                                     Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
                                          UM 1,000 = US$ 3.79
                                             US$ 1 = UM 263

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1    December 31

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANEPA - National Water and Sanitation Agency
BGS - British Geological Survey
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CGS - Council for Geosciences of South Africa
CNRE - National Water Resources Center
DMG - Mining and Geology Directorate
EMS - Environmental Management System
FDI - Foreign Direct Investment
GIRM - Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
IDA - International Development Association
IDB - Islamic Development Bank
INDABA - Investing in African Mining Annual Conference
JICA - Japanese International Development Agency
MMI - Ministry of Mines and Industry
MIS - Minerals Information System
OMRG - Mining Research and Geological Office
PDAC - Prospectors and Developers' Association of Canada
PDU - Urban Development Project
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PRISM - Mining Sector Capacity Building Project
PSD - Private Sector Development
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
SAE - Environmental Affairs Service
SIGE - Environmental Management Information System
SIGM - Geological and Mining Information System
SNIM - National Mining and Industry Company
TTL - Task Team Leader
UCPM - Project Management and Coordination Unit



                                    Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
                                   Country Director    David Craig
                                    Sector Manager     Peter van der Veen
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Gotthard Walser

                                        MAURITANIA
                   MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8                                                                          29

Project ID: P057875                                                  Project Name: MINING SECTOR CAPACITY
                                                                     BUILDING PROJECT
Team Leader: Gotthard Walser                                         TL Unit: COCPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 14, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-32060; TF-25638
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Other public sector governance (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/07/1999                                     Effective: 07/31/1999                08/12/1999
     Appraisal: 02/02/1999                                         MTR: 04/04/2002                  04/15/2002
      Approval: 05/13/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MAURITANIA/MINISTRY OF MINES AND INDUSTRY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Peter A. van der Veen                          Peter A. van der Veen
Team Leader at ICR:             Gotthard Walser                                Paulo De Sa
ICR Primary Author:             Alexandra Pugachevsky


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Mining Sector Capacity Building Project were to strengthen the Government's
capacity to act as a facilitator and regulator of mining activities and to catalyze private investment in
Mauritania's mining sector. Particular attention was paid to the design and functionality of the public
mining institutions (i.e. the Ministry of Mines and Industry, the Mining Cadastre, the Minerals Information
System (MIS/SIGM), the Directorate of Mines and Geology.

The Mining Sector Capacity Building Project (PRISM) was designed in response to the request from the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM), which sought to jumpstart investment in the
mining sector. The Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania's (GIRM) previous experience with
capacity-building operations for private sector development, gained during the implementation of the
Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project (Credit 2730-MAU), substantially reduced the
risk ratings of the Mining Sector Capacity Building Project.        Originally, mining sector issues were
addressed as a separate component of this project. Following successful execution of the component, a full
sector approach with a separate PRISM project, was designed and implemented.

The project intended to help the GIRM to address key needs (policy, institutional, environmental) in the
mining sector, through a set of steps that laid the ground for future private investment and whose
implementation would provide a sound basis for exploiting, over the long term and in a sound manner, the
natural resources of Mauritania. The specific project objectives were: (a) to complete sector reforms in
order to establish an enabling environment to attract foreign direct investment in mining, which would
ensure a real and sustainable contribution to economic growth; (b) to build institutional capacity to
effectively enforce laws and regulations, administer mining titles, and monitor sector developments; (c) to
strengthen the Government's capacity to make essential geological information available to potential
investors, including a mining data bank and a geological map; and (d) to establish capacity in the country,
by means of pilot projects, to identify and address environmental as well as social impacts from mining.

The objectives were consistent with the June 7, 1997 CAS goals, which sought to improve economic
management through capacity building of public institutions in order to promote economic development and
facilitate regulatory activities. Mauritania was highly dependent on the exports of two products, fish and
iron ore, with foreign investment limited to an average of US$8 million/year, making mining sector
development particularly relevant for the country's economic revival.         It is in this context that the
Government was seeking to initiate private sector investment into the mining sector, in order to exploit the
country's mining sector potential (iron ore, copper, potential gold deposits known at the time), and the
PRISM activities were formulated.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objectives, as designed, were successful in meeting Government objectives and in applying
World Bank assistance to the mining sector. There was no revision of the original project objectives, as
stated in the MOP and the Loan agreement, however, during the life of the Project, more attention was paid
to the environmental and social aspects of mining. There was during implementation an important and
progressive shift towards the development of processes and activities to increase consultation and
participation of the community, civil society and nongovernment organizations in relation to the project
and, more broadly, to the mining sector development. As a result, a follow-up project was designed to pay
more attention to these issues.

3.3 Original Components:




                                                     - 2 -

The project included four components to address the project development objectives listed in section 3.1.
The components were: (i) Capacity Building of Ministry of Mines and Industry Agencies; (ii) Upgrade of
Geological Infrastructure; (iii) Environmental Management System; and (iv) Project Implementation Unit.

The design of all four project components was clearly linked to the Project Development Objectives. The
credit focused on the Government's economic objectives of increasing mining sector competitiveness
through an upgrade of the country's geological infrastructure, capacity building of relevant institutions and
environmental management.

3.3.1 Capacity Building of Ministry of Mines and Industry's Mining Agencies (US$2.55 million)

The Capacity Building Program (Component 1) took into account the lessons learned from an institutional
audit conducted under the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project.                The audit
recommended that an ambitious mining sector reform program was necessary to improve sector
competitiveness and to enable public sector mining institutions to effectively regulate the sector and to
attract and manage foreign investment. The PRISM project design drew on the emphasis on counterpart
ownership and participation in project preparation, intensive supervision and coordination in the field.

The Component was designed to focus on institutional development of mining sector organizations, and to
improve the mining titles management system. The design of the Component directly related to the first
Project Development Objective, to strengthen Government capacity to act as a facilitator and regulator of
mining activities. The design of the second sub-component, which focused on the establishment of a
modern, state-of-the-art Mining Cadastre also corresponded to the objective of the Project to establish an
enabling environment to attract foreign direct investment in mining.

The provision of modern hardware and software, adequate facilities for the Cadastre and registry functions
were in line with the second Project Development Objective, which sought to build institutional capacity to
administer mining titles.

Right at the time of PRISM effectiveness, the new Mining Law was approved by the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, setting up an adequate legal framework. (The Mining Law preparation
began in 1998, during project appraisal).

3.3.2 Upgrade of Geologic Infrastructure (US$10.45 million)

The second component focused on the development of geological information infrastructure, in an effort to
meet international demand for reliable and up-to-date information on Mauritanian geological resources,
which would help to attract private investment. The design of this Component responded to the third
Project Development Objective, which sought to "strengthen the Government's capacity to make essential
geological information available to potential investors, including a mining data bank and a geological map."
The Component consisted of three parts, with Part A covering geological mapping of Mauritania and the
creation of the Minerals Information System (MIS), i.e. SIGM. The SIGM design was focused on the
systematization and analysis of geological data to make it available to potential mining sector investors.
The design of the first sub-component also included modernization of the necessary equipment, network
and purchase of geological data management software, which all corresponded to the third development
objective.

The second sub-component financed the geophysical airborne survey of selected areas, to furnish essential
information for geological mapping and exploration and to attend to the needs of the private sector. The


                                                     - 3 -

design of the sub-component was supported by previous experience developed by the World Bank
implementing geological data gathering in other countries (i.e.Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, Guinea, among
others). The sub-component was directly linked to the first sub-component, providing the geological data,
which was then analyzed by the SIGM.

Finally, the third sub-component was designed to coordinate and supervise the publication of maps and to
integrate the two other sub-components. The purpose of the third sub-component was to ensure that the
materials produced by the Project were of the highest quality.

3.3.3. Environment Management System (US$1.5 million)

The third component corresponded directly to the fourth Project Development Objective, to "establish
capacity in the country, by means of pilot projects, to identify and address environmental as well as social
impacts of mining." The third component focused on building capacity within the Ministry of Mines and
Industry through the formation of the Environmental Unit at the Mining Directorate (DMG).              The
component also developed a database for the Environmental Management System and incorporated into its
design pilot environmental baseline studies and socio-economic baseline studies over selected areas as a
means of building local capacity to manage mining legacy/impacts.

3.3.4. Project Implementation Unit (UCPM) (US$1.0 million)

Finally, the last component financed the Project Implementation Unit, which was responsible for liaising
with local counterparts, monitored project progress and supervised project implementation. Implementation
of disbursement, procurement and financial management were part of this component. UCPM (Unité de
Coordination du Project Minier) was set up to act as a liaison with the mining stakeholders, and the World
Bank supervision team.


Component;                        Cost;                                            Rating
1. CAPACITY BUILDING;            $2,500,000.00;                                    S
2. GEOLOGIC INFRASTRUCTURE;                $10,400,000.00;                         S
3. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM;                       $1,500,000.00;           S
4. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (UCPM);                  $1,000,000.00;               HS

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the PRISM components. The scope of the geological infrastructure
coverage was substantially increased during project implementation because of the savings achieved from
the USD/SDR exchange rate, and the parallel financing received from other involved donor institutions,
namely, from the Islamic Development Bank and the French Cooperation. (please see section 5.4 for
additional details).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as "Satisfactory".

The Project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the Government of Mauritania's needs for the
design of a sound institutional reform program and economic revival of the mining sector.

Government ownership of the Project, which was fostered during project preparation and appraisal,
substantially facilitated implementation and contributed to reaching the project outcomes. The Project was
regarded positively from the start by the Government of Mauritania stakeholders, as it was clearly meeting



                                                    - 4 -

a key Government agenda at the time ­ improving geological infrastructure, and institutional capacity
building of the Ministry of Mines and Industry.

Lessons learned from the preparatory work conducted under the Private Sector Development and Capacity
Building Project (institutional audit) were applied to project design and the formulation of project
objectives.    The PRISM sought to initiate mining sector promotion in Mauritania through an
institutionalization of a transparent mining legislative system, world-class mining Cadastre and an
attractive fiscal regime for potential investors. The GIRM, with the assistance from the PRISM, would
substantially improve Mauritania's reputation among mining investors, and advertise changes at industry
marketing events.

The Ministry of Mines and Industry was a partner from the conception stage, and continued to play this
role throughout project implementation. The Government went through with the preparation of the Mining
Code and also engaged in the organization of several workshops on the mining issues to understand/execute
an in-depth analysis of sector reforms to be supported by the Project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project has met its original objectives with full disbursement of the credit.

Project outcome is rated as "satisfactory", as it achieved its relevant objectives and is expected to achieve
satisfactory development results with only a few shortcomings. The PRISM was successful in meeting its
objectives and in its approach to mining sector reform, capacity building of public institutions and
upgrade/modernization of Mauritania's geological infrastructure. As a sign of the positive results achieved
by the Project, two new mines were transitioning from exploration to exploitation at the time of the PRISM
closure ­ December 2004. A more detailed assessment of each outcome objective follows.

4.1.1 Mining sector reforms to establish an enabling environment to attract foreign direct investment in
mining, which would ensure a real and sustainable contribution to economic growth: Satisfactory

The Project introduced modern, international best-practice legislation in the Mauritanian mining sector,
which was instrumental in attracting international private sector investment. In addition, the administration
of mining titles was reformed with the assistance from the PRISM financing to reach international best
practice levels and to facilitate its operations. The Project resulted in an expansion of the number of
international companies active in exploration and exploitation activities in Mauritania.

In 1999, at the time of Project launch, there were only 4 international operators active in Mauritania.
During Project implementation, the number of international operators active in the country went to from
peak of 14 in 2001 to 8 in 2004. The level of foreign direct investment into the mining sector surpassed the
targets set at the time of appraisal. In 1997, the amount of foreign direct investment (FDI) was US$10
million, and was targeted to reach US$120 million by 2004. The actual FDI in 2004 reached US$148
million.

Mining sector institutional reform attracted important mining investors to Mauritania, such as RTZ,
DeBeers, First Quantum and BHPBilliton. These newcomers demonstrated that the country is able to
attract large mining sector investments because of its newly improved image, and its best practice in mining
sector regulations. Two mining projects were recently launched in Mauritania, in Tasiast and in Akjout.
The locations of these deposits, (gold and copper, respectively), were known for some time, but the
international investor community was hesitant to commit because of the perceived risks associated with the



                                                      - 5 -

Mauritanian mining sector. Production for the two projects is due to start in mid-2006, and can be
considered as the key achievement of the PRISM, with the assistance from the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania. For the mining sector, the transition from exploration to production marks an
important step, which demonstrates positive shifts in perception, transparency and stability.

In terms of fiscal revenue growth and exports of mining production, the project was less successful. Fiscal
revenues earned from new mining activities have been slow to grow, because the new projects have yet to
move to exploitation stage; however, with the planned production start for Tasiast gold and Akjoujt copper
projects in 2006 and 2007, respectively, it is expected that the Government of Mauritania will see a rise in
its fiscal revenues from mining shortly thereafter. These slow signs of success are, in fact, in line with the
mining sector peculiarities, where investors usually wait for changes in the country's reputation, and then
proceed with small initial investments in exploration. The real gains in terms of foreign direct investment
into mining sector are usually due to exploitation investment, which normally comes after three-four years
of reform efforts and exploration work.


                                  New Investment in Mining Sector

                         250

                         200

                  USD 150

                         100
                  Million 50

                          0
                              1999       2000        2001       2002        2003       2004

                                                           Year



(b) to build institutional capacity to effectively enforce laws and regulations, administer mining titles, and
monitor sector developments: Satisfactory

The PRISM focused on institutional capacity building of the Ministry of Mines and Industry (MMI). The
establishment of the Mining Cadastre as an autonomous structure under the auspices of the MMI was a
major achievement. At the time of Project closure, the Cadastre was already operating in a new facility,
which also provided state-of-the-art technological equipment and computer software.              The Mining
Cadastre, after an initial rush for new titles in 2000 (44 processed), processed an average of 20 new mining
titles annually (17 in 2004, 18 in 2003, 27 in 2002, and 23 in 2001). The Mining Cadastre succeeded in
keeping the number of days to process a new mining title at 21, compared to an average of six months
before the reform. It received no complaints from investors or involved stakeholders, demonstrating its
ability to achieve the second project objective.

Another facilitating instrument established with the assistance from the PRISM in the DMG (Direction des
Mines et de la Géologie) is SIGM (Système d'Information Géologique et Minier), Geological and Mining
Information System. This part of the DMG stores geological data and provides potential investors with
technical data upon request. After some initial staffing problems, the organization has been able to
function efficiently. SIGM became fully operational in 2004, after the staffing issues have been resolved,



                                                      - 6 -

and a capable manager was hired. In 2004, SIGM receipts for its services amounted to US$27,320.

 (c) to strengthen the Government's capacity to make essential geological information available to potential
investors, including a mining data bank and a geological map: Satisfactory

The project was successful in achieving its third objective. The financing available for the geophysical
surveys and the mapping was higher than originally planned during Project appraisal because of
fluctuations in the US/SDR exchange rate, contributions from other donors, and successful negotiations
with the contractors being considered for the assignment. As a result, more territory than originally
planned was covered by geological mapping, contributing to an enhanced knowledge of Mauritanian
geological resources. The analysis of this data is currently available for interested investors at the SIGM,
the local distribution point at the Ministry. This information is currently being processed to be presented to
clients over the Internet and in digital form. The PRISM cooperated with the Islamic Development Bank
and French Cooperation to finance the component. French Cooperation committed US$800,000 for this
assignment, and the Islamic Development Bank - nearly US$4.0 million (US$3.96 million), substantially
extending the territory of the country covered by the PRISM.

The PRISM engaged in promoting the increased knowledge of Mauritania's geological resources and
upgraded institutional framework in sector-specific conferences and seminars, such as the annual mining
investment conferences in Cape Town and Toronto.

(d) to establish capacity in the country, by means of pilot projects, to identify and address environmental as
well as social impacts from mining: Satisfactory

The Project achieved satisfactory results in meeting its fourth objective. In order to build local capacity in
the Islamic Republic of Mauritania to manage environmental and social impacts from mining, the Project
assisted with the establishment of the Environmental Affairs Service (SAE), and also the Environmental
Management Information System (SIGE).           Linkages were formed with the Ministry, responsible for
environmental management (the Ministry of Rural Development, Water, and Environment), and mining
sector-specific environmental regulations passed. While in the beginning of project implementation, the
SAE experienced some problems in its human resources capacity, the MMI was able to resolve this issue
and hired capable staff by the time of project closure. The component also carried out several pilot studies
­ a baseline conditions study of the Birghaem area in the North of the country, and a socio-economic pilot
study in the Zouerate area. The pilot projects set up the baseline, established the methodology to study
mining impacts, and summarized this information for further follow-up by the SIGE.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1 ­ Capacity Building of MMI's mining agencies

This component output is rated as "Satisfactory." The Ministry of Mines and Industry commitment to
project objectives and implementation, as well as Government ownership of the process remained very high
throughout PRISM implementation. Consequently, the process of institutional reform proceeded smoothly.
New laws and regulations to upgrade the investment climate in Mauritania and to improve mining sector
foreign investment, as listed in 4.1.1, have been adopted.

1.1      Legal and Regulatory Reform

A series of laws and supporting legislations/regulations providing a sustainable framework for the



                                                      - 7 -

development of the mining sector were enacted during project preparation and implementation. A modern
Mining Law, which was prepared and drafted during preparation of the PRISM, was approved in June
1999; a decree on mining titles was adopted in December 1999, and a decree on mining inspection and
police was adopted in November 2000, both supporting a stable and competitive framework for mining
titles administration. The law, approving the standard mining agreement was adopted in January 2002.
Finally, the decree on mining environmental regulations was adopted in June 2004.

Below is a full list of all mining legislation enacted during the project implementation period.

Name of legislation                                                            Date of enactment
Law no 99 013 on the Mining Code formulated during Project preparation 23 June 1999
and adopted in 1999
Decree no 160 99 on the mining titles, formulated during project               30 December 1999
preparation and adopted in 1999.
Decree no 139 2000 on the mining security                                      21 November 2000
Law no 02 2002 on the Mining Convention for investments in the mining 20 January 2002
sector
Decree no 002 2003 modifying and expanding certain parts of decree no          09 October 2003
067 96 on taxation in the mining sector
Decree no 054 2004 on the Environment aspects of Mining sector                 06 June 2004

1.2      Institutional Reform

The objective of the first Component focused on institutional development and capacity building of the
Ministry of Mines and Industry, focusing particularly on the Directorate for Mining and Geology (DMG).
It was clearly identified during preparation that organization and staffing problems would make difficult
for DMG to fulfill its responsibilities as defined by the new policy and legal framework. A diagnostic
allowed DMG to identify the issues and a new structure responding to modern public management
functions was defined ­ a Geological Service (SG) and an Environmental Affairs Service (SAE) (see
below) were established under DMG and an autonomous Mining Cadastre Unit was created, in addition to
the already existing Mining Service. Information and management systems were developped within each of
these new services, namely a Geological and Mining Information System (SIGM), an Environmental
Information and management System (SIGE) and a Cadastre System. The primary recommendation of the
diagnostic was to reinforce and train staff in the three units.

The Geological Service and SIGM. For SG/SIGM, the PRISM hired 6 interns (selected on a competitive
basis out of 28 candidates), for a trial period of six months, with the possibility of becoming full-time
DMG staff thereafter. International consultants (British Geological Survey and in a second phase GAF
from Germany) were hired to provide infrastrucutre set-up and, mostly, on-the-job training. At the time of
PRISM closure, SIGM was fully operative, and was the primary contact for distribution of geological
information collected and analyzed under PRISM.

On average, SIGM processed 15 requests for information each month. During 2004, 21 mining companies
turned to SIGM for geological data, analysis and information. SIGM products were available in form of
reports, CDs and series of maps at different scales. A catalogue provides a complete inventory. Receipts
from the SIGM sales are paid to the Ministry of Finance and part is deposited on a Mining Account (see
below)    During 2004, SIGM earnings amounted to 7,240,000 UM, US$27,320 equivalent, representing
about 50% of the unit operations cost (approximately $57,000 for 2004, including logistical expenditures



                                                       - 8 -

and salaries). The balance of funds is provided mostly under the annual Treasury budget.

Staffing of the SIGM and successful operations of the institution that followed, provided the PRISM with
an invaluable lesson for further institutional capacity building in Mauritania. and, for instance, the
Environmental Affairs Service is in the process of following the steps taken by SIGM under the PRISM2
project. Selected interns would undergo the 6-month trial period in order to receive relevant training to
assist the institution in moving towards institutional sustainability.

The Mining Cadastre and Registry System. The Mining Cadastre was established as an autonomous
institution under the Ministry of Mines and Industry with the support of the Component 1. The Mining
Cadastre focuses on the process of granting and administration of mining titles and follows clear,
transparent procedures, as defined under the Mining Code and its regulations. Since its establishment, the
Mining Cadastre has functioned in a timely manner, with a successful and consistent application of legal
regulations. The Mining Cadastre professionalism and quick turnaround time for requests - about 21 days
for title granting - contributed to an increase of investors confidence which is reflected by the number of
mining permits requested and processed since 1999. Bo th the enactment of the new Mining Code and the
performance of the Mining Cadastre resulted in an immediate positive impact on sector development.

The figure below shows the area covered by permit requests from 1976 to 2004. A spike in the number of
new permit requests falls on 1999-2000, corresponding to the the start of the Mining Cadastre operations
under PRISM.


                                                 Area Held in Permits


                              700000
                              600000
                km2)(         500000
                              400000
                     Area     300000
                              200000

                         Total100000
                                   0


                                   1976 1978 1983 1987 1990   1994 1996 1998   2000    2002   2004
                                                                Year




                                                         - 9 -

                                        Cadastre Permits Held


                250

                200

                150

       Permits# 100
                50

                 0  1976   1978   1983    1987     1990      1994   1996     1998     2000     2002      2004


                                                            Year




The figure above illustrates the activities of the Mining Cadastre ­ the top line shows the total number of
total Mining Cadastre permits held, and the bottom ­ new permits processed over time. While in 1999, the
Mining Cadastre received 14 requests for new permits, the number increased to 44 in 2000. Thereafter, the
number stabilized at about 15-20 permit requests a year. Establishment of the Mining Cadastre Unit as an
independent entity under the MMI is an excellent example of the contribution that the Project has made to
sector development and to institutional capacity. With the new Mining Cadastre, the distribution of mining
permits in Mauritania became more balanced. Since 1999, there was a marked increase in the number of
titles held by nationals (other than SNIM).

Mining Cadastre operation costs 50 millions UM a year (US$180,000 equivalent), while its receipts
reached US$315,190 in 2004. The Mining Cadastre operations are consequently funded entirely by the
services it provides.

Financial sustainability. Receipts for fees and services from MMI agencies are transferred to the Treasury.
In 2003 a Mining Account was set up to keep 40% of these earnings (about USD140,000 equivalent/year)
which are spent on (i) maintenance and infrastructure costs of the different units and systems, (ii) sector
promotion activities and (iii) contracting of experts when needed, according to a distribution key.

Component 2 ­ Upgrade of Geologic Infrastructure

The objective of the second component was to provide up-to-date geological information in order to attract
new exploration and exploitation in Mauritania's mining sector. Airborne geophysical surveys, geological
mapping and geochemical surveys were carried out over selected parts of the country. To store and process
the information generated under PRISM, as well as by other sources, a Geological and Mining Information
System was set-up (SIGM, see here above). All information is publically available.

Extensive airborne geophysical surveys were carried out, as they represent a well-adapted method to
quickly improve knowledge of geological infrastructure and minerals location. The PRISM, at the time of
appraisal, planned to finance 371,000 line kilometers of airborne survey (radiometry and magnetometry) of



                                                       - 10 -

the Rqueibat precambian shield, and 207,000 line kilometers of the Southern zone. The project was able,
as a result of the well applied international competitive bidding procurement method, to obtain lower cost
than initially planned (about 20% less than the average for the neighbouring countries).  As a result, the
final coverage under PRISM was increased by 29% compared to appraisal estimation. Altogether, IDA
funding was used to cover 225,850 km², and IDB funds were used to cover 156,530 km², representing a
total of 382,380 km² or 38% of national territory.

The geophysical data were then used to speed up and improve the results from two major mapping projects
implemented under PRISM by the DMG with the assistance of two well established Geological Surveys
(BRGM and BGS). The outputs consist in series of state of the art geological and mineral potential maps at
different scales and related reports. The information is available at the SIGM in hard copy or in digital
form. In terms of the number of geological maps produced, the Project surpassed its initial targets,
producing 19.5 rather than 14.5 sheets of the Northern Zone (an additional 39%); 12 out of 12 planned
geological maps of the central and southern zone (100%); and 8, rather than 6.5 maps initially planned of
the Southern-most zone (23% more than planned).




                                                   - 11 -

2.3 Sub-component supervision and publication of maps

Council for Geosciences of South Africa (CGS) was hired with the support of the PRISM to provide
advisory services on the management of the highly technical geophysical and geological component. CGS
provided quality control services and evaluation of the geological products produced under the Component
2.

Component 3 - Environmental Management

The output of this component is rated as "Satisfactory." The primary objective of the component was to
build local capacity of Mauritanian mining institutions (namely the DMG) for environmental management,
and to develop new methods, adapted to Mauritanian conditions, to process baseline environmental impact
assessments and to monitor the sector environmental performance.

Three principal activities were implemented under the third component:

1)      Pilot study of baseline environmental conditions and socio-economic impacts of mining activity;
2)      Establishment of the Environmental management system (SIGE);
3)      Reinforcement of institutional capacity for mining sector environmental management through
technical assistance, training, and formulation and adoption of a Decree on environmental protection in the



                                                    - 12 -

mining sector.

SIGE (Système d'Information et de Gestion Environnemental) was developed by DMG/SAE staff with the
assistance of international consultants. However, operations experienced some problems due recruitment
difficulties, but, despite a slow start, (SIGE was designed and finalized during 2001, but only became fully
operational in 2004), by the time of the PRISM closure, the human resources issues were resolved.

Another important result of the Project was the preparation and adoption of the Decree N054 2000 on the
Environmental regulations in the mining sector. To address environmental issues, pilot studies were
conducted in the F'Derik-Zouerate area and completed by 2002. The conclusions of the pilot studies were
used to define the scope and content specifically adapted to the conditions of Mauritania, of the mandatory
Environmental Impact Assessment required to companies to obtain their environmental authorization to
operate. A baseline study was done in the northern Bir Moghrein region, where at the time had no mining
activity, but which demonstrated high potential for future mining development. The study was to serve as a
reference point, and looked at soil, water, air, and fauna/vegetation analysis. The methodology for the
study was adapted to the special conditions of the region. The second study was done on socio-economic
impacts in the F'Dérik-Zouerate region to study both, an area with current mining activity, and an area,
where mining activity was recently completed (after the mine was moved from F'Dérik to Zouerate). One
of the key conclusions of the study was that Zouerate, because of its heavy dependence on mining, faced the
potential risk of becoming an economic ghost town, if SNIM ceased to operate there. Social impacts of
mining activity were analyzed in detail and brought to the attention of the MMI. As a result, the PRISM2
incorporated diversification of economic activities in the Zouerate-Nouadhibou corridor as one of its
components.

Component 4 ­ Project Implementation Unit (UCPM)

The UCPM was exemplary in its implementation of the project, including financial management and audit,
disbursement and procurement functions. Good management allowed the PRISM to achieve its objectives
at a cost lower than originally budgeted, and to use the savings to attain additional outcomes (i.e. more
geological mapping was done, than planned). The UCPM was able to disburse 100% of Credit funds.
Improvements in geological infrastructure and knowledge, identified by the MMI as a national priority,
were the primary beneficiaries of the savings.

The cost of implementation of Component 4, however, exceeded the originally planned amount by nearly
50% mainly due to technical complexity of the activities supervised by the UCPM during the PRISM. The
UCPM was able to successfully implement the PRISM, and is considered to be a positive example by the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because the PRISM is a technical assistance/capacity building operation, there was no quantitative
analysis at the time of appraisal.

While accurate quantification is not possible at this stage, the fiscal, balance of payments and employment
benefits associated with the known and possible future investments would likely be substantial - order of
magnitude estimates for future years would be in the range of US$5-10 million per year fiscal, US$50-100
million year net balance of payments and 1,000-2,000 formal annual direct employment - compared with
TA project costs of US$20.3 million - indicating a very positive return for the government. This excludes
benefits during the construction phase as well as any indirect, spin off and other benefits associated with
the new projects.



                                                     - 13 -

A number of economic indicators were projected and used to monitor project performance, such as the
value of mineral exports, fiscal revenues earned from the mining sector, and the total value of mining sector
investment. Annex 3 compares the projected figures with the actual numbers.

While mining development generates benefits, it is recognized that it also causes costs in terms of negative
environmental and social impacts. Measures are in place to minimize and mitigate such negative impacts
as outlined in Section 4.2 (Component 3) and 3.3.3. The project has supported the introduction of
environmental regulations and other measures such as the set-up of the Environmental Affairs Service in
the MMI to minimize and mitigate such negative impacts.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable (see above)

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The PRISM made an important contribution to the institutional development of mining sector institutions in
Mauritania. Namely, an autonomous Mining Cadastre (separate from the MMI and DMG) was set up with
the assistance from the PRISM. The Mining Cadastre has its own sustainable financial management
system, collects its receipts and manages its finances autonomously.

The PRISM also contributed to inter-ministerial cooperation in Mauritania, providing well functioning
interfaces between the Ministry of Mines and Industry to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Economic Development and the Ministry of Environmental Affairs and Water Resources. The MMI
structure was upgraded and overhauled, with several departments set up to streamline management ­
DMG, OMRG, SIGM, SAE.

Institutional development impact was further augmented through cooperation with the agencies in charge of
water management ­ ANEPA (Agence National d'Eau), CNRE (Centre National des Ressources en Eau).
These institutional cooperation mechanisms were firmly in place by the time project implementation ended,
and would contribute to the institutional development impact even after project closure.

The MMI supervision skills have improved through intensive training programs financed with the
assistance from the PRISM.

There is still room for improvement in terms of environmental management and monitoring and the staffing
of the SAE. At the time of the PRISM closure, the project was assisting the MMI in identifying capable
and committed personnel to staff the unit and to better address environmental and social issues that arise
from mining.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Mining sector investment worldwide depends heavily on fluctuations in commodity prices. At the start of
project implementation, commodity prices were low, but gradually increased, as a result of an increase in
the demand for mining products, including those produced in Mauritania ­ i.e. iron ore, copper, and gold.
Another factor contributing to growing international interest in mining sector investment in Mauritania was
the high demand for mining production stemming from China.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Technical training programs to meet the needs of the various institutions were prepared with the support



                                                     - 14 -

from the GIRM. The strong GIRM interest and commitment to reform facilitated the implementation of the
PRISM, especially with regard to the set-up of the legal and regulatory framework and institutional
arrangements.

The MMI expressed strong commitment and contributed steadily to the PRISM success throughout the
project's life cycle. Despite some political instability in the country, the MMI was headed by only two
ministers during the six years of project preparation and implementation ­ a factor that improved project
outcomes because of managerial continuity.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MMI's and its agencies' commitment to sector reform remained stable and performed well to assist in
implementation of the PRISM. The Ministry provided full assistance to sector reform.       The monitoring
and reporting activities which were under the implementing agency control were carried out regularly and
served as a useful project supervision instrument. The PRISM management executed day-to-day dialogue
with its counterparts, and ensured that the relevant regulations were firmly in place to carry out mining
sector reforms.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Some of the components' costs were adjusted during project implementation. The amount of the credit
approved by the Board was SDR11.1 million, or USD$15 million equivalent. By the time disbursement
ended, on April 30, 2005, SDR1,095 million or 100% of the Credit was spent. The PRISM benefited from
the fluctuation in the USD/SDR exchange rate, and especially from the devaluation of the US$ relative to
SDR, increasing the actual Project amount in USD terms to US$20.3 million. The difference was used to
finance the geological infrastructure component. Parallel financing, which, at the time of the PRISM
appraisal and negotiations was not clearly defined, was obtained from French Cooperation in the amount of
US$800,000, and from the Islamic Development Bank, in the amount of US$3.96 million.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as "Likely". The legal and regulatory framework reforms supported under
the PRISM were adopted with full backing by the Government, and implemented during project
effectiveness.     Current mining sector legal regulations in Mauritania are best practice, based on
international experience. The institutional framework in the mining sector was set in place, all necessary
changes were adopted early during PRISM implementation, and were institutionalized by the time of the
PRISM closure. A number of institutions created with the assistance of the PRISM (i.e. the Mining
Cadastre, SIGE, SIGM) were fully operational in an autonomous and transparent manner, even producing
their own positive cash flow. The geological products created under the PRISM are available to the
international investor community, and present up-to-date knowledge of Mauritania's mining resource
potential. In terms of environmental management, the PRISM achieved full acceptance and integration by
counterparts of mining environmental impact studies.

The PRISM devoted substantial resources to training of mining sector specialists in Mauritania. Their
skills and knowledge will continue to contribute to sustainability of project reforms.

The PRISM, in its full achievement of project objectives, set up the initial framework for mineral resource
development in Mauritania.          Supplemental financing for the PRISM was considered to expand
implementation of its objectives, but was considered to be insufficient, as the need for a broader platform
arose. The PRISM2 builds on the outcomes of the PRISM to expand its objectives and to shift focus from



                                                    - 15 -

an upgrade of geological/geophysical knowledge, institutional capacity building and environmental
management to local economic development in mining areas, hydrogeology and transfer of basic services
(water/electricity) to private operators.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
PRISM2 is a follow-up operation, which became effective in December 2003, a year before the closure of
the PRISM. PRISM2 uses the same PIU and works with the same institutions as the PRISM. The two
projects were implemented in parallel to ensure continuity on the country level and to smoothly manage the
transition from PRISM to PRISM2.

Some institutions (SIGM, the Mining Cadastre), that were set up during the PRISM implementation began
operating without any formal support before project closure.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation relied on the lessons learned from the Private Sector Development Capacity Building
Project (Credit 2730-MAU), and was consistent with the CAS. During Project preparation, the team
engaged in intensive dialogue with the Ministry of Mines and Industry and the principal donors involved in
Mauritania (French Cooperation and the Islamic Development Bank, in particular). Project design was
based on the World Bank's previous experience with similar projects in Africa and Latin America.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision and follow-up were judged to be "satisfactory." Supervision missions were conducted on a
regular basis, and were staffed with sector specialists. The World Bank established a close working
relationship with its Mauritanian counterparts, in whom it found reliable partners, actively engaged in
Project implementation. The supervision teams also engaged with the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania, especially the Ministry of Mines and Industry, liaised with the Ministry of Environment and
Rural Development and Ministry of Water, and provided assistance for the dialogue of the Government
with other donor organizations (such as JICA, French Cooperation, the Islamic Development Bank), and
potential investors in the mining sector in Mauritania (especially during mining investment conferences,
such as Indaba and PDAC.) The task team liaised with other projects operating in Mauritania, in order to
join efforts and to benefit from their experiences. A high level of cooperation was especially achieved with
the PDU (Urban Development Project).


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as "satisfactory." The fact that the Mauritanian counterparts were
extremely satisfied with the World Bank team and the Project is demonstrated by a follow-up operation to
build on the successes of PRISM. PRISM2 was designed at the request of the GIRM and became effective
before PRISM closure.

Disbursement was satisfactory and there were no delays.

The project was able to achieve near 100% disbursement rate during its lifetime.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation is assessed as "satisfactory." The Government, at the request of the



                                                    - 16 -

World Bank team, identified capable staff to assist with project preparation and to provide local assistance
and the required resources. The Ministry of Mines and Industry was a capable and a committed partner,
who assisted in the identification of strategic reforms objectives for mining sector reform and institutional
capacity building.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as "satisfactory." The Government actively
engaged with the World Bank on the reform process, and demonstrated its commitment to project objectives
by complying with all covenants. Counterpart financing was timely and satisfactory.

There were no delays in project implementation, counterpart financing, disbursements or financial
management.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated as "highly satisfactory."          The implementation agency for
PRISM (UCPM) was able to carry out all of the planned activities for the project in a timely manner.
There were no delays, and the UCPM had consistent and reliable leadership, and a positive relationship
with the task team and the Government. In addition, the agency disbursed nearly 100% of the funds
allocated for project activities, and followed procurement and financial management procedures in line with
the World Bank guidelines. The UCPM also managed to adjust its operations and activities at the times of
USD/SDR exchange rate fluctuations to maximize the benefits to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania from
the PRISM.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania during PRISM
implementation is rated as "satisfactory." The Government acted as a committed and capable partner to
the World Bank throughout the implementation process, and actively engaged in policy dialogue. As a
result of Government engagement, institutional reforms in the country's mining sector were undertaken, and
sector legislation passed. One of the examples of the Government's support and satisfactory performance
was the establishment of the Mining Cadastre as an autonomous agency within the Ministry of Mines and
Industry. Government had full ownership of the reform process initiated by the PRISM from the project
launch, and was a willing supporter and implementer of legal, institutional and regulatory reforms in the
mining sector.


8. Lessons Learned

The major lessons learned were:

·        Government commitment. Government commitment and buy-in from an early stage are essential
for regulatory/legal/institutional reform and subsequent sustainability. GIRM ownership of the project
from the very start facilitated the reform process and expedited regulatory changes necessary for legislative
changes.
·        Counterpart funds ­ the PRISM received counterpart funds in a timely manner, especially because
of a close working relationship maintained between the PIU and the Ministry of Finance.
·        Inter-ministerial/inter-project cooperation. Cooperation with other World Bank operations (such
as PDU) and Ministries contributed to the Government ownership of the operation. Working with other
Ministries magnifies the effect of the project on the country level, and contributes to sustainability. In
addition, continuity is important ­ the PRISM operated under only two Ministers of Mines during its



                                                     - 17 -

lifetime and thus benefited from stability from the GIRM side.
·        Institutional development impact can only be achieved with strong Government ownership.
·        Autonomous institutions should be set up, if possible, in a transparent manner, and should follow
clear and specific procedures. This is especially important for the Mining Cadastre, which must operate
free for any political interference in a professional manner.
·        TTL-PIU cooperation. Adequate supervision and a strong relationship between the task team and
the Project management team are essential to achieve the realization of project outcomes and full
disbursement. Strong communication is essential, especially to carry out procurement/disbursement tasks.
·        Continuity - Stability of task team engaged in project supervision is very important to maintain a
working relationship with the PIU/Government actors.
·        Project implementation arrangements. The PRISM was implemented under an independent PIU,
rather than through the MMI, even though this arrangement was initially considered. It is important to
make sure that project and ministerial resources are handled separately, to assure proper IDA funds
management. Furthermore, the PRISM team consisted of professionals, with specific staff members
dedicated to each function ­ i.e. procurement, disbursement, financial management and geological/technical
experts were in place. The PRISM thus benefited from a clear division of responsibilities.
·        Training. The PRISM dedicated substantial resources to local/international training of MMI
agency and project staff, improving the flow of project implementation and building local capacity up to the
international standard.
·        Flexibility The PRISM implementation benefited from the ability of the local team and the task
team to learn and to change objectives during execution of various components. The PRISM was able to
go beyond a narrow sector specialization, to transition to a social/environmental angle in its objectives, and
thus broaden the scope of its outcomes.
·        Contract management and supervision arrangements The PRISM team worked closely with its
contracted consultants, assured timely delivery of contracts and was also heavily involved in negotiations of
larger contracts. The PRISM PIU also introduced quality control measures, such as hiring an independent
expert to supervise the cartography component and to assist with verification of products delivery. The
terms of reference used for various technical assignments were also prepared with the assistance of an
independent consultant, to ensure quality and clarity.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The PRISM-1 was a highly successful project, which contributed significantly to the development of the
mining sector of Mauritania. Not only the project
was successful in achieving its objectives but was also a model of good management and collaboration
between the World Bank and the Government.

The PRISM-1 contributed significantly to establish Mauritania as an opportunity for private investments in
the mining sector when few years ago the mineral potential of the country was completely unknown
internationally.

The changes induced by the PRISM-1 in the legal and institutional frameworks as well as the improvement
of the geological knowledge of the country resulted in the opening of Mauritania on the international level.
This opening translated mainly during the Project by the start of activities in Mauritania of well-known
international companies like RTZ, de Beers, First Quantum and BHP-Billiton, evidencing the confidence of
the investors and a better climate (legal and tax) for the investments.

The presence of these mining companies of international fames confirms the improvement of the capacity of
Mauritania to attract private investments in mining sector. The improvement of the image of Mauritania



                                                      - 18 -

concerning the mining investments also resulted in the starting of two mining projects, the gold of Tasiast
and the copper of Akjout, representing the concrete achievement of the Project objectives.

The new mining code and the establishment of a transparent and efficient Mining Cadastre Unit, achieved
with the technical assistance of the Project, were the centrepieces for the improvement of the investment
climate. Since the enactment of the new mining code in 1999 and the establishment of the Mining Cadastre
Unit, a total of 11 new international mining companies have applied and obtained exploration and mining
licenses in Mauritania.

Not only the PRISM-1 significantly contributed to the promotion of the investments in the mining sector
but also contributed to develop the conscience of the importance of the environmental management in the
mining sector. Nowadays this conscience is anchored in the plans of the Government for the development of
the sector.

The PRISM-1 contributed also significantly to the development and training of the human resources
allowing the implementation of the new mining policy with the State acting as the regulator and facilitator
of the mining development.

The objectives of airborne geophysical surveys and geological mapping have been exceeded by 21% in
superficies within the same costs constraint evidencing the proper technical and financial management of
the Project.

The objectives of the PRISM-1 were and are still relevant for the mining sector and will be continued
through the PRISM-2. The PRISM-2 will contribute to the continued improvement of the investment
climate as well as social and local economic development within mining areas.

The efficient supervision by the Bank also contributed greatly to the success of the Project and the
Government would also like to express gratitude to the World Bank Project Team for the support provided
during the implementation that without any doubt contributed to the success of the Project and the
achievement of its objectives. The Ministry of Mines and Industry noted a complete harmony and
coordination between the UCPM, the Ministry and the supervision team of the Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments received

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments received

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
1) Increase Private Investment, exports and   20                                 8
fiscal revenues: (a) Increase in the number of
private operators involved in the different
stages of the mining cycle
1) (b) Increase in average annual             US$ 50 million                     US$ 148 million
investments in mining (exploration);
1) (c) Increase in average annual minerals    US$ 50 million                     US$ 245 million (non iron ore)
exports (non iron ore);
1) (d) Increase fiscal revenues from mining. US$ 15 million                      US$ 22 million (in 2004)
2) Set the base for the creation of an        Yes                                Yes
Environmental and Social Management for
Mining: (a) Preparation of detailed
procedures for Environmental Impact
Assessments;
2) (b) Number of Environmental Impact         2                                  5
Assessment appraised.
                                              20                                 16 maps at the 1:500,000 scale; 39.5 maps
3) Improve Minerals Information System:                                          at the 1:200,000 scale
(a) Number of maps published;
3) (b) Number of consultations to the MIS     50/year                            20 in 2004
system.
4) Improve the efficiency of the mining       21                                 21 days (stable since 2001)
institutions under MMI: (a) Average number
of days required for granting a mining title
4) (b) Backlog and number of complaints of    0                                  0
the Mining Cadastre.
                                              0                                  0


Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in mining sector investment          US$ 50 million                     US$ 148 million
Number of active exploration permits          55                                 61
Completion of geophysical surveys and         100% by project end                100% by project end
cartography


1 End of project




                                                               - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1 Institutional Reform                                       2.55             3.15             123
1.1 Institutional Reform
1.2 Mining Cadastre
2 Geological Infrastructure                                 10.45           14.62              140
2.1 Geological Surveys and SIGM
2.2 Aeroborne geophysics
2.3 Supervision and publication
3 Environmental Management                                   1.50             1.02              68
4 UPCM                                                       1.00             1.64           164.3

Total Baseline Cost                                         15.50           20.43
                         Total Project Costs                15.50           20.43
                   Total Financing Required                 15.50           20.43


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           2.85             0.50         0.00          0.00         3.35
                                  (2.46)           (0.45)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (2.91)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.38         0.24          0.00         0.62
                                  (0.00)           (0.38)      (0.22)          (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        10.36          0.00         10.36
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (10.36)         (0.00)      (10.36)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00         0.81          0.00         0.81
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.81)          (0.00)       (0.81)
5. Incremental Operating           0.00             0.00         0.36          0.00         0.36
Costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.33)          (0.00)       (0.33)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           2.85             0.88        11.77          0.00         15.50
                                  (2.46)           (0.83)      (11.72)         (0.00)      (15.01)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           2.70            0.22         0.05           1.90        4.87
                                  (2.70)          (0.19)       (0.04)         (1.90)       (4.83)
2. Goods                           0.14            0.55         0.32           0.00        1.01


                                                - 21 -

                                           (0.14)             (0.47)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (0.89)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              9.50             3.50             13.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.50)            (3.50)           (13.00)
    4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.87             0.00              0.87
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.87)            (0.00)           (0.87)
    5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              0.65             0.00              0.65
    Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.50)            (0.00)           (0.50)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               2.84               0.77             11.39             5.40             20.40
                                           (2.84)             (0.66)           (11.19)            (5.40)           (20.09)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Institutional Capacity       2.47         0.27                     2.94         0.20                  119.0     74.1
Building
2. Geological                  10.02         0.00         4.76        9.86         0.00       4.76       98.4      0.0     100.0
Infrastructure
3. Environmental                1.50         0.00                     1.02         0.00                  68.0      0.0
Management
4. UCPM                         0.95         0.23                     1.31         0.34                  137.9    145.7




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

PRISM has fully achieved its primary objective to build institutional capacity in Mauritania's mining
sector to attract foreign investment. The results, in terms of foreign investment flow into the country's
mining sector are promising.       During the period of project implementation (5 years, 1999-2004),
Mauritania succeeded in attracting foreign investment in the mining sector by building capacity, improving
geological knowledge, and passing international-standard mining sector legislation.

SIGM

SIGM was restructured in 2003 and has recruited new staff. As a result, the Service began functioning
properly and was able to successfully market itself to clients. On average, SIGM receives 15 requests for
information a month. During 2004, 21 mining companies bought SIGM products, which positively reflects
project outputs. In the future, PRISM products in the hydrogeology, geophysics and geochemistry are also
likely to be in high demand, which would also raise SIGM revenues and make it financially self-sustaining.


After 2005, SIGM earnings will depend on its capacity to market the added value of its scientific products,
which are based on PRISM outputs, to potential clients.

Mining Cadastre

The Mining Cadastre now covers 150,000km2 in its databases, and has been able to avoid conflict in titles
management so far. The taxation system, introduced by the Mining Code, and applied by the Cadastre has
allowed to avoid non-productive title holders over large territories. Within two years of the introduction of
this system, SNIM relinquished rights to 40,000km2 of unproductive territory. An improved title holding
system has been introduced, where the tax ensures that the land is used productively, and, on average, the
title size has been reduced.

Since 1999, 11 new operators have registered to operate in Mauritania, and obtained their mining titles at
the Mining Cadastre. While, prior to the implementation of PRISM, most of the mining operators were
junior mining companies, since 1999, large and well-established mining companies have taken an interest in
operating in Mauritania, including, among others, RTZ, De-Beers , First Quantum et BHP-Billiton.

The Mining Cadastre receipts, collected at the time requests for titles are made, are paid to the order of
Ministry of Finance, and are divided as follows: 60% are kept by the national treasury, and 40% are given
to the disposal of the Ministry of Mines and Industry.

Annual receipts collected directly by the Cadastre now have reached the level of 50 million UM
(US$315,190 equivalent) for 2004, compared with US$180,000 in costs. Since 2000, Mining Cadastre
receipts have exceeded its operational costs.




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1998                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1999                   4    TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             MINING SPECIALIST,
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST

 Supervision
              10/21/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             GEOLOGIST,ENVIRONME
                                             NT (1)
              05/04/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              11/19/2000                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              06/01/2001                2    SENIOR MINING SPECIALIST,        S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
              10/12/2001                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              06/01/2001                1    SENIOR MINING SPECIAL. (1)       S               S
              10/12/2001                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              04/2002                   5    TTL, COUNTRY MANAGER,            HS              S
                                             MINING SPECIALIST,
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST,
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
              11/08/2002                1    TTL (1);                         HS              S
              11/08/2002                3    TTL (1); SENIOR MINING           HS              S
                                             EXPERT (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1)
              03/2003                   6    TTL,OPERATIONS ANALYST,          HS              S
                                             MINING SPECIALIST, SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST,
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
              09/2003                   1    MINING SPECIALIST                HS              S
              12/16/2003                8    TEAM LEADER (1); MINING          HS              S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL AND
                                             ECONOMIC (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (2);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                             PROCUREMENT
              06/19/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)



                                              - 24 -

 ICR
               12/2004                6     COUNTRY MANAGER,                  S    S
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST,
                                            SENIOR MINING
                                            SPECIALIST, SOCIAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST, MUNICIPAL
                                            ENGINEER
               05/2005                6     TASK TEAM LEADER,                 S    S
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST,
                                            SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST, MUNICIPAL
                                            ENGINEER, PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                5                           15
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    18                           85
  Supervision                              82                          372
  ICR                                      12                           56
  Total                                  117                           528




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Borrower's evaluation report
Project Appraisal Document
Set of new sector laws and regulations
Aide mémoires, BTOs, PSRs, ISRs (after 01/01/2005)
MTR report




                                              - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary Borrower's Evaluation Report

Le PRISM-1 est considéré par le Gouvernement comme un projet exemplaire qui a contribué
significativement au développement du secteur minier en plus d'être un modèle de bonne gestion
technique et financière.

Le PRISM-1 a aussi été un exemple de collaboration entre la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement de la
République Islamique de Mauritanie pour le développement du secteur minier.

Non seulement le PRISM-1 a significativement contribué à la promotion des investissements dans le
secteur minier mais a aussi contribué à développer la conscience de l'importance de la protection et la
gestion de l'environnement dans le secteur. De nos jours, cette conscience est ancrée dans les plans du
Gouvernement pour le développement du secteur minier.


Objectif initial du Projet, pertinence de l'objectif et qualité au départ


L'objectif principal du Projet, tel que défini au départ, est d'améliorer la capacité de la Mauritanie
d'attirer des investissements privés pour assurer le développement de son secteur minier à la hauteur du
potentiel géologique du pays. Le but du Projet était d'atteindre cet objectif en contribuant à établir un
climat favorable aux investissements dans le secteur à travers le renforcement de la capacité de
régulation et gestion du secteur.

Les objectifs spécifiques du Projet ont pour lignes d'action principales : i) le renforcement de la capacité
institutionnelle par l'ajustement de l'organisation des institutions au nouveau rôle de l'Etat en tant que
régulateur et facilitateur du développement du secteur ; ii) la production d'infrastructure géologique, à
travers les levés de géophysique aéroportée et géologiques et la diffusion de cette infrastructure au
moyen d'un système moderne et informatisé d'information géologique et minière iii) l'établissement d'une
capacité de gestion de l'environnement dans le secteur minier à travers la création d'un service des
affaires environnementales et la réalisation d'études pilotes pour développer la capacité d'identification
et de suivi des impacts de l'activité minière.

Ces objectifs comprenaient aussi le renforcement du cadastre minier, par l'acquisition de moyens
informatiques et de transport et la formation des cadres.

L'objectif principal du Projet était et est toujours pertinent pour le développement du secteur minier de
la République Islamique de Mauritanie dont les activités étaient restreintes à l'exploitation du fer par la
SNIM.

A la clôture du PRISM-1, le panorama du secteur minier mauritanien est différent avec deux nouvelles
exploitations minières en voie de concrétisation (l'or de Tasiast et le cuivre d'Akjout) qui contribueront
significativement à la diversification des revenus nationaux.

La continuité de la pertinence des objectifs du PRISM-1 est confirmée par la demande d'appui du MMI à
la Banque Mondiale pour un second projet minier permettant de consolider les acquis du PRISM-1.

Ce deuxième projet a pour objectif global la prolongation des activités mises en oeuvre avec succès
durant le PRISM-1, y compris la promotion des investissements, ainsi que l'incorporation des aspects



                                                    - 29 -

sociaux liés au développement minier. De plus le second Projet prévoit l'utilisation des informations
générées pour le développement des connaissances hydrogéologique permettant le développement social
et économique du pays.

Au début du PRISM-1, la capacité institutionnelle du secteur minier était pratiquement inexistante avec
des institutions dont les fonctions étaient mal définies et pas alignées sur la nouvelle politique minière.
Ces institutions n'étaient pas en mesure de contribuer au développement social et économique de la
Mauritanie à travers de la croissance du secteur minier.

Dans ce sens, le Projet a constitué un défi pour le MMI et les institutions du secteur qui soufraient au
début du Projet du manque d'équipement, de ressources humaines qualifiées et d'expérience au niveau de
l'activité minière industrielle.

Au début du PRISM-1 la capacité institutionnelle du secteur minier était pratiquement inexistante avec
des institutions dont les fonctions étaient mal définies et pas alignées sur la nouvelle politique minière.

Le Projet a été le premier Projet minier de cette envergure géré par le MMI, comprenant des activités
hautement spécialisées telles les levés de géophysique aéroportée, des levés géologiques et des études des
conditions de base environnementales.

Dans ce sens, le Projet a constitué un défi pour le MMI et les institutions du secteur qui soufraient au
début du Projet du manque d'équipement, de ressources humaines qualifiées et d'expérience au niveau de
l'activité minière industrielle.

Les résultats positifs du Projet montrent que le MMI a relevé ce défi avec succès et surmonté toutes les
difficultés liées à l'exécution d'un Projet techniquement complexe et de cette envergure.

La capacité du MMI et les déficiences institutionnelles du secteur minier ont été correctement évaluées
au moment de l'identification et la préparation du Projet, anticipant les principales difficultés et
prévoyant des solutions adaptées pour chaque activité.

L'exécution du Projet a confirmé la pertinence des objectifs et leur adéquation aux problèmes du secteur
minier ainsi qu'aucune modification de ces objectifs n'a été nécessaire en cours d'exécution.

Au vu de la pertinence et de l'actualité des objectifs du Projet en regard aux besoins du Gouvernement et
du Secteur Minier, le Gouvernement a confirmé la pertinence de ces objectifs par la continuité de l'appui
au secteur selon les mêmes lignes d'action avec l'effectivité du PRISM-2 avant même la clôture du
PRISM-1.


Financement et description du Projet


La définition originale du Projet comprenait quatre Composantes principales : 1) le renforcement
institutionnel ; 2) la production et mise à jour de l'infrastructure géologique ; 3) le développement de la
capacité de gestion de l'environnement dans le secteur minier ; et 4) l'unité de coordination du Projet
minier (UCPM).

Les trois premières Composantes englobaient toutes les actions d'assistance technique pour



                                                    - 30 -

l'accomplissement des objectifs du Projet tandis que la quatrième se rapportait principalement à la
gestion du Projet et à la coordination des activités.

L'estimation originale du coût du Projet se montait à 15,5 millions de Dollars(financement Banque
Mondiale et Gouvernement mauritanien)et un financement parallèle de 4,7 millions de Dollars de la
Banque Islamique de Développement et Coopération Française (coût total du projet 20,4 millions de
Dollars).

Au début des années 2000, l'appréciation du dollar par rapport aux autres monnaies, et en particulier le
DTS, a considérablement diminué l'équivalent en dollars du crédit IDA qui atteignait en 2002
l'équivalent de 14 millions de USD soit une perte de 1 million de USD ou 7% de l'équivalent dollars du
Crédit. Cette situation a entraîné des mesures urgentes d'économie au niveau des décaissements et de la
programmation des activités pour garantir l'achèvement des objectifs du Projet malgré la diminution de
l'équivalent dollars du Crédit. La dévaluation récente du dollar par rapport au DTS a permis de
compenser les pertes initiales dues au change et de récupérer une valeur équivalente en dollars à 15,7
millions de USD au moment de la clôture du Projet.

La structure du Projet aussi bien que la majorité des activités programmées n'ont pas été modifiées
durant l'exécution.

La structure du Projet et les activités programmées n'ont pas subi de modification majeure durant
l'exécution du Projet. Seules certaines activités de moindres envergures prévues dans la programmation
originale ont été supprimées ou retardées. Ces changements mineurs n'ont pas affecté ni la structure ni
les objectifs des composantes principales.


Accomplissement des objectifs et produits


L'objectif principal du PRISM-1 est d'améliorer la Capacité de la Mauritanie d'attirer des
investissements privés pour assurer le développement de son secteur minier à la hauteur du potentiel du
pays. Dans le cadre de cet objectif, les activités du PRISM-1 ont permis à la Mauritanie de se projeter
sur la scène internationale comme une opportunité d'investissement dans le secteur minier.

L'ouverture de la Mauritanie sur le plan international et les efforts de promotion du MMI se traduisent
principalement au cours du Projet par la venue en Mauritanie de sociétés de grande envergure comme
RTZ, De-Beers, First Quantum et BHP-Billiton qui ont remplacé les sociétés juniors démontrant la
croissance de la confiance des investisseurs et un meilleur climat (légal et fiscal) pour les
investissements.

La participation de ces sociétés minières de renommées internationales confirme l'amélioration de la
capacité de la Mauritanie pour attirer des investissements privés dans le secteur minier. L'amélioration
de l'image de la Mauritanie concernant les investissements miniers s'est aussi traduite par le démarrage
de deux projets d'exploitation, l'or de Tasiast et le cuivre d'Akjout.

La mise en production de ces deux projets miniers prévue début et mi-2006 peut être considérée comme
l'aboutissement des efforts du Gouvernement avec le support du PRISM-1 et confirme la capacité de la
Mauritanie d'attirer des investissements pour l'exploitation de ses ressources minérales.




                                                    - 31 -

Une des pièces maîtresse ayant permis l'établissement d'un climat favorable pour les investissements a
été l'adoption en 1999 d'un nouveau code minier fixant des règles claires et transparentes pour les
activités d'exploration et d'exploitation minières.


Composante 1 Réforme Institutionnelle


Le manque de capacité des institutions, au niveau des moyens humains, formation, matériels et
financiers, était une des principales causes du manque de confiance des investisseurs concernant les
institutions du secteur minier mauritanien.

La composante était organisée en deux volets : i) la réforme institutionnelle couvrant les aspects
d'organisation et de fonctionnalité de l'administration minière ; et ii) le suivi et renforcement du cadastre
minier, un volet consacré principalement à l'assistance technique pour l'opération du cadastre.

Toutes les activités de la réforme institutionnelle étaient de plus appuyées par un programme de
formation permettant le renforcement de la capacité des moyens humains conjointement aux ajustements
de la structure organique des institutions et à l'amélioration des moyens matériels (équipements et
infrastructure).

La création de l'Unité du Cadastre minier, structure indépendante dépendant directement du Ministre,
est le résultat le plus évident de la réforme institutionnelle. Le fonctionnement de l'Unité du Cadastre
Minier, depuis sa création, a été remarquable, avec une application systématique, correcte et rigoureuse
du cadre légal en même temps que la réalisation rapide des procédures d'instruction des demandes. Les
compagnies minières et les utilisateurs privés et publics du cadastre ont exprimé leur satisfaction pour le
fonctionnement de cette nouvelle institution, son professionnalisme et la transparence des procédures
d'octroi des titres. Le bon fonctionnement du cadastre minier a eu un impact spectaculaire sur le
développement du secteur minier et a permis de rétablir la confiance des investisseurs en Mauritanie.

Cet impact s'est traduit par la croissance soutenue des demandes de nouveaux permis miniers pour
l'exploration et l'exploitation.

Depuis la mise en vigueur du nouveau Code Minier en 1999 et la création de l'Unité du Cadastre, un
total de 11 nouvelles sociétés minières étrangères ont obtenu des permis miniers en Mauritanie.

L`UCM a atteint sa pérennité aussi bien au niveau technique, ressources humaines et financière.


Composante 2        Production et mise à jour de l'Infrastructure géologique


L'objectif de la Composante 2 "Production et mise à jour de l'Infrastructure géologique" a été de
produire et diffuser l'information géologique et géophysique de base essentielle pour l'évaluation du
potentiel minier du pays et pour autant motiver les investissements en exploration.

Dans le cadre de la présente Composante, le Projet a financé des levés de géophysique aéroportée ainsi
que des levés géologiques à l'échelle 1 :200.000ème des zones d'intérêt minier à court terme et un levé au
1 :500.000ème de tout le territoire national.




                                                     - 32 -

Dans ce sens, une zone au Nord de la Mauritanie couvrant la dorsale de Rgueibat (spécialement
inaccessible aux levés terrestres) et une zone au sud près de la frontière avec le Mali ont été choisies
comme première priorité pour les levés de géophysique aéroportée

Le financement disponible de la Banque Mondiale pour le PRISM-1 ne permettant pas de financer le levé
géophysique des deux zones, le MMI a demandé à la Banque Islamique de Développement (BID) le
financement de la zone sud sous la forme d'un financement parallèle au PRISM-1.

Les données magnétiques et radiométriques ainsi générées par le levé sur la Dorsale Rgueibat ont été
mises à la disposition du public.

De plus, le Projet a financé l'établissement d'un Système d'Information Géologique et Minier (SIGM)
pour garantir la conservation et l'accès rapide aux données géologiques et minières existantes ainsi que
celles générées par le Projet.

La couverture de cartes géologiques et de géophysique aéroportée réalisée dans le cadre du PRISM-1
ont permis à la Mauritanie de faire un pas de géant pour l'actualisation de son infrastructure géologique
et a projeté la Mauritanie comme le pays ayant la meilleure couverture géologique et de géophysique
aérotransportée de l'Afrique de l'Ouest.

L'information produite dans le cadre du PRISM-1 est disponible depuis décembre 2003 en ce qui
concerne la zone Nord (BRGM) et la zone sud depuis décembre 2004 et donc depuis trop peu de temps
pour pouvoir établir une relation directe entre l'information produite et l'impact sur les activités
d'exploration en Mauritanie.

Les économies réalisées ont été consacrées à ajuster les activités aux plans nationaux de développement
de l'infrastructure géologique et compléter des objectifs qui avaient dû être limités par la hausse du
dollar durant la première moitié du projet.

Composante 3 Etablissement d'une capacité de gestion de l'environnement dans le secteur Minier

Le renforcement de la capacité institutionnelle pour la gestion environnementale du secteur minier à
travers les activités de formation et d'assistance technique pour la définition des procédures de gestion
environnementale.

Cette activité a compris aussi la finalisation des textes d'application réglementant la protection de
l'environnement dans le secteur minier (décret).

L'étude des conditions environnementales de base a été réalisée dans la région de Bir Moghrein, une
région avec potentiel minier mais sans activités minières ou industrielles pouvant fournir une situation
de référence avant le développement minier.

Pour la réalisation de l'étude, les consultants ont développé une méthodologie adaptée aux conditions de
la zone et ensuite formé les cadres de la DMG à la réalisation et l'interprétation des résultats.

Le consultant, au cours de la réalisation de l'étude, a fait aussi l'inventaire des points d'eau de la région,
information utile pour l'évaluation des ressources en eau de la région ou la réalisation d'un suivi
postérieur pour identifier les variations saisonnières.




                                                    - 33 -

La deuxième étude pilote concernant les impacts socio-économiques des activités minières existantes
s'est réalisée sur la région de F Dérik-Zoueratt qui comporte l'avantage d'avoir une ville avec une
opération minière en pleine activité (Zoueratt) et une ville en situation d'après mine depuis que
l'exploitation a migré de F Dérik à Zoueratt.

L'étude pilote a permis d'éveiller la conscience du MMI et de la SNIM concernant les implications
sociales de l'activité minière et les solutions pour mitiger l'impact négatif de ces activités sur le
développement social des populations. Dans ce sens, son apport sur le développement local et régional
est extrêmement important et s'est traduit par l'inclusion dans le PRISM-2 des aspects sociaux de
l'activité minière.

Les recommandations découlant de l'exécution de ces études pilotes ont été prises en compte pour le
dessin et la planification de volets sociaux du PRISM -2.

De plus comme résultat des études, le consultant a préparé les procédures et les termes de référence
pour les études d'impact environnementaux adaptées aux conditions spécifiques de la Mauritanie.

Composante       4         Coordination et gestion du Projet

L'UCPM a aussi réalisé un excellent travail en ce qui concerne la coordination des activités technique
activité pour laquelle l'UCPM a bénéficié de l'assistance de consultants internationaux.

Le coût de cette composante a excédé les prévisions à cause principalement de la complexité technique
des activités à réaliser qui a demandé plus d'assistance externe que prévu.


Indicateurs de performance


Les indicateurs de performance pour l'exécution du Projet, consignés dans le manuel d'exécution,
comprennent trois catégories d'indicateurs : (i) indicateurs sectoriels de l'impact du Projet sur le
développement du secteur minier mauritanien ; (ii) indicateurs de l'impact du Projet sur le renforcement
des institutions et (iii) indicateurs de l'exécution en temps voulu des activités du Projet.

Les indicateurs sectoriels sont la mesure de l'impact du Projet sur le développement du secteur. La
plupart des actions du Projet génèrent un impact mesurable seulement à long terme au rythme des cycles
de l'exploration minière.

A part les événements de 2001 et 2003, les facteurs externes ont été favorables dans la deuxième moitié
de l'exécution du Projet (par exemple amélioration du prix des métaux) et tous les objectifs mesurables à
court terme concernant les indicateurs sectoriels ont été atteints à la Clôture du PRISM-1.

Les indicateurs de l'impact du Projet sur le renforcement des institutions ont été marqués principalement
par le franc succès du cadastre minier qui est maintenant une institution totalement pérenne tant au
niveau technique que financier. Par contre, la réforme institutionnelle de la DMG n'a pas pu être
complétée à cause du manque de ressources humaines pour réaliser ses fonctions. Cependant, une
solution adaptée à la DMG a été mise en oeuvre dans le cadre du SIGM et sera appliquée prochainement
à d'autres services de la DMG.




                                                      - 34 -

Le suivi des indicateurs d'exécution a montré que le levé de géophysique aéroportée a été réalisé selon la
programmation initiale, les levés géologiques ont eux pris du retard vers la fin des contrats à cause d'un
lent processus de va et vient entre l'ingénieur conseil et les consultants pour l'adéquation de produits
aux normes de qualité du Projet, l'établissement du SIGM a connu plus de problèmes et le SIGM a été
opérationnel seulement en 2004 alors que la programmation initiale le prévoyait dès 2002.

Par contre, les indicateurs de suivi définis dans l'Accord de Crédit ont tous été atteints et même
surpassés à la clôture du Projet.

Bilan de l'exécution du PRISM-1 et leçons acquises pour les futurs programmes dans le secteur
minier.

Si bien l'exécution du PRISM-1 a été un succès, beaucoup de problèmes ont dû être surmontés durant
l'exécution du Projet. Les solutions adoptées pour pallier ces problèmes forment une expérience
enrichissante très utile pour les futurs programmes d'assistance technique au secteur minier.

Les leçons acquises par l'exécution du PRISM-1 comprennent :

Développement institutionnel et ressources humaines. La solution de renforcer les ressources humaines
de l'institution par l'emploi de consultants nationaux à incorporer par la suite à la dotation de
l'institution s'est révélée efficace pour l'établissement de l'Unité du Cadastre Minier (UCM) qui était
une institution nouvelle. Dans les autres cas, il s'est avéré plus efficace d'engager des stagiaires
récemment sortis de l'université, sans expérience mais avec une bonne formation de base et de les former
à travers le Projet.

Cette solution est déjà utilisée comme première approche pour l'exécution du PRISM-2.

La conception du PRISM-1 comprenait une assistance externe (ingénieur conseil) pour les activités
spécialisées de cartographie géologique et géophysique. Cette prévision s'est révélée essentielle et a
permis de garantir l'obtention de produits d'une haute qualité répondants aux standards internationaux
en la matière et au MMI d'obtenir l'avis d'experts indépendants pour les différends avec les consultants
engagés pour réaliser les activités techniques.

Le MMI est convaincu que l'apport de l'assistance technique externe pour la supervision des activités
techniques a été un facteur essentiel pour le succès du PRISM-1 et a incorporé le concept de supervision
technique à toutes les activités du PRISM-2 qui comportent des activités spécialisées aussi bien au
niveau technique que social.


Supervision par la Banque


La Banque a réalisé de nombreuses missions de supervision du PRISM-1 (deux à trois par année) qui ont
permis une coordination optimum entre l'équipe du Projet et l'équipe de la Banque et ont certainement
contribué au succès du Projet.

La MMI a constaté une complète harmonie et coordination entre l'UCPM, le Ministère et l'équipe de
supervision de la Banque.




                                                    - 35 -

Le temps de réponse de la Banque concernant les demandes de non-objection a été minimum ce qui a
grandement contribué à diminuer les possibilités de retard d'exécution en particulier au cours du
processus de passation des marchés.

Le MMI est d'avis que l'exécution du PRISM-1 a été un franc succès et est probablement un des meilleurs
Projets financés par la Banque en Mauritanie.

Le PRISM-1 a contribué significativement au développement non seulement du secteur minier
mauritanien mais aussi au développement social et économique des régions minières à travers de
l'intégration de la composante sociale et environnementale dans la politique minière.

Le MMI est entièrement satisfait de la contribution de l'équipe de supervision de la Banque et n'a qu'un
souhait, que cette équipe continue à contribuer de la même manière au succès du PRISM-2.




                                                  - 36 -

- 37 -

