Report No. PID7256
PID7256
Project Name                     Mauritania-Mining Sector Capacity (@)
Building Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Mining
Project ID                       MRPE57875
Borrower                         Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Mines and Industry
B.P. 199 - Nouakchott - Mauritania
Tel. (2222) 568.61, 532.25
Fax (2222) 568.61
Date this PID prepared           April 7, 1999
Projected appraisal date         February 17, 1999
Projected Board date             May 13, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background. [Note:    Where key indicators are
established for monitoring progress toward the Bank country assistance
objectives, as envisaged in the new style CASs, this section will specify the
expected project contribution to these indicators.][Note:     Where key
indicators are established for monitoring progress toward the Bank country
assistance objectives, as envisaged in the new style CASs, this section will
specify the expected project contribution to these indicators.]Since 1992,
the Government of Mauritania has been implementing a wide range of policy,
economic and sector reforms under its structural adjustment program. The
supply response to the major structural reforms adopted by government has
been relatively slow, and Mauritania continues to be highly dependent on two
export products: fish and iron ore. In the 1992-96 period, direct private
investment averaged about US$ 75 million per annum, of which foreign
investment amounted to about US$ 8 million per year. These results are due
mainly to the problems arising at the level of the private-sector regulatory
framework, the judiciary and the financial intermediation systems. Moreover,
the lack of a well developed and maintained transport infrastructure, the
inadequate supply of skilled labor, high freight costs and high utility
tariffs do not make Mauritania a competitive environment for long-term
private investment. [Note: Summarize assessments of key policy,
institutional and other issues, and the Government's strategy to address
them, referencing the economic and sector work of the Bank and other
development agencies.]Mauritania is known to have a diverse composition of
minerals, given a part of its territory represent a structural extension of
the mineral provinces of Western Africa, namely Ghana, Burkina Faso and Mali.
Nevertheless, the country's geological potential can still be classified as
vastly unknown due to the paucity of high-quality exploration activity.
Current mining activity is dominated by state-owned iron ore producer SNIM.
Mauritania's Mining Policy Declaration approved by the Council of Ministers
in 1997 states that one of the Government objectives is to accelerate the
growth of the mining sector by creating favorable conditions through the
removal of obstacles which constraint private sector development. Foreign-led
private sector investment in mining could be instrumental in opening up the



economy to investment and competition, effectively supporting macroeconomic
stability and structural reform. Bank's assistance for mining sector reform
in Mauritania started under the Private Sector Development and Capacity
Building Project (Credit 2730-MAU) that is supporting the drafting of a new
mining Code, establishment of a mining cadastre, and preparation for the
reorganization of Public Mining Institutions (PMIs).
2.      Project Objectives. The objective of the proposed project is to
strengthen the Government's capacity to act as a facilitator and regulator of
mining activities and significantly increase private investment in
Mauritania's mining sector. The project will help the Government of
Mauritania to address key needs (policy, institutional, environmental) in the
mining sector, through a set of prerequisite steps that will lay the ground
for future private investment and whose implementation will provide a sound
basis for Mauritania in exploiting, over the long term and in a
developmentally sound manner, the significant potential of its natural
resources. The proposed project aims are : (a) to complete sector reforms to
establish an enabling environment attract foreign direct investment in
mining, which would ensure a real and sustainable contribution to economic
growth; (b) to build institutional capacity to effectively enforce laws and
regulations, administer mining titles, and monitor sector developments; (c)
to strengthen the Government's capacity to make essential geological
information available to potential investors, including a mining data bank
and a geological map; and (d) to establish capacity in the country, by means
of pilot projects, to identify and address environmental as well as social
impacts from mining.
3.      Project Description. The Project will support institutional development
to public mining institutions, as a basis for the sound and sustainable
development of the mining industry. It has two components. (i) A Policy
Implementation Component, aimed at strengthening the administrative capacity
and installations of the Public mining Institutions (PMIs), including their
cadastral and registry systems, a minerals data bank, and the mechanisms to
monitor and enforce environmental and social management related to mining
activities. It would also finance extensive geological mapping of the country
at the 1:200,000 scale, airborne geophysics survey of promising areas, as
well as relevant skill transfer, and training; (ii) A Mining Project
Coordinating Unit (UCPM) to oversee Project implementation. The Project
finances consulting services and contract works, computer equipment and
software, field and office equipment and vehicles, training, incremental
recurrent costs and the necessary upgrading of facilities.
4.      Project costs and financing. Total costs of the Project are estimated
at US$17 million equivalent, of which 77T is foreign exchange. An IDA credit
of US$ 15 million is contemplated, with expected parallel financing from
other donors, and Government contribution to finance local costs.
5.      Implementation Arrangements. The Project would be implemented over a
period of 60 months. The Project completion date would be July 31, 2004 and
the Loan closing date would be january 31, 2005. The Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MMI) would be responsible for the implementation of the project. MMI
will establish a Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) to coordinate
project implementation, and manage (a) procurement - including all
contracting for works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, (b)
project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual
-2 -



relationship with the Bank, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special
Account and disbursements.
6.      Mauritania's minerals potential was confirmed by the recent discovery
of promising gold and diamond deposits, whose economic potential still needs
to be confirmed. Nevertheless, Government will encounter difficulty in
sustaining the interest shown by major international mining companies and in
ensuring the maximum contribution to economic development unless major
reforms which have already begun are completed and deepened. Sustainability
will be enhanced through the project's strong emphasis on institutional
capacity building, training, human capital development and environmental
awareness in the public as well as private sectors. Foreign consultants will
be expected to work closely with local public and private sector counterparts
and required to transfer knowledge, technical skills, and know-how. If
proper regulations and enforcement mechanisms as well as a competitive
environment are put into place, minerals exploration and development of mines
will become self-sustaining to provide a continual revenue stream and other
economic benefits to the country.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector. [Note:
Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and
other development agencies.]  [Note:   Lessons learned from completed and
ongoing projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies.lLessons
have been learned from the ongoing activities being carried out under the
Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project, as well as from
other African countries where the Bank has financed similar mining technical
assistance projects (e.g. Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea, Madagascar, Mali and
Tanzania) and from a recent Bank review on its experience on mining sector
reform in Latin America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the
Caribbean, 1996). Experience in other countries indicates that improving the
enabling environment increases the ability of the country to attract and
retain appropriate private investment. For instance, Ghana in the late 1980s
undertook significant reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to
improve the enabling environment for private sector investment in mining.
The result has been a four fold increase in gold production, a mining
investment climate that is consistently ranked among the best in the world by
investors, and the privatization of state owned mining enterprises.
Experience in Mauritania with technical assistance as, for instance, the
Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project, suggests that
emphasis on beneficiary participation in project preparation, intensive
supervision, organization and coordination at the field level are critical
for timely and effective implementation. Ownership and political commitment
to project objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership,
availability of counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial
authority and responsibilities.
8.      Poverty Category. N/A
9.      Environmental Aspects. The project is expected to have a positive
impact on the environment by building capacity in the country for
environmental management at the national level and within the mining sector.
A comprehensive Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be carried out as
part of the project, including the: (i) review of the present status of the
environmental legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) evolution
of the mining sector, including a description of most of the mining projects
- 3-



in operation or under development; (iii) potential physical and socio-
economic impacts of sector activities on the environment and on the
communities; (iv) preparation of environmental baseline studies, to assess
natural, social and sector background data in selected areas of each of the
participating Provinces; (v) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline
studies aiming at the definition and implementation of consultation
procedures, training requirements and programs, ad hoc institutional
strengthening and other related measures.
10.     Program Objectives Category. Private sector Development. Foreign-led
private sector investment into mining could play an instrumental role in
stimulating the supply response to the major on-going macroeconomic stability
and structural reforms adopted by government, opening the country's economy
to investment and competition. The project will contribute to unlock the
country's good geological potential through an enhanced access to foreign
technology and financing.
11.     Project Benefits. (i) induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and
local direct investment in mining and increased export revenues; (b)
development of capacity in private services to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies,
laboratories, mining construction works and earth removal, maintenance and
others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a
regional development impact (e.g. roads, energy); (d) increased income-
generating opportunities in remote areas, increased education opportunities
and reduced migration outflow; (e) contribution to a better regional
distribution of productive activities; and (f) sustainable development and
fair distribution of benefits to local communities located around mining
areas;
(ii) as a direct result of the project: (a) establishment of a modern,
consistent and homogeneous mining legal and regulatory framework; (b) better
understanding of how government, private sector, communities and donors can
work together dealing with foreign investors, and the contract negotiations
process; (c) improved efficiency in public mining institutions (e.g. faster
and non-discretionary administration of mining rights and improved
understanding of issues involved in managing such rights), and improved
enforcement capacity of environmental, health and safety regulations; (d)
improved security of tenure for mining rights through non-discretionary
procedures and accurate geological location of concessions; (e) improved
knowledge of existing environmental and socio-economic conditions, as a basis
for improved management and participation of local communities; (f)
protection of the environment from potential damage caused by mining and a
better grasp of how to design future environmental protection measures in the
sector; and (g) generation of baseline regional information that can be used
by all sectors (e.g. water resources).
12.     Project Risks. The overall risk of the Project is estimated to be
moderate. The main identified risks and their minimization measures included
in Project design are: (i) Government's continued commitment to reform:
Government's program for mining sector reform is on schedule and was
confirmed and reinforced during the Consultative Group meeting; (ii)
Condensed timing to build-up to build-up capacity to manage cadastral data by
Mining Cadastre Office: preparatory work is being funded by a PHRD grant; in
order to avoid excessive concentration, technical assistance will be phased
- 4 -



and prioritized so as not to overburden the relevant government departments
and the international consultants engaged will work alongside local
counterparts; (iii) Reasonably stable world minerals market conditions and
prices: although the general trend in mineral prices will continue to be flat
or down over the long term, it is expected that as a result of the project
potential investors will find promising targets that will allow them to
position themselves favorably in the next minerals investment cycle; (iv)
Commitment to honor the provisions of the new Mining Code: stability clauses
in the new mining code provide investors reasonable security during critical
phases of the project; and (v) Continued staff ownership regarding project
objectives: this risk will be mitigated by proven strong advisory capacity by
consultants to guide and support the development of managerial and
administrative capacities, combined with a participative processes to
implement the institutional reform and introduce new work methods.
13.     Contact Point.   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
- 5-



