Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3206 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Mining Sector Capacity Building Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3206 MAU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 1999, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated April 10, 1999, confirming 
the undertakings made by the Borrower in its letter of sector policy dated March 6, 
1997, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance the 
mining sector of the Borrower (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to 
the execution of the Program; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
Page  2
“12.
(a) ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means,  collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of a Participating Country or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Mauritanian Ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
“MMI” means Ministère des mines et de l’industrie, the Borrower’s 
Ministry responsible for mining and industry;
(c)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manuel de procédures adopted by 
the Borrower on April 10, 1999, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement containing, inter alia, work-plans, training plans, monitoring and 
performance indicators, and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the 
Project, as may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association and 
such term includes any schedules to the Program Implementation Manual; 
(d)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(e)
“Project Management Report” means each Project Management Report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(g)
“UCPM” means Unité de coordination du projet minier, the Project 
coordination unit within MMI. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 2009, and ending April 1, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2019, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future administration of the Borrower’s mining sector; and  
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open an account in UM in a commercial bank in the territory of the 
Borrower acceptable to the Association (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain 
said Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association until 
the completion of the Project;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an initial amount 
equivalent to $50,000, to finance the Borrower's contribution for expenditures under 
the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by April 15, July 15, and October 15 in 
each year during Project implementation, such amounts as shall be required to timely 
replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit referred to in 
paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association designed to: (i) strengthen its financial management system for the 
Project; and (ii) develop, not later than thirty months following the Effective Date, 
or such later date as the Association shall agree, a system acceptable to the 
Association for the preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports, each of 
which: (A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; (B) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (C) sets forth 
the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  6
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
The Borrower has: 
(a)
opened the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c)
established, a computerized accounting and financial information 
management system in UCPM, acceptable to the Association; and
(d)
appointed: (i) the project coordinator at UCPM; (ii) a procurement 
specialist; and (iii) an accountant and financial analyst, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economic 
affairs and development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
BP 238
Nouakchott
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Cable address: 
Telex:
840 MTN 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Page  7
By /s/ Abdallahi Ould Kebd 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Geophysical and civil
  2,000,000
100% of foreign
works
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(2)
Equipment
    400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services,
  7,100,000
100%
and audits
(4)
Training
    550,000
100%
(5)
Incremental operating
    250,000
70%
costs
(6)
Unallocated
    800,000
TOTAL
 11,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, office rent, communication and utility charges, vehicle operation, 
travel expenses related to the Project but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of : (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 350,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after February 28, 1999. 
Page  8
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $ 100,000 equivalent each, and for expenditures for 
services under contracts with consulting firms costing less than $100,000 or with 
individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to 
regulate mining activities in its territory and thereby facilitate private investment 
in the mining sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Capacity Building in the Mining Sector 
1.
Strengthening the mining system management capacity and the capacity of MMI to 
administer, monitor and enforce environmental, health and safety regulations and to 
engage into participatory negotiation procedures with communities hosting mining 
sites, through the provision of technical advisory services and training, acquisition 
of equipment and carrying out of rehabilitation works for office buildings related to 
the Project. 
2.
Strengthening the mining title registry through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training and the acquisition of equipment. 
3.
Preparation and carrying out of research, surveys and mapping activities 
resulting in the creation of digital and printed geological maps, through the 
provision of advisory services and training.
4.
Carrying out studies to collect information and prepare sector specific 
standards pertaining to: (a) environmental, health and safety standards; (b) social, 
cultural and economic consequences of mining operations on communities hosting mining 
sites.
Part B:
Project Management and Supervision 
Coordination, administration, supervision and monitoring of Project 
implementation through the carrying out of training programs, acquisition of equipment 
and provision of technical advisory services.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Geophysical works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Page  9
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, geophysical works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to geophysical works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for geophysical works shall be qualified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for geophysical works shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $ 75,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 900,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Procurement of Consultant Services
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule. 
Page  10
2.
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultant’s services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Contracts for cartography services estimated to cost no more than $ 1,800,000 
equivalent in the aggregate may, with the Association prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for each contract of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Page  11
Implementation Program  
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or 
waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, during the twelfth month following Effectiveness, or such 
later date as the borrower and the Association shall agree upon, and thereafter in 
regular intervals of twelve months until the completion of the Project, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review in a meeting with the Association, 45 days following the 
submission of the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, said report, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association views on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall cause UCPM to include in the report for the third review 
meeting referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of this Schedule, to be referred to as midterm 
review, in addition to the information furnished as set forth in subparagraph 2 (b) of 
this Schedule, a detailed description of progress made towards: (i) the increase of 
foreign investments in the mining sector; (ii) the increase of fiscal revenues from 
the mining sector; (iii) the implementation of environmental protection activities; 
(iv) the performance of the mining title registration system; and (v) the quality and 
timeliness of the reports furnished in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that the following three positions at UCPM are staffed 
by suitably qualified and experienced personnel, satisfactory to the Association, 
until completion of the Project, namely: (i) the project coordinator; (ii) the 
procurement specialist; and (iii) the accountant and financial analyst.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) by April 30, 2002, carry out the studies referred to 
under Part A. 4. of the Project; (b) promptly upon completion of the said studies, 
submit their results to the Association for its review and comments; (c) take into 
account the comments and recommendations made by the Association; and (d) implement 
the recommendations of the said studies, as agreed and in accordance with the 
timetable agreed upon with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), through (5), set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
The term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
Page  12
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $ 1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $ 500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
for replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals, 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
Page  13
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. \0c
SCHEDULE 6 
Monitoring and Implementation Indicators
The indicators for monitoring and evaluating the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project, referred to in Paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement are the following: 
1.
at least five new private sector-mining enterprises have undertaken mining 
exploration activities within the Borrower's territory by June 30, 2004; 
2.
at least two new mining projects will be decided during the period of project 
implementation; 
3.
the number of days required to deliver a new mining license is inferior to 30;
4.
at least eight geological maps at the 1 : 200,000 scale are published by June 
30, 2002; 
5.
by June 30, 2002, the Borrower has adopted detailed procedures for Environmental 
Impact Assessments of mining projects; and 
6.
at least 80% of the staff at the Directorate of Mining and Geology have 
participated in training activities organized under the Project. 
