Document of
The World Bank                   FiLE  Ce
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3328-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 20, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00          =  CFAF 300 1/
CFAF 1,000       =  US$3.33
CFAF 1 million   =  US$3,333
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF          =  African Development Fund
BDEAC        =  Banque de Developpement des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale (Development Bank
of the Central African States)
CAR          =  Central African Republic
CFPTP        =  Centre de Formation Professionnelle
des Travaux Publics (Public Works
Training Center)
DGTP            Direction G6nerale des Travaux Publics
(Directorate-General of Public Works)
FAC             Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Fund
for Aid and Cooperation) (France)
FED             Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(European Development Fund) (EDF)
GTC             Groupement des Transporteurs
Centrafricains (Central African
Transporters' Cooperative)
vpd          =  vehicles per day
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC'S
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Central African Republic
Amount:                  SDR 16.2 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
*       Co-financiers:            France (FAC), Development Bank of the Central African
States (BDEAC), African Development Fund (ADF),
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, OPEC
Fund for International Development
Project Objectives       The major objective of the proposed project is
and Description:         to rehabilitate the most important part of the
CAR's road network, a key element of the country's
economic rehabilitation plan. The project would
also strengthen the institutional framework necessary
to ensure that once rehabilitated, this network
could be largely maintained by CAR personnel with
local funds.
The project would include the following components:
(a) rehabilitation of about 1,200 km of gravel
roads; (b) repairs and resealing of the paved Bangui-
M'Baiki road (102 km); (c) reconstruction of the
paved Bangui-Ymbi road (6.5 km); (d) provision
of road maintenance equipment and construction
of buildings and other facilities to support road
maintenance activities; (e) technical assistance
to supervise the rehabilitation activities, promote
the development of small rural contractors, strengthen
the country's transportation planning capacity,
and carry out a study of the trucking industry;
(f) training of national personnel, both to fill
inmediate project needs and to assure long-term
administrative capacity in the Ministry responsible
for roads.
Benefits                 Most of the quantified project benefits consist
and Risks:               of reduced vehicle operating costs.  Other quantified
project benefits consist of increased value added
from the increase in cotton production which
is expected to take place, once the cotton crop
can be easily evacuated. Unquantified project
benefits include cargo and passenger journey
time savings, increased road safety, dependable
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
year-round access to centers of production and
to markets, regeneration of economic activities
in the zones of influence of the roads, and the
integration of these areas into the mainstream
of the CAR's economy.
The project's major risk is that Government funds
for maintenance of the upgraded road network
may be inadequate. To minimize this risk, the
Government has been asked to confirm that specific
amounts, corresponding to projected needs, will
be allocated to the road maintenance fund during
the project period.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
US$ (millions)
Foreign     Local      Total
I.  Road Rehabilitation                        22.9        3.8       26.7
II. Institutional Development
H.  Equipment                               4.4       0.6         5.0
I.  Buildings                               0.6       0.3         0.9
J.  Technical Assistance                    2.9       0.5         3.4
K.  Training                                1.0       1.0         2.0
Subtotal                   8.9        2.4        11.3
Baseline Costs                             31.8       6.2        38.0
Physical Contingencies                      3.4       0.5         3.9
Price Contingencies                         4.7       1.5         6.2
TOTAL COST                 39.9       8.2        48.1
1/ Excluding identifiable taxes.



- iv -
Financing Plan:
US$ (millions)
Foreign        Local        Total
IDA                           15.3          2.7          18.0
ADF                            8.2          1.2            9.4
BDEAC                          1.1          0.2           1.3
FAC                            4.0          0.5           4.5
Kuwait Fund                    4.9          0.8            5.7
Opec Fund                      4.4          0.7           5.1
Government                     2.0          2.1           4.1
TOTAL            39.9          8.2          48.1
Estimated                                                 US$ (millions)
Disbursement:          Fiscal Year        1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual             1.8      4.3      6.5     3.5      1.7      0.2
Cumulative         1.8      6.1    12.6    16.1    17.8    18.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             29%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 3797-CA dated May 11, 1982
Map:                  IBRD 15897



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reconmmendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Central African Republic (CAR) for the equivalent
of SDR 16.2 million (US$18.0 million) on standard IDA terms, to assist
in financing the Fourth Highway Project. The proposed project will be
cofinanced in parallel as follows: the African Development Fund (ADF),
$9.4 million equivalent; the Development Bank of the Central African
States (BDEAC), $1.3 million equivalent; France, $4.5 million equivalent;
the Kuwait Fund, $5.7 million equivalent; and the Opec Fund, $5.1 million
equivalent. Annex IV provides more detailed information on co-financing.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, entitled "The Economy of the Central
African Republic" (Report No. AW 16-a), was distributed to the Board
on May 22, 1970. Poor financial management during the 1970s limited
the Bank Group's economic dialogue with the country to sporadic missions.
A full-fledged economic mission has just returned from the country, however,
and an economic report will be prepared in FY83.
Political Situation
3.        After the regime of Emperor Bokassa had been overthrown in
a coup d'etat at the end of 1979, President Dacko formed a new Government.
His two-year regime was plagued by political and economic instability,
and in September 1981 the army stepped in to stabilize the situation.
The new Government is making efforts to remedy the country's economic difficul-
ties. In particular, it has attempted to limit unauthorized public expendi-
tures and control the size of the public administration.
Economic Potential and Constraints
4.        The CAR is a landlocked country of 626,000 km2  with a population
of 2.4 million growing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. About 40 percent
of the inhabitants live in urban areas. With a 1980 per capita income
of US$298, the CAR is listed by the UN as one of the least-developed
countries. The CAR is a member of the five-country Central African Customs
and Economic Union and uses a common currency, the CFA franc, issued
by a regional central bank, the Bank of the Central African States.
5.        The CAR's economy is based on agriculture, which provides 37
percent of GDP and provides a living for some 80 percent of the population.
Mining and manufacturing account for 13 percent of GDP; transport, utilities,
and services, for 50 percent. Although basically devoted to subsistence
crops, the agricultural sector also produces export crops, of which cotton



-  2 -
and coffee are the most important. Their combined exports have in the
past accounted for about 50 percent of the country's export earnings,
but during the last three years, their combined share declined to an
annual average of about 35 percent. Timber and diamonds, the other major
export products, have recently accounted for 20-30 percent of export
earnings each.
6.        The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transport conditions,
and the small size of the domestic market are the principal constraints
to developing the country's resource potential. Bottlenecks in the river/rail
route to the sea through the Congo and the generally poor condition of
the road route to the sea through Cameroon substantially increase transport
costs and reduce the country's export competitiveness. The small size
of the domestic market makes it difficult to take advantage of economies
of scale, with the result that production costs are high.
Past Performance
7.        In the 1960s, the Government pursued a development strategy
which left most economic activities to the private sector. Government
efforts focused on providing basic social services and on stimulating
the production of cotton. A successful cotton program, investments in
import-substitution manufacturing and in forestry, increased diamond
exports, and a well-functioning private river-transport system led to
a GDP growth of about 4-5 percent a year in real terms during the second
half of the 1960s; both the state budget and the balance of payments
remained in a generally comfortable equilibrium during that period.
8.        During the 1970s, GDP growth averaged only about 3% percent
a year. Exogenous factors such as droughts, heavy fluctuations in world
market prices, and the recession in the industrial countries led to an
annual average growth of agricultural production of only 2.4 percent,
or somewhat below the population growth rate. Agriculture's share in
GDP fell from 51 percent at the beginning of the early 1960s to about
37 percent at the end of the l970s, in part as a result of the Government's
attempt to implement hastily prepared and not-well-thought-out institutional
reforms which resulted in the departure of expatriate technical assistants
working in the sector and in the closing of regional rural development
offices. Cotton yields in particular fell, such that production at the
end of the 1970s was less than half that at the beginning of the decade.
Coffee production fell sharply when world market prices declined in the
first half of the 1970s; production did not recover during the coffee
boom in 1975/77, since much of the labor had migrated to the diamond
fields. Periodic shortages of food were experienced in urban centers,
attributable in part to difficult road conditions, especially during
the rainy seasons, but also to a food marketing system which discouraged
farmers from producing more food than was needed for local subsistence
purposes.
9.        During the first half of the i970s, accelerated development
of the country's forestry resources helped to compensate for the difficulties
in other sectors. Between 1974 and 1976, however, forestry production



- 3 -
declined because of depressed international demand. Even so, when world
demand and prices improved towards the end of the 1970's, exports did
not recover because of the companies' financial difficulties and the
poorly functioning transport system.
The Budget
10.        The most serious weakness occurred in the management of the
state budget. Between 1977 and 1980, budgetary deficits increased from
us$25 million equivalent to US$43 million equivalent, representing almost
43 percent of revenues (excluding grants). Tax revenues averaged only
13 percent of GDP during this period, mainly because of (a) a substantial
rise in the smuggling of imports and diamonds, (b) numerous tax loopholes,
and (c) unwarranted import franchises for the private sector, as well
as (d) lax tax collection in general. These shortfalls in receipts amounted
to roughly a third of the budget deficit. On the expenditures side,
the 19 percent annual growth in wages and salaries since 1978 exceeded
nominal GDP growth by some 7 percentage points, while the share of outlays
for investments in total expenditures fell from 9 percent in 1977 to
5 percent in 1981.
11.        In early 1981, a first effort was made to reduce the deficit,
through a financial austerity program in connection with an IMF stand-
by arrangement. The Government increased several taxes, eliminated economical-
ly unjustified customs duty exemptions, and strengthened tax collection.
Tax revenues increased, however, by only eight percent because of the
low level of economic activity in 1981. Expenditures, on the other hand,
grew by only four percent in 1981, compared with an average rate of growth
of ten percent per year in the period 1977-80.
12.        The 1982 budget demonstrates once more the urgent need for
significantly reducing salary and wage payments to the civil service.
Although the Government has frozen salaries at their current levels in
1982 and is attempting to stabilize the number of civil servants at the
end-1981 level, job redefinitions and promotions are expected to increase
the wage bill in the civil service by approximately 15 percent, which
is roughly equal to the estimated nominal GDP growth in 1982. The Government
expects, optimistically, that revenues will increase by approximately
25 percent in 1982, but the budgetary deficit, forecast at 3.7 percent
of GDP, will leave no room for a substantial reduction in payments arrears,
estimated at US$36 million at the end of 1981, or 43 percent of tax revenues.
Balance of payments
13.        The balance-of-payments situation has strongly reflected the
weaknesses in domestic policies. In 1977, in spite of a strong growth
of export earnings of 41 percent, a trend of rapidly deteriorating current
accounts began. While earnings from merchandise exports grew at the
moderate rate of only six percent a year between 1977 and 1980, merchandise
imports more than doubled. The current-account deficit rose from US$42
million equivalent in 1976 to US$136 million equivalent in 1980, or from
9 percent of GDP to 17 percent of GDP, respectively. Foreign direct



-4 -
investment and official aid disbursements declined rapidly in reaction
to the deteriorating financial and political situation, and the Government
resorted to heavy commercial borrowing in 1977, thus aggravating the
country's external-debt problems (para. 15). After the fall of the Bokassa
regime, imports of consumer and capital goods grew strongly, financed
by a substantial increase in grants and a resumption of concessionary
aid. In 1981, however, the balance of payments deteriorated again, mainly
because of lower than expected exports and reduced capital inflows, and
net foreign reserves fell from US$4.7 million equivalent in 1980 to minus
US$3 million equivalent in 1981.
14.       During 1978-81, the IMF provided the CAR with substantial balance-
of-payments support. In 1978, the country received a US$6.9 million equivalent
Trust Fund loan, and in 1980, balance-of-payments support amounted to US$14.7
million equivalent (US$5.2 million equivalent First Credit Tranche, plus
US$9.5 million equivalent Trust Fund loan). In 1981, support from the
IMF amounted to US$20.6 million equivalent (US$11.6 million equivalent
Compensatory Financing, plus US$9.0 million equivalent from the remaining
First Credit Tranche, the Second Credit Tranche, and part of the Third
Credit Tranche). In addition, the country has received a total of US$9.2
million equivalent in SDR allocations over the last three years.
External Debt
15.       As a result of the earlier economic and political difficulties,
the economy is burdened with a considerable external debt. In spite
of budgetarv assistance from abroad, the Government has serviced only
40 percent of its debt-service obligations during recent years. At the
end of 1980, outstanding arrears were estimated at US$81 million, or
approximately one third of the total foreign borrowing. At the beginning
of 1981, the Government raised the rate of the beer tax, the country's
traditional vehicle for generating revenues for debt-service payments.
This action helped convince creditors that the Government was serious
in its attempts to redress the situation and paved the way for a Paris
Club debt-rescheduling meeting. At this meeting, held in June 1981,
participating creditor countries agreed to reschedule both the outstanding
arrears and the debt obligations falling due in 1981, leaving a debt
service obligation of US$5.5 million equivalent in 1981 (instead of the
US$24 million equivalent which would have fallen due in the absence of
debt rescheduling). Delayed bilateral negotiations resulted, however,
in actual debt service payments of only US$4.4 million equivalent in
1981. In 1982, scheduled debt service payments have been estimated at
about US$19 million equivalent.  Since the country's funds earmarked
for debt-service purposes are not expected to exceed some US$8 million
equivalent in 1982, an additional build-up of arrears will be unavoidable
unless the debt obligations are again rescheduled.
Investment Plan
16.       In June 1980, the Dacko Government organized a donors' conference
at which it presented a national rehabilitation and short-term economic
development plan. This Rehabilitation Program emphasized the development
of the agricultural sector and the rehabilitation of the road- and river-



transport system, crucial for increasing exports and reducing import
costs and for facilitating the supply of inputs for agriculture. Planned
public investments amounted to US$72 million equivalent in 1981 and US$96
million equivalent in 1982, or roughly 10 and 11 percent of estimated
GDP, respectively. Investments in agriculture (40 percent) and transport
infrastructure (30 percent) represented the bulk of the program. The
implementation of most investment projects was, however, delayed because
they needed additional preparation and financing. Actual public investment
expenditures amounted to only 7 percent of GDP in 1981, with the biggest
shortfall in agriculture.  The new Government considered this investment
level to be too low, and is therefore attempting to launch a larger program
for 1982-84. This program consists of (a) small-scale, labor-intensive
road rehabilitation in rural areas, (b) small agricultural operations,
and (c) repairing public buildings. Although additional investments
in the agricultural sector are warranted, potential donors are showing
only marginal interest in projects other than a proposed integrated rural
development project in the cotton zone (para. 17), to be appraised by
the Bank in June 1982. So far, less than one quarter of the financing
for the additional investment program has been acquired.
17.       In agriculture, the Government continues to emphasize cotton
and coffee production. These two subsectors account for more than half
of the planned investment in the agricultural sector over the next five
years and have been receiving substantial financial and technical assistance
over the last several years. The integrated rural-development project
in the cotton zone aims at restoring cotton production from its present
low level of some 21,000 tons a year to 45,000 by 1984/85. Through an
integrated coffee-development project, coffee exports are to double by
1984/85. Although production targets seem too ambitious, both projects
are expected to overcome the stagnation and decline of agricultural production
during the past several years and stimulate economic growth in the medium
term, once the institutional problems in agriculture have been overcome
and marketing and extension services have been improved.
Public enterprises
18.       During the 1970's, the Government launched a policy of state
ownership in the productive sector. The Government's limited managerial
capacity resulted, however, in low efficiency and financial losses.
Most public enterprises incurred heavy operating deficits and discontinued
generally accepted bookkeeping practices. Payments for their services
to the Government were made irregularly, and enterprises in turn failed
to pay taxes and debt-service obligations. In 1980, in an attempt to
remedy the situation, the Government began to convert public enterprises
into mixed enterprises. A special unit in the Presidency is assisting
the parastatals in adopting strict accounting principles, in preparing
the legal framework for the participation of the private sector, in reviewing
price and tariff policy, and in closing enterprises that cannot be expected
to produce profitably. With the help of a concessional loan from France,
the enterprises' overdue tax liabilities, inter-enterprise debt and payment
arrears by the Government were largely liquidated in 1981; it has been
estimated, however, that additional funds of about US$4 million equivalent



-6-
will be needed to pay the Government's debts to the public enterprises
or to cover losses and to facilitate the transformation of those enterprises
in the productive sector into private or mixed companies.
Prospects
19.       The economy of the CAR, after having stagnated or declined
during the last several years, can be expected to show some gradual improvement
over the next few years, if present policies and efforts at reform are
continued. The implementation of necessary adjustments in the agricultural
and public sectors is, however, likely to result in growth rates above
the population growth only in the second half of the 1980s. Cash-crop
production is expected to increase in response to the increase in producer
prices for cotton and coffee. Prospects for cotton production are particularly
good from 1983 onwards, when the integrated rural development project
will begin to have an effect, and when world market prices are expected
to recover from their present low levels. Export and budget earnings
from the forestry and diamonds sectors are expected to increase substantially
because of (i) a forecasted strong rise of world market timber prices,
(ii) expanded production in both sectors, and (iii) improved collection
of export taxes. The road-rehabilitation program will stimulate agricultural
exports and facilitate the supply of imported goods needed for the country's
reconstruction. Moreover, the return to political stability, the Government's
encouraging attitude toward the private sector, and the continuation
of the privatization of public enterprises are expected to induce private
investors to return to the CAR. The full impact of these changes will
not be felt immediately, but they have set the stage for further improvements
in the next years.
20.       In view of the country's present poverty and debt-service problems,
the CAR is not creditworthy for conventional borrowing at present. In
addition, even assuming exceptional efforts to improve public financial
performance, public savings net of debt service are likely to be negative
during the early 1980s. Therefore, the Government's contributions to
public investments will remain modest for several years. Foreign donors
should be prepared to support the Government's efforts at reform and
rehabilitation by continuing their program aid, assisting new development
projects, extending their assistance on highly concessional terms, and
financing a high proportion of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CAR
21.       Bank Group commitments in the CAR amount to the equivalent to
US$39.7 million and cover three transportation projects, one education
project, one livestock project, and one technical assistance project.
Two transportation projects and the education project have been completed,
and the Third Highway Project has been virtually completed. Annex II contains
a summary statement of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1982, as well as notes
on the status of the ongoing projects. Project implementation in general
has improved considerably over the past three years. The CAR's disbursement
rate (disbursements in relation to the undisbursed balance) compares very
favorably with that of other countries, averaging 67 percent during the
last five years, compared with 23 percent for the Western Africa Region



and 21 percent for the Bank/IDA as a whole. The CAR's rate also compares
very favorably with those of other countries at similar levels of per capita
income and development.
22.       The level of lending and the sectoral composition of the Bank
Group's lending program over the past 17 years were largely circumscribed
by the country's poor economic performance and limited absorptive capacity.
If, however, the present Government continues its efforts to improve
its financial and economic performance, the Association would be prepared
to consider financing a comprehensive rural development project (para.
16), an emergency rehabilitation operation to preserve existing infrastructure
in the education sector, and perhaps a further reconstruction/rehabilitation
project in the transport sector as well as a project in the forestry
sector.
23.       A combined Project Completion Report for the first two transporta-
tion projects, dated July 23, 1976, as well as the Audit Report dated
December 13, 1977, concluded that the first project, a straightforward road-
construction project which did not require much Government participation,
had succeeded rather well, but that the second project, a maintenance project
requiring substantial Government counterpart funds and recurrent-cost financing
for its implementation, had encountered substantial problems and delays.
The experience with the second project made it apparent that special efforts
would have to be made to re-establish a functioning, effective national
road maintenance capacity. Under the Third Highway Project, therefore,
the Association encouraged the Government, through both formal efforts
(legal covenants) and informal efforts (dialogue during project supervision),
to take action in this area. These actions included (a) restructuring
and reform of the Road Fund (para. 34), the source of funding for road
maintenance; (b) reorganization of the Ministry of Public Works; and (c)
establishment of road maintenance brigades. The proposed Fourth Highway
Project will continue and strengthen the efforts made to improve national
road maintenance.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
24.       The CAR's transport system has developed as a function of the
country's landlocked geographic situation and its heavy reliance on imports
and exports. The focal point of the network is Bangui, the country's
capital, principal commercial center, dominant (river) port, and site
of the international airport.
25.       Most domestic transport is by road.  From east to west, the
country is linked by the deteriorating road (1,300 km) which begins at
Bangassou (on the border with Zaire) and ends at Boulai (on the border
with Cameroon) and forms part of the Trans-African Highway. From south
to north, the country is linked with Chad by two major routes. The primary
outlet to the sea (para. 6) is the 1800-km river/rail Trans-Equatorial
Route through Brazzaville (Congo) to Pointe Noire (Congo). The alternative
route (1,680 km) through Cameroon to Douala is becoming attractive for
high-value, low-bulk exports and imports.



-8
Transport Planning and Financing
26.       In principle, transport planning functions as follows:  the
Ministry of Transport initiates sectoral development proposals, on the
basis of which the Directorate-General of Public Works (DGTP) within
the Ministry of Public Works formulates specific objectives and priorities
for roads. Based on the Ministry of Transport's proposals, the State
Secretariat of Planning drafts a development plan for review by the Council
of Ministers and, eventually, the approval of the head of state.
27.       In fact, the planning process is hampered by a number of factors,
principally by the fact that the various agencies' staffs are limited in
their capacity to prepare and evaluate investment programs.  In addition,
there is often little coordination between the sectoral proposals initiated
by the Ministry of Transport and the specific objectives formulated by
the Ministry of Public Works. As a result, clear priorities and well-prepared
projects have been scarce, and past investments of foreign donors have
not necessarily corresponded to the country's real needs.
28.       The Government has recently taken steps to improve the planning
process. The Ministry of Transport has been reorganized, with a view
to improving and adapting its structure to enable it to discharge better
its sectoral responsibilities, including transport planning. Additional
improvements, however, are needed in transport planning, and the proposed
project will address this need through technical assistance (para. 38),
training (para. 40), and a study of the trucking industry (para. 38).
29.       During the 1971-75 Development Plan period, about 20 percent
of total public investment was allocated to the transport sector. Of
this, over two thirds was invested in highways. Although overall investments
were insufficient, considering the need, the direction given to the investment
program coincided with IDA's assessment of sector objectives and priorities.
Under the 1976-80 Development Plan, 43 percent of total public investment
was allocated to the transport sector. Of this, almost three quarters
was intended for the highways subsector. The financing of this Plan
was left almost entirely to foreign assistance, and at the time when
President Dacko came to power in late 1979, only about 10 percent of
the amount intended for the highways subsector had actually been invested.
Actual investments in the highways subsector in 1981, under the Rehabilitation
Program for 1980-81 (para. 16), were almost 70 percent of the planned
target, a significant improvement over performance under previous Plans.
The Road Subsector
30.       The CAR's classified road network consists of some 9,000 km,
of which about 450 km are paved. The larger, unclassified network (about
11,000 km) consists of seasonal feeder roads and earth tracks. About
one third of the classified network (3,079 km), plus 57 km of the unclassified
network, has been identified by the Government as the priority network
(Schedule 5 of the draft Development Credit Agreement), the rehabilitation
of which is most important for the country's economic recovery. For



- 9 -
this reason, scarce resources (national and foreign) are to be concentrated
on the priority network; about a third of it will be rehabilitated under
the proposed project.
31.       The density and the level of development of the road network
vary considerably throughout the country. Around Bangui and in the Oubangui
River catchment area in general, and also in the cotton areas in the north-
western part of the country, the road network is better developed, in terms
of both density and quality of roads. In contrast, the few roads in the
almost uninhabited north and northeastern parts of the country are relatively
undeveloped. Traffic density throughout most of the network is modest,
with fewer than 20 vehicles per day (vpd) on most roads. In contrast,
traffic densities are high on the paved roads which link Bangui to the
important economic and commercial regional centers. On the Bangui-M'Baiki
road, for example, traffic density is about 600 vpd near Bangui and on
the Bangui-Ymbi road, about 2,100 vpd.
32.       Although the Ministry of Transport has overall responsibilities
for transport-sector management, the Ministry of Public Works, through
DGTP, is responsible for the construction and maintenance of classified
roads. (The Ministry of Agriculture and local authorities maintain unclassi-
fied roads.) DGTP's administrative structure and organization are adequate,
but its staff of about 1,500 is undertrained relative to their responsibilities.
Some 900 are permanent employees; the other 600 are seasonal employees
hired to do mainly manual maintenance work. At the higher level, DGTP needs
more engineers, and many local managers need additional training to be
able to function effectively. About 70 percent of DGTP's lower-level
permanent staff (drivers, road construction foremen, technicians, overseers,
mechanics, equipment operators, accounting and administrative personnel)
have had no job training; only 25 percent have had even basic education.
The existing Public Works Training Center (CFPTP) trains foremen and
overseers but cannot provide the additional training needed because of
limited capacity, an insufficiently trained staff, outdated curricula,
and lack of equipment. Other donors have addressed specific training
needs but not the problem of training as a whole. The proposed project
will address the urgent problem of practical, job-related training for
most levels of DGTP's staff.
33.       During the 1970s, the Government undertook virtually no maintenance
of roads. Available financing was inadequate and was allocated mainly
to salaries.  Inadequate supervision meant that workers were seldom on
the job. Maintenance equipment was itself not maintained. Only recently
did the Government recommence road maintenance operations (para. 23),
and these only to a limited extent. The years of neglect explain the
present dilapidated state of the country's road network and the need
for rehabilitation--as well as the critical need for an adequate, long-
term maintenance program. During the preparation of the proposed project,
consultants elaborated the minimum size and requirements of a governmental
road maintenance program for the country's top-priority roads, taking
into consideration the absorptive capacity of the DGTP and the Government's
plans to rehabilitate the economy. France, Germany, and FED are presently
engaged in limited road-rehabilitation and maintenance activities on



- 10 -
several roads in the west of the country, with the intention of gradually
turning over the direction of these activities to DGTP. The road-maintenance
program prepared by the consultants for the Government will consolidate
these activities.
34.       Road maintenance operations are financed from the Ministry
of Public Works' Road Fund (para. 23), which is now functioning satisfactorily.
The Road Fund receives its revenues from a levy on the sale of motor
fuels; its resources are to be used entirely for the maintenance of the
priority network (para. 30). Since January 1981, the Road Fund is financially
and administratively autonomous, and the levy on motor fuels has been
increased twice to ensure adequate resources. The Government has increased
funding for the Road Fund above the level specified in the covenant under
the Third Highway Project. In order to ensure that the Road Fund continues
to operate satisfactorily and that it continues to be adequately funded,
the Government has agreed that: (a) the Fund will be maintained,
and no material change will be made in its organizational, financial,
and administrative structure without prior approval from the Association,
including the stipulation that its resources will be exclusively used
for maintenance expenditures on the priority network (Section 4.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (b) the levy on motor fuels
will be adjusted annually, not later than June of each year, so that
the revenues raised by the levy will at all times be sufficient to cover
the expenditures for maintenance of the priority networks (Section 4.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Similarly, the appointment
of a qualified full-time administrator of the Road Fund will be a condition
of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government has agreed to keep the position filled with
a qualified and experienced person for the duration of the project (Section
4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
35.       The CAR is heavily dependent on the trucking industry, which
is characterized by numerous private transporters owning one or a few trucks.
The better-equipped truckers are organized under the Groupement des Transporteurs
Centrafricains (GTC), which hauls most domestic cargo. The trucking industry
is in a state of flux: although it provides basic services, its performance
needs improving. Major deficiencies include poor terminal operations and
low fleet utilization. A study of the trucking industry to be provided
under the proposed project will provide recommendations to make the industry
more efficient and more responsive to the market. The Government and the
Association have agreed on terms of reference for the study, and the Government
has agreed (a) to carry out the study by June 30, 1983, (b) to propose
to the Association for its comments, by December 31, 1983, specific measures,
based on the study, to strengthen the trucking industry, and (c) to implement
these measures promptly thereafter (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       At the donors' meeting in Bangui in June 1980 (para. 16), the
donors agreed with the Government that the rehabilitation of the priority
road network to all-weather conditions and maintainable standards and
the re-establishment of an effective national road-maintenance capacity
were critical factors for reducing transport costs, facilitating trade,
evacuating exports, distributing imports, and, in general, speeding the
country's overall economic recovery. The Rehabilitation Program, however,
was short on details for project implementation. The Association agreed
to take the lead in sponsoring preparation of a road rehabilitation and
maintenance project, beginning with a PPF advance of US$490,000 extended
on December 5, 1980, and continuting with the Technical Assistance Project,
which includes a project-preparation component. The proposed project
was appraised in May 1981, and a post-appraisal mission visited Bangui
in December 1981. An initial cofinanciers' meeting, organized by the
Association, was held in Washington on October 5, 1981, and was attended
by representatives of the CAR, the Bank Group, France, the Federal Republic
of Germany, the Abu Dhabi Fund, the African Development Bank, and the
Opec Fund. At the meeting, the potential donors gave initial indications
of their possible contributions. Cofinancing arrangements were finalized
at a second cofinanciers' meeting, also organized by the Association,
which was held in Paris on April 26, 1982, and was attended by representatives
of the CAR, the Bank Group, and France (FAC), the Federal Republic of
Germany, BDEAC, the African Development Fund, and the Kuwait Fund. (The
Opec Fund did not send a representative but had earlier confirmed its
participation in cofinancing the project.) Negotiations were held in
Washington between April 28, 1982, and May 4, 1982, and the Government's
delegation was led by His Excellency Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Mapouka,
Minister of Public Works and Urban Affairs. Key events and special conditions
of the project are listed in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report No.
3797-CA, dated May 11, 1982, is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
37.       The major objective of the proposed project is to rehabilitate
and maintain the most important part of the CAR's priority road network
(para. 30). The project will also strengthen the institutional framework
necessary to ensure that once rehabilitated, this network could be largely
maintained by national personnel with local funds.
Project Description
38.       The project will include the following components:
(a)   rehabilitation of 1,217 km of gravel roads of the priority
network, to facilitate the effective supply of inputs to,
and evacuation of production from, the key coffee- and
cotton-growing areas;



- 12 -
(b)   reconstruction and resealing of the already paved (under
the IDA-assisted First Highway Project) but seriously
deteriorated Bangui-M'Baiki road (102 km), also part
of the priority network;
(c)   reconstruction to a two-lane standard of the once
paved but seriously deteriorated Bangui-Ymbi road (6.5
km), the major access road to Bangui from the north;
(d)   provision and repair of equipment needed to maintain
the rehabilitated roads, and construction of buildings
and other facilities to support maintenance activities;
(e)   consultants' services to supervise the rehabilitation and
reconstruction activities (117 man-months), and technical
assistance to ensure effective road maintenance (99 man-
months), ensure effective equipment maintenance (103 man-
months), promote the development of small rural road-maintenance
contractors (32 man-months),carry out a study of the operations
of the trucking industry (3 man-months), and promote trans-
portation planning (26 man-months); and
(f)   training of national personnel.
39.       The technical assistance to promote the development of small
rural road-maintenance contractors (para. 38(e)) will focus on about
500 km of roads in a selected district. Candidate contractors will be
selected from the communities along these 500 km. These candidates will
receive on-the-job training in managing small groups of workers to carry
out road-maintenance activities from a road-maintenance expert experienced
in labor-intensive road maintenance and provided under the project.
The best of the candidates will receive routine road-maintenance contracts
with DGTP; they will continue to be supervised and receive on-the-job
training from the expert provided under the project. The Government
has agreed to award routine maintenance-works contracts to the selected
contractors (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
If successful, this pilot scheme could eventually be expanded to ensure
the effective maintenance of most of the country's rural roads.
40.       Training.  Immediate short-term training of nationals (390
man-months) will be provided in Bangui in the CFPTP (para. 32), to be
renovated and re-equipped under the project. The CFPTP's training capacity
will be strengthened through provision of three training experts (84
man-months): a highway engineer, an experienced mechanic, and a highway
technician. After 1985, the trained personnel will be expected to assume
responsibility for most of the road maintenance operations. Medium-
and long-term training needs will be met through training abroad, where
practicable in those Francophone countries of West Africa where adequate
facilities exist. The Government has agreed that it will: (i) carry
out training in accordance with a training program satisfactory to
the Association; (ii) annually review with the Association the activities
undertaken during the previous year and the proposed training activities



- 13 -
for the next year; (iii) make, as and when needed, such adjustments in
the training program as shall be necessary (Section 3.04(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); and (iv) provide or continue to provide
employment for all students of DGTP staff who successfully complete their
fellowship programs or training programs abroad (Section 3.04(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
41.       The plans for project implementation take into account the lessons
learned from earlier projects in the sector (para. 23). Three key posts-
-an Advisor to the Minister of Public Works, the Deputy Director General
of Public Works, and the Administrator of the Road Fund (para. 34)--were
created by the Government to assist in coordinating and implementing the
project and to help in carrying out the road maintenance program.  Two
of the posts are presently staffed by technical assistants being financed
by France (the Advisor to the Minister of Public Works and the Deputy Director
General of Public Works). The third position (the Administrator of the
Road Fund) is currently being administered on a temporary basis by the
same expert who is also the Deputy Director of Public Works, but a permanent
and full-time Administrator is expected to be identified soon, since one
person cannot do both jobs over an extended period of time. His appointment
is a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 34). The Federal Republic
of Germany has agreed to finance this post. The Government has provided
assurances that it will maintain these posts, regardless of the source
of financing, and keep them filled at all times with qualified and experienced
personnel (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement). The Ministry
of Public Works, through DGTP, will supervise the rehabilitation and recon-
struction works, all of which will be carried out by contractors. The
Government has selected a single firm, acceptable to the Association, which
will provide supervision of the IDA-financed works. The contract with
this firm provides for optional supervisory capacity, to be used by other
co-donors or not, as they wish. The technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport, including the trucking industry study, will be implemented
by the Ministry of Transport through its Directorate of Studies and Documenta-
tion. DGTP will implement the training component of the proposed project
through its Administrative Directorate. Project implementation is expected
to begin in late 1982, and civil works are expected to be substantially
completed by the end of 1985, although technical assistance will continue
until the end of 1987.
42.       Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the project, net of
taxes but including contingencies, is estimated at US$48.1 million equivalent,
with foreign costs of about US$39.9 million (83 percent of total project
cost net of taxes). The Government intends to exempt all project components
from taxes, except for fuel.  During the rehabilitation works, fuel would
be purchased by individual contractors, who would pay the levy on motor
fuels (para. 34). This cost would thus be reflected in their contract
costs. The estimated total amount paid as fuel levy is insignificant,
however. Cost estimates for civil works are based on a consultant's
study which takes into consideration past bids for rehabilitation and
other similar works; the estimates have been updated for inflation.
Costs of equipment and spare parts are based on supplier quotations.



- 14 -
The cost of an average man-month of technical assistance is estimated
at US$9,700, including salaries, overhead, housing, and travel. Costs
for training abroad are estimated at $1,700 per man-month including travel
of trainees but excluding salaries. Physical contingencies are estimated
at 15 percent of the base costs for road works and 10 percent for technical
assistance, buildings, and most equipment. Local price contingencies
are estimated at the rate of 12 percent per year through 1987. Price
contingencies for the foreign costs are estimated at 7.5 percent per
year for the period 1983-85 and 6.0 percent for the period 1986-87.
Total contingencies are US$10.2 million, or 27 percent of the base costs
net of taxes, of which price contingencies are US$6.2 million or about
16 percent of base costs net of taxes.
43.       Foreign sources, including IDA, will provide US$44.0 million
equivalent, or 91 percent of total project cost net of taxes (95 percent
of foreign costs and 74 percent of local costs). The project has been
designed on a modular basis for the purpose of cofinancing arrangements,
supervision, and procurement; each module/package can be implemented
independently, with flexibility in the execution schedules. The proposed
financing plan is given in Annex IV.
44.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$18.0 million will finance 37
percent of total project cost net of taxes (38 percent of foreign costs
and 33 percent of local costs). The proposed Credit will be used to
finance: (i) technical assistance, including technical assistance for
local training; (ii) the rehabilitation of the Bambari-Bangassou and
Sibut-Sido roads; (iii) tools and equipment for the pilot road-maintenance
scheme using small rural contractors (para. 39); and (iv) buildings and
office equipment for the DGTP. The effectiveness of the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreement (fo finance the rehabilitation of the Sibut-Bambari road)
and of the African Development Fund Credit Agreement (reconstruction
of the Bangui-M'Baiki road and provision of equipment for road maintenance)
will be conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Sections 6.01
(b) and (c), respectively, of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
These components, together with those to be financed by IDA and by the
Government, are judged critical to the overall success of the project.
The components to be financed by the Kuwait Fund, the ADF, IDA, and the
Government represent $37.2 million equivalent, or 77 percent of total
project cost.
45.       The Government will contribute $4.1 million equivalent, or
9 percent of total project cost net of taxes. The Government would finance
complementary works for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
seven roads included in the project, and would also contribute to the
local training component. In addition to its $4.1 million equivalent
contribution to the project, the Government will finance an estimated
US$7.4 million equivalent (not part of the project) for road maintenance
during 1983-85. The Government will thus be making a substantial effort
in the road sector; it has limited capacity to raise additional revenues
for the sector. It is, therefore, reasonable that donors should finance
91% of the proposed project's costs net of taxes.



- 15 -
Procurement
46.       Contracts for rehabilitation of the Bambari-Bangassou and Sibut-
Sido gravel roads will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Contracts for building construction and renovation will be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable
to the Association. Hand tools and office and miscellaneous equipment
may be procured through limited international tendering on the basis of
offers from at least three suppliers. The award of contracts for project
components not financed by the Association will follow the procurement
procedures of the respective donors. In accordance with Bank Group Guidelines,
the Government selected a single firm (para. 41) to provide technical assistance
for the whole project, including consultants for supervision of works,
assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, assistance to the Ministry
of Transport, and training. Consultants to undertake the trucking industry
study will also be chosen in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Disbursement and Reporting
47.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$18.0 million will be disbursed
over six years to cover 100 percent of the contract costs of those components
listed in para. 44 (US$13.5 million). The sum of US$4.5 million equivalent
(representing contingencies) will remain unallocated. All disbursement
applications will be fully documented. It is reconnended that the IDA
Credit provide for retroactive financing of 35 man-months of technical
assistance totalling up to US$360,000 to prepare implementation of the
project and to start implementation of the road maintenance program.
The proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the middle of 1988.
The Government has agreed to submit a progress report to the Association
at regular intervals and a project completion report within six months
after physical completion of works (Section 3.06(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Auditors acceptable to the Association will be employed
to audit project accounts and those of the Road Fund (Section 4.01(c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
48.       About 90 percent of the quantified project benefits consist
of reduced vehicle operating costs. The balance is mainly the value
added by increased cotton production which otherwise could not be evacuated.
The considerable unquantified project benefits include cargo and passenger
journey time savings, increased road safety, the possibility of evacuating
perishable cash crops and staples, dependable year-round access, regeneration
of economic activities in the zones of influence of the roads, and the
integration of these areas into the mainstream of CAR's economy. Project
beneficiaries (about half of the country's population lives in the zones
of influence of the project roads) will be widespread, since high transport
costs will be reduced between the capital and its populated agricultural
hinterland. In addition, the CAR's exports, which are sensitive to transport
costs, will benefit and become more competitive in foreign markets.
Improved access throughout the priority network is expected to increase
competition among truckers, which will benefit domestic consumers in



- 16 -
the form of stable supply and lowered cost of staples in urban areas.
A not inconsiderable additional benefit will be the development of DGTP's
capacity to execute and manage road-maintenance operations. Finally,
the project will ensure the needed start in improving transport planning.
49.       The overall estimate of the economic rate of return is 29 percent.
The estimated economic rate of return to investments in paved roads is
28 percent and to unpaved roads is 30 percent. The economic rates of
return for individual roads vary between 17 percent and 38 percent.
Sensitivity tests show that even in the unlikely event that the cost
of civil works increased by 20 percent simultaneously with a 20 percent
drop in benefits, the overall rate of return will still be a satisfactory
18 percent.
Risks
50.       The works will be carried out by contractors and do not present
any abnormal risks, as they will be executed according to established engineer-
ing practices and supervised by competent consultants. However, although
the Road Fund has been restructured and the Government has increased funding
above the level specified in the covenant under the Third Highway Project
(para. 35), there is some risk that funds for maintenance of the upgraded
network might be inadequate. To minimize this risk, the Government has
taken considerable pains to establish an autonomous, effectively functioning
Road Fund, and the Government has confirmed that the Road Fund levy will
be adjusted periodically as necessary to provide the funds necessary to
maintain the priority road network (para. 35).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Central
African Republic and the Association, as well as the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
53.       Special conditions of Credit effectiveness will be that (a) a
qualified and experienced permanent Administrator of the Road Fund shall
have been appointed (Section 6.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement);
and (b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreement and the ADF Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled,
except the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement (Sections
6.01(b) and (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by M. Qureshi
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1982



-16-                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                      Page  1  of  5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEXAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            623.0
AGRICULTURAL     59.1                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                110.0       150.0    290.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     37.9        74.8      55.1                 70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 1289.0      1601.0   1952.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7       31.1      39.9                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       2.1         2.6       3.1                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    22.0        27.0      32.3                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        38.7        39.7      40.8                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                        57.9        56.7      55.4                 52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.5         3.7       3.8                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.4         2.2       2.2                  2.6                     2.8
URBAN                             4.9         5.3       5.0                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.1        44.9      44.4                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.7        24.7      21.1                 19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.6         2.8       2.9                  3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       100.0    101.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  96.0        98.0      99.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         42.0        44.0      46.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      11.0        12.0      12.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    42.5        36.4      30.1                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.9        39.6      43.5                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      16.0                 23.9                    27.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      40.0                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0                1.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        72.0        ..                 26.2
URBAN                              ..        64.0        ..                 63.5
RURAL                              ..        96.0        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        41580.6    38119.0  17613.2                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2755.2      1383.8   1555.8                3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           682.4       461.6    625.9                1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                           584.8       541.3    530.3                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                           717.5       441.5    778.9                1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        21.6
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             3.9          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             3.4          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
-19-                                                      Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)_
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 32.0         65.0      78.0                  56.4                      73.7
MALE                  53.0        88.0      101.0                  70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                12.0        42.0       55.0                  50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0          4.0       9.0                  10.0                      16.2
MALE                   2.0         7.0       14.0                  13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                0.3          2.0        3.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  10.0          12.0       8.0/d                  8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         63.0      67.0                  46.5                      36.2
SECONDARY                          25.0         22.0         ..                 25.5                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         7.0/c         ..         ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          3.9       5.2                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.3         28.7      42.8                  32.8                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.1                   1.9                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.4          0.3         ..                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3           0.3        ..                   1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       778.4        924.0    1071.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   49.0         48.3      47.5                  34.1                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              94.1         91.3      88.3                  80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  1.8          2.5       3.8                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                60.4         57.7      54.9                  41.7                      37.2
MALE                                 63.2         81.2      58.9                  54.3                      47.1
FEMALE                               57.7         54.4      51.1                  29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.7          0.8       0.8                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF, HOUSEHOLDS     ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                136.0                     381.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      49.0                  84.5                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
.LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         .                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      91.0                  61.2                     137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1975.
May, 1981



- 20 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
.EFINITIONS itt topc:A PINDI_oORt
N-tes   Although the d.a are drao   f-o  souces ge..enaiiy lodged the  -otatoiaiead reitabe. it should  is- be noted tiha  they oat cat he iCte-
tatIic-aiy   bolehi  becaus.e of tie lack of  tand-roiced dafiCiiCots  and conc.epts usd ho diffe..ent counrie  in c                     ctgtIle data.  The data art, totie-
ehIte t, .f.t1u cc descibe ord-r  ofngitd,indictet  ereda, and caane ecertin  -J.or differenCac hatettt.  outIe..
Tieceeet    ocme   M  toeaoauccygropoIfthet-bj-ecnounryaa ..   () accoonoy grtuyo~inhaome.nhetthigher,t--ge     - toth..iaohe c.Ctntregtoup
of_tettatccr    cto    o   Ct ltrn   Cii iny2--te  group oh-r  Vtiddis Iecoe North Africa aod Middle Eaut'  is  hoe h etaued                                       of stranger
nelotity  of tie  loirtee  its  troopis, data foe thattodcaon    Oit   h    aerg   footr          mn   h  tadr ieo-h Idepends ond the-o .iatty   cih dat
Total - Itoti  utaeolosrlig   td area and iolecd  -eatrs                                               urba, ad rural) dicidad by nhite  rep-ctoc   nohar of h-noc  badeI
cactounacal    tstiane  ofa gr-oiure  area  ..ed  emporarti  or C  peeransctiy                 acilabt  It pubiuC acd pi-mte  tace.ral  -cu  ,epet_led batpteanr-
toncros,poeort,  acen  edkitie t arc   cc noli  talon; 1979 dana.                              _atiainenr. tsnseaasalssnapruety stafe
hi at leoat one phyipitia.  S-btahi-tacn   prodding picpiynac
itt et   AIA01 Et?  parcapt  e-nceae   en curreto  enket price. ca1-                                      dia  car  ae not inciuded.R.ursI hospital,    ocs,  include heal eh
cletad by earn corer tion -abd  -m World tack Atlas  (1977-79 casts); 1960                            end edicm       . catatano .pe.ee.ectly  -tafted by a phyttiat, (hn hyA
197,ucd it7) data.                                                                                   ned iolaesan   areaidaite   en.l ohbc  tfeaIta-cne.
ENitGY lONSUTyPTtOt Pit CAPITA A- -ecu lccuArttoc- otcoaf             it ecerg ~v(coal                   ItCa   purpose   ten hopitals  nld   mt   rnccltaea    oyteI.,
atdilnn,erlom                aougaa-dibedrc-,cuclee -on gaocthr eieec                                  adrur...I h.pitetioei.l ot-ruralbneri-alaadsedicalan.dotnern IY
cnityl, ICr ktlgcaa  cf coal eu-alern  par -apita; l1t6, 1970, aol 1979                                ett.tScAiaiedihsp  al Iattotdel only under total
d.ta odisosprtsti  ted  - TonalI camber ofanmlt   c  rdahre
tote hospittis dii.add he the  cante  of bede.
POPI.ATlIO 1 Olt clot~ SIulATniSt
T.,lPclico   edia    tca:s   As of July 1; I960. 1971, and 1979                                   HOUftING
dlata                                                                                             h-Cerea  lien- oftu5       d (prospr uChcld( - tota. ucbhc, and rura  -
Erbitlooato   (pre f o  ttul) -                    ,afitf urban to  cnI   ppuar1 a                     A Ioas:ho   rosen    laru   of  inmidua. a eh' abat                           .... etr
dietttnt  at cutor  cCorhbema nay aoffec   -cps-aility of dat.edchi  sum   ae..I                                        A boarder ccla   rsy  -tmo  act he: Icludedi
smocg cotCna ; 1091, 171, unt17hdn.                                                                        ho...ehcld forsaitceCupes
Ptvuiaccot Proleoticca                                                     ~~~~~Acetate nuoher of cetan  nec  ton-cne.l theb.en, drar..IA,etegna
ycrubuuonltnar lol-laccnt pcolattcptc~acicneae  heseonlb        h                   ber of reaa peecom Falc ban                  ateelcupecaetiata
Ing ilte  -opcra..cya   birth i-ct-stg elih contttly'a Per caIta tocoa                          Iceeolceolr(ac                       f d-eilinee      C tona, oba    a   ma 
Int.l, nnd Inmle lit aeoycrny tblilbing ac 11.5 yPars.  ti    aa                                    naenoa    eelasathlocot in licint guarters at :percenag
cerernfoe lentl la  rac "A.-c  a, thre Aensa asunti  dec,iat It                            of naal-    uba,   an   urldafneepecniniy
E,hct...tey acorin  tcIchn-fa cdpstfmlypattt   petomar.iy                                     ELCTO
and fnttibbi'  nrendu ion pc)ctc   pyoe.Adlumiadfuoietatn
ttatlosrc yeuiatoo - I    -aiant..tey popuIlatio   thece Iann.grnunh aice                   Prarrnhal - no-ai  na             -ed (tele - Aros  tota, naT  ad foteln             ,
th,ehirhtf.eatIAtqma1ltot~hedeathrae.a daisnn heagemrutu.t.te.                                       aaelltetofCigcsnheplaye                          u     pacnae f reapcit
malts oaaanI         t   aatea    tpttrfrl rrtedcien                                                 potmary school-age. p.ul.t.      a   tomiyildncil  e   td n-1l
th   alctn    ene   fuanttpedItt  at   bt each gyceai                                     far  hut adjueted fcr dtffentlngh   fpiaedu-tnica; tot
amaha  bet  nuced                                                                          usaly o  i  to11yeae  f ate  coraofe ece  ousa  t  grtat
Jo,eto  -latatec                     e--acluded."
toalera;it)  1911 and i97 deathe.   h    e                e               .4 i                        pw-iudencgti...       Indetral  oraae  pagaa  hop oean ldy
Peean   a.e a....ta   td-Copndaaht   o  eeclualln                                                      aly   an ea  d     17raet  o.f aeedr   ntttce
only  190. 1970 uc 1970 -doe                                                                      fuatd-i-ne. eharraio -, tid.r.lil aa   sehnodart-Moa   stud etenailedpind
...nu.iani   cA,s cuae (pren)-ibldrec  (0-14 ysare), a-rking-age  (Ii-                                  PCeIsAp And scnaylcl  diolded by ccnbera of  -teheas It the
h4 year). Acd Crird(I  yaa-s acd  -el) as p-rCttnget of aid-yAr rapt-                                  Ccress.ndieg  lesl.1
lati-a  lt60, 191. sd 199Mto dlt itnetary rats (percent). - L--naeeAdulne  (able to read a.d erin)
PotulatlnironC        aeiecn  - oal-oatau   growth nates of total mOd-                                    pserrnentage  of natal adult popclaiaa aged i)Y. fermadanr
rea  ppoanoc   fan 1970-6A, 1990-71., td lf-t
P-tltimGcnhlte (rercenI, -ubiac   dacal  rch r.ete  of -tbsn gara-                                ifttlWTlIt
..cs  c  1000-91, 1960-70, t_d 1971-7-9.                                                    PePne.cr..e.hosn.rnl iw      rssger C.Crs                            .P inars    ao
irodelimblace(eect)ouacd(- Aact-1 lIce-  birtha per nhu....d of eld-peat                      oa..s.n letahon eight per....n; anCludeeabla t  hease  atd
pcpclatiot; 1906, 1910, end 1979 data,                                                              nil tary tehinles
CudelDeathtaca(,et th-cAed( -ntu-              deaths pnatbahuas..deofeid-yea.                       Redia tecelcete. (erithoau-dtpcrulsto-) - Allnrty-of eacei.... farra.dio
yapulenAct.; l9bi, 1971, andC1919decA.                                                               hadssng...ersI tuliope t--housand of papalanion; soiudes mc-
i.... Retecducltn tteA rae              noaebr of daughtenAa ota  till ben  it                          iene   tenel-re  Incontl    ad In pyar  whe   Cgienaino   a
hen norma  reyraduonice pta    tseeptAcepesnag-efia  ICt-                                            e..i . wasin  sfn;idata fan aCent. yeses oty not beopee it  ice
tiitny     .. racs;utalyI tc-ytaergsadiga16.lt,an19.satcountries aholishd ltoeesig.                                                                
fntlnf la.tn ta -uACcI....co (hosade)  l-la 1ua                     _,_ of acceptan                  TltIasrltsrP_ttau..sndaa....             a)ni  r-eeIer  fotra-edcsttId
ci ' bitb-Contou  device  urd    euspic_. of nnin              _ aily plwtt   rgtm,emeeg  puli  pe  basa p,,t,                     'P.....t  saudeeltnsgTVrc -nrs
Psnilyflenlna-lsea loerceo  cfmorrldeodenl- ernotngeafaarntd                            tcuaes dnysrsh..eitetoofbetAa lefrn
cf ocld-narlgegr711-W  petel  ho aebtrth-cocteol da-i.e. no                      tetttritoina    Ptrtosn                     nauw       bt   he  -eaga tIn-
ail dmrto Ione   cemeaogopcuntctdily gnralitesnweee,  eied                                                                                                             _aeiadlc-l
Ill datlo tPlOhIlITtt                                                         no hel daily ifI  appean  a tos  fm t,ime  ans                     It I
iadea cC fond Poduotico oat Ceti---  1960--tli -I toAst of per capita eCiitem  Annua  Attedance tee   it.e ret fea   -                                        -Ise  Ct the n-mbI of
Ia ot calendar ynr basis.  Comeditlnauovec.   pri_ar   gaod   e.g. eug .can                          anCobile   ais
instead  ofsgt   hich  le ellbl e ed con tain            tete(..Coffas end
tea raeatldd).  A gfegate pr-d-irtc  of eah cootry Ia ha...d on                                 f.Ath FitCE
uaniCv-t   --nnon  tanOotw  paitmegtit           hib 19     0165, I, _tO  1979 dens.               nte;~l labta toni  lnhnueandml-tnoiu                 cispnt    including
fey ceona suctc of caoelew (eecsno  t renutsmsntsl- fampued fea                     sawed  orcea ad.unempoyeddhufeariadng to--Pelnys,bsudent,leec.
ncaIgy enmicec  of1 ca  foo d  ..ppliea  -nilable in coutry pat capita                            tn-ertg pnpolantan of eli aga .  P,etinltm... In  eit.ounre    t
pnda.   uAllbese ee cuaRrisa donetti produr tian, lmptrt  less                                  en - ap-tbi; 19f0, 1970 and 1979 dat..
amot,adcine inecb.tttPplits  nctde anima  feed, sed,                                      Femal (Oner...t  - Female1Ibar force  as percntge of tcnn1 isbor force.
iuntteeued Ic food proceetcg  an  losse  ft d1-nibutian. tRttuiee-                        Atfclie  er n   - lbor farce ta fe-tag, tor-ete, hmnttag and
maswrreimaeted by FAO tame.d on phyaiola.giCal ..ode for  -oema  nn-                       fishiag as perten...g.  of nte  labor farce; 1960, 1970 Add 19(9 dana.
ntty ud teatch co...idering envirtnm-m,.l teprur,body eeighta, age                              Induet,c teee         -      Co force In ating,  osec  n,  aaane
and sn dJm:rlhbtion  of ppolatioc, and allowing 10 perCeot for eases an                           and el-nninity, meese end gusA           ecetg       f totalb-ha   fort; 1960,
itusetolO  lacnl; lttl-bi,%l, and 1977 den.                                                1911 mad 1919 dens..
fer canta soeleuf trneln (nans cP.  day)      eni otn   dpecpt                          Psetineaspa  late R lteens...t  - ntal,l male  e-d femals-PIa...nc tti,a on
ne"uI    l  0tfod  a  day,  Net.sopply of food asidnflaed us sbt.-   R-                           atticityeInesarenoCun-da  naal  ml, an   oasiebnn  fevlte
qucmta1ra1C__oties eatabhiahed by USDA  provide fot- etatt                              Parl...itges of  ona, mle msd femal  papa1anict of al  age  tepetii;
Iloar    f 61 gra ctoepettpedaan11gesOnnmlad1961.17,0                                                       n   97   aa   Thes  we  basedonPtpsnnpaare s
pr!e   o_al,  f  ttbi   11gas-  ecold beanms  protin.   These saad-                            reflecting   ge-sea  . s-tenore atthe  nplet            odlogties  trnd   tA
arda ace         ,h.c.ba  tio... of 7t trains at naalpoti  ed 03 grams of.fe  esimate  are temneima   wi
animal proitei  as an. t...g far ebtn-ld, proposed hr tAO  Ic the Thied                         tnaamn sp-d1       c  lati   -  `tisl  of popusloIC  under 19 and 65 and aer,
orlO  fod SorveyP; 1961-65, 1971  -cd 1977 dana.                                                   to  the tota (1ahoMr tnc.
roved  from ,,  numaI a aud pa1.ti Ia gnu  prda;161-9, 197  andI:17dst.                         ItNiOi  DISTyhIBLt51o
itd(gs1-t   toninylt Ine n2inc=andO  - -caI deaths pe  thousan d It                          fecnag   ffinane Inom   Iboti It cah and ktndl - Racai-ad by etohst
age gnoup 1-1 yeas,tchlilT-e   intabcs age grumP; for motd-cloping Coca                              5 pre    e             0enT  p-nc.-ntP...pors  TI pecn.sd p--ras  Al  -eeet
,ctae data dentled fr.s litf  tables  intl. 1970 and 1979 dana.                                      af hauseha1ds.
Lle tapect..   at Ljth_niIrs-s)       -mrg   ubsr of peace of life  remiileg                        The fail1wieg ei       -eeae nary         .. ppmim-n  moueec  p-cry levela.
athri  19 61, 1970 Aad 1979 dan.                                                                sndebald be interpreted with c..eiden-blensti
ae ag  perthouand  ive   irtha.                                                               Abstiut pa-teny inc-elei   ittht  orm   lenel bnmme nbich A nialeal
dorse  notg   ae   oreatC(-    . at ...eolstltt(        b-toa.    e..ad taaa1 - N-a                    nutitionall  adeoet  diet PI-a eenilno- fond ret1oie-tnt  In not
hnopepo(total, aebar, and rural) etiCneas h               .....s tO safe                     atfordsble.
mate  sch as then frt. protected b-rehales, springs,. end...eIns                           ~         gRalreatvepaterny itoae lens  Is  eon-third of paegscao -pits
nfcbeirrespech taepupuletiras.  I.eturhasaeee-                       bli         p             erenna.I fatam   at ebe Conmey.  Urban ieva  Is derivedfta t,:.he   eall
IIameal  at ensdpon  located nto  mare thon 20l0eet  frm               house may he                  lee   wIhC     jenetfrhhrcs  at lining  inubaI_ es
trasber of peapis (notei, unhat, and eansl) seened by entrees db-sPpnsslo   p.p as..   -b-   n                                                               let
oftbatessoly   onpolniam.   ftenedisosa  say thelh.de
tsclntom  aend  ;disy pse,.wt  n       Pteebu   tessnsemt. c   ua   nau                                                               cneredfca   asOnam
ad  mee-as   byenrbrsseeao   luea   pIn fprivisssa  sthI.unnoAayi   edPoenoePpn
isrtaetsllsttots.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~pot"
Aorusito  tar r-t.  ictat - fapuietta   dAb     d   hr.. eu-    at1 rrbrt icun   -btt                                                      -                     rit
cLns-.o qasicle ra  IMad ital scn an umivrndtby ml.. -dp..1
feaienan  sp  arsng Persn   lPepistdiu diided by ,eb me  of --ictiapyimg
sale and femal  grduan  Iurses, practical auss,ad .s..sts-n



-21-                                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SllEET
(in billions of current CFAF)
GDP Growth Rateo in %
(at constant 1977 prices)
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
A.   National Accounts
1.  GDP                                                 107.0      121.4      132.8      142.7     164.2      187.0        3.5      4.1     1.8    -5.6    -0.8    -1.0
2. Consumption                                            99.6     116.2      128.7      143.3      166.2     191.0
3.  Gross Iovestment                                      12.9      14.4       15.0       14.6       16.8      17.7
4.    Public investment                                    9.1      10.2        8.7       11.1       10.8      13.1
5.    Private Investment                                   3.8       4.2        6.3        3.5        4.0       4.6
6.  Domestic Savings   1                                   7.4       5.2        4.1       -0.6       -2.0      -4.0
7. Exports, incl. NFS -                                  28.4       36.0       38.7       37.6      48.1       41.4
B.  Imports, itol. NFS                                   -33.9     -45.2      -49.6      -52.8     -66.9      -63.1
9.  GDP (in millions of ourrent $)                      457.3      494.1      588.7      670.9      777.1     692.6
B.   Sector Output
Value Added                                              107.0     121.4      132.8      142.7      164.2     187.0      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
1.  Agriculture                                          41.6       46.8       49.9       51.5      60.3       69,7       38.9    38.6    37.6    36.1    36.7    37.3
2.  Industry                                              17.3      20.1       21.9       22.7      24.4       24.6       16.2    16.6    16.5    15.9    14.9    13.2
3.  Services                                             48.1       54.5       61.0       68.5      79.5       92.7       44.9    44.8    45.9    48.0    48.4    49.5
C.   Public Finance
1.  Budget Revenue                                       15.4       18.4       18.8       25.9      28.4       28.3
Of which:  Tax receipts                             (13.0)    (16.0)    (17.0)    (19.3)    (20.9)    (22.5)
Gracts                                    (1.8)     (1.6)      (1.0)      (5.8)     (7.0)      (4.9)
2.  Current Expenditure (itol. interest)                 17.5       21.0       22.7       27.4      29.5       30.2
3.  Capital Eupenditure                                    1.3       1.9        2.2        0.5       1.0        1.6
4.  Budgetary Deficit                                     -3.5      -4.5       -6.1       -2.0      -2.1       -3.5
5.  Fisancing                                              3.5       4.5        6.1        2.0       2.1        3.5
Banking syster                                      0.6        0.5        2.7       0.3        1.8        5.0
Central Bank                                      -         (0.5)     (1.2)      (0.2)       -          -
flip Facilities and Trust Fund                   (0.6)      (-)       (1.5)      (0.1)       -          -
Non-bank                                            2.6        2.4        2.8       0.9       -0.3       -0.9
Euternal Arrears                                    0.3        1.6        0.6       0.8        0.6       -0.6
Average Annual Growth Rates
D.   Monetary Survey                                                                                                                           1976-1981
]. Money and Quasi-Money                                  19.3      20.5       22.5       27.1      36.6       40.82                        16.2
2.  Dsoestic Credit                                      22.6       25.5       30.2       27.4      37.1       37.8                         10.8
Credit to Public Sector                             9.7       10.8      12.0       11.8       13.7       17.2
Credit to Private Sector                           12.9       14.7      18.2       15.6       23.4      20.6
3. Money end Quasi-Money as /. of GDP                    18.0       16.9       16.9       19.0      22.3       21.8
4.  Domestic Credit as S of GDP                          21.1       21.0       22.7       19.2      22.6       20.2
1/   uIcluding unrecorded dia-ond and ivory ecports.                                                                                                Apil 1982
2/   Jun-  1981.



- 1- 
-22-                                                      ANNIEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAThEiNTS
(in millions of US current dollars)
Estimates
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980        1981
Exports, incl. NFS                                                                              108.5       132.2       148.6       154.8       208.0       143.0
I=ports, incl. NFS                                                                             -144.9      -184.0      -219.9      -248.2      -316.6     -233.7
Resource Balance                                                                               - 36.4      - 51.8      - 71.3      - 93.4      -108.6      - 90.7
Factor Services (set)                                                                          -  1.7      -  2.5      - 0.4       -  9.7         1.7         4.9
Net Investmnt Snooze                                                                         -  1.7      -  1.6         0.4      -  8.9         2.4         5.6
Interest on Public Debt                                                                         -           0 0.9    -  0.8      -  0.8     -  0.7      -  0.7                          S
Other Interest
Workers' Re-ittances
Other
Current Transfers (private)                                                                    - 4.3       -  0.8      - 4.4       -  9.4      - 28.9     -22.2
Current Account Balance (excluding public transfers)                                           - 42.4      - 55.1      - 76.1      -112.5      -135.8     -108.0
Public Transfers (net)                                                                           46.2        35.4        48.8        87.0       112.2        87.0
Private Capital (net)                                                                              3.8        3.7        13.3        34.3         4.7         9.3
Public M & L Tens Loans                                                                          17.1         6.1         -        -  7.0        31.2        20.8
Disbursements                                                                                 (17.1)       (6.1)       ()          (5.2)      (37.4)     (25.2)
Repay-ents                                                                                     (-)         ()          (-       (  12.2)   (-  6.2)   (-  4.4)
Capital n.e.i.                                                                                     -          -           6.9         2.4        13.3        0.4
(Trust Fund)                                                                                    -           -          (6.9)        -         (9.5)        -
(SDR)                                                                                           -           -                      (2.4)      (3.8)       (3.0)
(Subscription of Capital BDEAC)                                                                 _           -           -                 -    _        -  2.6)
Short Tenm Capital                                                                             - 10.3        10.2      -  8.4         3.3         6.6     -  0.4
ESonrc  and Omissions                                                                             1.4         0.1         4.4         -       -19.9           0.2
Increase in Reserves (+)                                                                         15.8         0.4      - 11.1         7.5       12.3 %-  8.9
Level of Net Foreign Assets (end year)                                                            4.0      -  4.6      - 10.9        15.3        30.5       35.8/
late of Exchange                                                                                234.0       245.7       225.6       212.7      211.3       270.0
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(in millions of US current dollars)
Share in . of Total
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Exports, f.o.b.                                                82.5      116.4      123.2     122.2      139.6       95.9     100      100      100     100      100     100
Coffee                                                       18.4      44.0       35.5       32.4       32.2      21.9       22.2    37.8    28.8    26.5    23.1    22.8
Diamonds                                                     14.5      22.4       36.8       38.1       39.3      25.9       17.6    19.2    29.9    31.2    28.2    27.0
Cotton                                                       21.4       19.5      12.9       11.3       15.6      10.0       25.9    16.8    10.5       9.2    11.1    10.4
Timber                                                       18.4      18.7       24.4       27.7       33.1      24.1       22.3    16.1    19.8    22.7    23.7    25.1
Tobacco                                                       5.6        7.7       7.5        5.2        5.7       5.2        6.8      6.6     6.1      4.3     4.1      5.4
Other                                                         4.2        4.1       6.1        7,5       13.7       8.8        5.1      3.5     5.0      6.1     9.8      9.2
EXTERNAL DEBT, Decemher 31, 1981
(in millions of US dollars)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                               236.2
Total Outstanding and Disbursed                             236.2
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1981
Public Debt, excluding arrears                                3%
Public Debt, including arrears                              251
IBRD/IDA Lending, February 28, 1982
(US$ Million)
Outatanding and Disbursed                                   39.6
Undisbursed                                                   6.8
46.4                                                                               April 1982
1/   In 1980 and 1981 the French Treasury made paymente to Chadian nationals through the Central Bank in Bangui, equivalent to US$7.6 million and US$11.9 million
respectively. The adjosted C.A.R. overall balanee of payments reads therefore US$4.7 million in 1980 and US$-3 million in 1981.
21   End June 1981.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1982)
Credit                                                         Amount (US$ million)!/
Number       Year        Borrower        Purpose               Total    Undisbursed
Five Credits have been fully disbursed.                         28.7
894-CA      1979          CAR           Livestock               2.5        2.0
1074-CA      1980          CAR           Third Highway
Sup. Financing          4.5        0.8
1150-CA      1981          CAR           Technical
Assistance              4.0        3.4
TOTAL         39.7       6.2
- of which has been repaid:           0.2
- now outstanding:                   39.5
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.
1/ Less cancellations



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C. Projects in Execution -
Credit No. 847-CA      Highways III Project:  US$15.5 Million Credit of
November 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 1074-CA    Supplementary Financing for Highways III Project:
3.5 Million SDRs Credit of December 24, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consisted of the reconstruction and paving of the
Bangui-Bossembele road (145 km), the construction of a two-lane bridge
over the M'Bali river, and the provision to the Directorate-General of
Public Works of consultants' services for engineering and supervision
works. Civil works on the road, the bridge and complementary works have
been completed satisfactorily. The supplementary credit and supplementary
financing from the Kuwait Fund were needed to make up the shortfall of
funds which arose largely because of the currency exchange rate fluctuations.
The Government has complied substantially with the covenants of the Third
Highway Project agreement.
Credit No. 894-CA      Livestock I Project:  US$2.5 Million Credit of
April 10, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  July 15, 1980
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The project was designed to develop livestock production and
improve nutrition and the living conditions of one of the poorest segments
of the CAR's population, the M'Bororo herdsmen. It consists of four
main components: (i) provision of animal health services in the western
half of the country; (ii) strengthening the Government's Livestock Service;
(iii) introduction and testing of simple pasture management techniques,
based on herdsmen's associations in a pilot zone; and (iv) training.
Most expatriate positions have been filled, and the expatriate
1/ This note is designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects which are being implemented and to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. It
should be read in this sense and with the understanding that it does
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project implementation.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
technical-assistance team has established a good working relationship
with its national counterparts. The civil works program is almost completed.
The Bouar college is operating and the drug sale program progresses well.
After 18 months of field works, it was decided to redefine the Topia
pilot activities because the area did not prove suitable to establish
herdsmen's associations. The project suffered from disbursement irregularities
and mismanagement of ANEC.  Both problems have been discussed with CAR
authorities and seem to be under control.
Credit No. 1150-CA    Technical Assistance Project:  3.3 Million SDRs Credit
of July 16, 1981; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (a) project preparation and start-up
activities for the proposed Fourth Highway Project and a proposed Rural
Development Project in the Cotton Zone; (b) execution of sector studies
in the forestry sector and the diamond sector; (c) four resident technical
advisers, including a project coordinator/economic adviser, a legal expert,
an external-debt expert, and an agricultural programs coordinator; (d)
an organizational review of the civil service; and (e) further studies,
training, consultants' services, and related activities for which a need
is identified during project implementation.
(a) Project preparation. The preparation of the Fourth Highway
Project was begun under an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility which was automatically refinanced when the technical
assistance project became effective. Project preparation
of the Fourth Highway Project has continued under the
technical assistance project and should be completed by
October 1982. Field work for a follow-up feasibility
study for the proposed Rural Development Project in the
Cotton Zone was undertaken in October-November 1981, and
the final report was published in April 1982.
(b) Sector Studies. Field work for the forestry sector study
was undertaken in January-February 1982, and the final
report was published in May 1982.  A final selection of
the consultant(s) to undertake the diamond sector study
has not yet been made.
(c) Resident technical advisers. The legal expert arrived
in September 1981 and acted as Project Coordinator until
March 1, 1982, when the Project Coordinator arrived.
The external-debt expert has been chosen and will start
work in Bangui in June 1982. The agricultural programs
coordinator started work in Bangui in early April 1982.
(d) Review of the Civil Service. The Canadian Ecole Nationale
d'Administration Publique was chosen to carry out this
review and began work in the CAR in May 1982.



- 26 -                             ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
(e) Further studies, training, consultants' services, etc.
A study of the CAR's banking system and public-enterprise
system were carried out in May 1982. A study of the major
transport corridors from the CAR to the sea is expected
to be carried out in late 1982.
Due to the later-than-expected recruitment of some of the resident
experts, the project may not be completed by June 30, 1984, as originally
foreseen. Disbursements are also somewhat behind schedule. The project
appears, however, to be accomplishing its goals; the experts, in particular,
have already made a substantial contribution to the Government's reconstruction
efforts.



- 27 -                                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government and consultants (financed
under the ongoing Technical Assistance
Project)
(c) Date of first IDA mission to consider the project: May 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: May 1981 (brief
follow-up mission took
place in December
1981)
(e) Negotiations completed: May 4, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1982
Section II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
A.         The Government will:
(a)  maintain the Road Fund and not make any material change
in the organizational, financial, and administrative structure
of the Road Fund, without prior approval from the Association
(para. 34);
(b)  take all measures necessary to adjust, not later than
June 30 of each year, the Road Fund levy on motor fuels
so that the revenues raised by the levy will, at all times,
be sufficient to cover the expenditures for maintenance
of the priority network (para. 34);
(c)  not later than June 30, 1983, carry out the trucking industry
study in accordance with terms of reference agreed on by
the Government and the Association; not later than December 31,
1983, propose to the Association, for its comments,
specific measures, based on the study, to strengthen the
trucking industry; and implement these measures promptly
thereafter (para. 35);



- 28 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)   carry out training in accordance with a training program
satisfactory to the Association, annually review with the
Association the activities undertaken under the training
program during the previous year and the proposed training
activities for the next year, and make, as and when needed,
such adjustments in the training program as shall be necessary
(para. 40);
(e)   provide or continue to provide employment within the
Ministry of Public Works for all students or DGTP staff
who successfully complete their fellowship programs or
training programs abroad (para. 40); and
(f)   maintain the positions and functions of Advisor to the
Minister of Public Works, Administrator of the Road Fund
and Deputy Director General of DGTP and keep these positions
filled, at all times, with qualified and experienced personnel
(para. 41).
B.        Special conditions of Credit effectiveness will be that (a) a
qualified and experienced Administrator of the Road Fund shall have been
appointed (para. 34); and (b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement and the ADF Credit Agreement shall have
been fulfilled, except the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
(para. 44).



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
Financing Agencies
r        Components                          CAR      ADF    BDEAC    FAC    Kuwait Fund    Opec   IDA        TOTAL
(US$ millions)
Rehabilitation and
Complementary Works
A.  Bangui - M'Baiki                0.1      5.0                                                      5.1
B.  Bangui - Ymbi                   0.1                                              5.1              5.2
C.  Sibut - Bambari                 0.5                                  5.7                          6.2
D.  Bambari - Bangassou             0.8                                                     4.0       4.8
E.  Sibut - Sido                    0.7                                                     7.3       8.0
F.  Bossembele - Bossangoa          0.4              1.3      1.2                                     2.9
G.  Bossangoa - Bedaoyo             0.5                       2.1                                     2.6
Institutional Development
H. Equipment
-  Highway Equipment                     4.4                                                      4.4
-  Office Equipment                                                                     1.0       1.0
- Promotion of petty
contractors                                                                          0.2      0.2
I.  Buildings                                                                               1.1       1.1
J.  Technical Assistance                                                                    4.1       4.1
K. Training
-  Fellowships abroad                                    1.2                                     1.2
-  Local Training               1.0                                                     0.3      1.3
TOTAL                           4.1      9.4     1.3     4.5         5.7         5.1   18.0     48.1
Lending Terms
Maturity       Grace Period         Interest
(years)          (years)          (7 p,a,)
ADF                        50                10               0.75
BDEAC 1/                 12-15               3-5             5.5-7.5
FAC                     - - - -(grant)- - - - - - - - - -
Kuwait Fund                25                 5               3.0
Opec Fund                  15                 5               0.75
IDA                        50                10               0.75
1/ Exact terms will be determined during negotiations between the CAR Government and
BDEAC (foreseen for October 1982).



I



I                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15897R
16 2-T)4                                                                                                                                                                                                     FEBRUARY 198S2
CENTRAL AFRICAN  REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                           i
ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                         R,                                                                     A F II
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                         ~             ~~ N  <aELE0J
# )  -.A       -'A                A/AN>aS6EBouIJI    ,j,i-A. 
| sV   /                  I            aX                (f\               2        <                                     \      /                  s07EJ          \)       ,/                     <.~~~~~~~V  RARt
D- ~ ~             ~                ~                ~               ~               ~               -
r                       l                            t                                                 -#t  5 /                     /          << -                            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.tS  -
\    /   )   --'    4AKOM O  eGA8lj                                                                                                                    THE    VMARY ROAD~-\  )  '
N.                                   U NO_. --R._.._._,<                                                                                                                                          SECONDAR RO DS
0        .
ALIx
^Pe   {          0        djvfZ                                     A     I   R    E                      X*                                           INTEHNRR DRCLjA RPCR
'B            I.                                                            IC'    S~~~~~~~~A                  'N                         A,ARRR (~~BOD  B
! ~ ~       ~ ~                ~~~~~                                             V                                                                            -t,                                               4    tDdDER    I
*1          AT         NRTJPGOg ,AG                                                                                                  t"                                                                                          T
(7 C SD;  JLAS   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,A QSRUTDUNE REIU POE,
ATANADPA'  >  'I,> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIII RMB  ''l
/\  AR                        AR!dac Vtow                                                                                                                                     -. hzmpd o m#  11ewto hsWl< a  n 
SCAR   "-VI                 I           {| F-' B-VNAvlfle b            21U   df'fl'd25 ont/eldShelrull Ihe {&g3S SgtlSS Of axls lef2t0r2f ZF cndolfEtNA 24
NO      - - - - - - -DOAA ~   --1                                    - -FINA                                                         Ii
GARDA  0-AR                        'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I 1RACIVA    fl ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ CITRCTDFJD ICEIT /~
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~RMR                        IADAREH"ABRAUMAN L-                                                                                A RP        N.., I
RADAR ~~~~~~  ~~'TAANI  ALINRAR                                                    f        %';~~~~~~~~IERA'T ONL--NARP
RADARSARA   -          '?".    ~~~~~~~~Zt% ,r -  -\
1 I                                TDAAMAA  I                                                                                                                          _____           RIAR  RAD



