Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3797-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 11, 1982
Western African Projects Department
Transportation II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            -   CFAF 300
CFAF I million    -   US$3,333
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                          British/US Equivalents
I meter (m)                -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmi)          -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       -   2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY - GLOSSAIRE
ACCF      Central African River               Agence Centrafricaine des Communications
Transport Agency                    Fluviales
ATC       Congolese Transport Agency          Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
CFPTP     Public Works Training               Centre de Formation Professionnelle
Center (PWTC)                       des Travaux Publics
DAGPC     Directorate of Administration,    Direction de l'Administration Generale
Personnel Management and            du Personnel et de la Comptabilite
Accounting
DED       Directorate of Studies and          Direction des Etudes et de la
Documentation                       Documentation
DEPC      Directorate of Studies, Pro-        Direction des Etudes, de la Programmation
gramming and Supervision (DSPS)   et du Controle
DER       Directorate of Road Maintenance   Direction de l'Entretien Routier
DGTP      Directorate-General of Public       Direction Generale des Travaux Publics
Works
DM        Directorate of Equipment            Direction du Materiel
Maintenance
ERR       Economic Rate of Return             Taux de rentabilite interne
FAC       Aid and Cooperation Fund            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
(France)
FED       European Development Fund (EDF)   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FRG       Federal Republic of Germany         Republique Federale Allemande
GTC       Central African Transporters'       Groupement des TransporLeurs
Cooperative                         Centrafricains
KfW       German Development Agency           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LBTP      Buildings and Public Works          Laboratoire du Batiment et des
Laboratory                          Travaux Publics
MT        Ministry of Transport and           Ministere des Transports et de
Civil Aviation                      l'Aviation Civile
MTP       Ministry of Public Works            Ministere des Travaux Publics et
and City Planning                   de l'Urbanisme
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ONAF      National Freight Office             Office National d'Affretement
SCEVN     Joint Service for River             Service Commun d'Entretien des Voies
Maintenance                         Navigables
SOCADA    Central African Company for         Societe Centrafricaine de Developpement
Agricultural Development            Agricole
SOCOTRAF  Central African River               Societe Centrafricaine des Transports
Transport Company                   Fluviaux



CENTRAL AFRICA REPUBLIC
PROPOSED FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .. ...................................... 1
A.  Background            ..1......................... 
B. The Transport System                      ..                    2
C.  Transport Planning ...................................... 5
D. Sectoral Development                      ..                    6
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR .        . .................................... 6
A.  The Network ............................................. 6
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Traffic             .     .        7
C. The Road Transport Industry                   .       .           8
D.  Road Administration and Training                .      .       9
E.  Road Planning .......................................... 10
F.  Engineering, Construction and Procurement           . .   10
G.  Road Maintenance ....................................... 10
H.  Financing .............................................. 11
I. Past IDA Assistance                      ..                      13
III.  THE PROJECT ................................................ 13
A.  Objectives ............................................. 13
B.  Description ............................................ 14
C.  Status of Project Preparation .......................... 19
D.  Cost Estimates ......................................... 19
E.  Financing .............................................. 21
F.  Procurement ............................................ 22
G.  Implementation ......................................... 22
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................ 25
A.  General ................................................ 25
B.  Project Benefits and Beneficiaries ..................... 26
C.  Economic Analysis ...................................... 27
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION              ... 30
---------------------------------------------------__----------------
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Ohbi (Economist), J. Bentchikou
(Engineer), and L. Lekeux (Engineer). It is based on the information
provided by the Government and the consulting firm BCEOM (France), the
findings of a highway appraisal mission, to the Central African Republic
consisting of Messrs. J. Bentchikou and K. Ohbi in Mlay 1981 and a post-
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. L. Lekeux and K. Ohbi in December
1981.



(ii)
TABLES ........................................................... 32
ANNEXES
I(a) Outline Terms of Reference for the Directorate of
Studies and Documentation, Ministry of Transport
and Civil Aviation ..................................... 55
I(b) Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation ........ 57
II     Terms of Reference for Trucking Industry Operations ...... 59
III(a)  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to DGTP ...... 61
III(b)  Consultants Services for Supervision of
Road Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Works ........... 65
IV     Preparation for Promoting Road Maintenance through
Petty Contractors in Rural Areas ....................... 67
CHART
MAP IBRD 15897R



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
PROPOSED FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country of
626,000 km2, sharing borders with Cameroon, Sudan, Congo, Zaire and Chad.
It is linked to the sea primarily via the 1,800 km road/river/rail Trans-
Equatorial route to Pointe Noire in the Congo. The alternative route
through Cameroon to Douala (1,680 km) is becoming attractive for high
value/low bulk exports and imports such as coffee and manufactured goods.
Overall, climate and topography do not hinder the development of land
transport. However, the large distances involved (over 1,200 km from
west to east and 600 km from south to north) and poor road conditions
(largely due to years of neglect) result in high transport costs.
1.02     About two-thirds of CAR's sparse population, estimated at 2.3
million inhabitants in 1979, is rural and growing at 2.5% annually. The
average density, 3.7 persons per km2, contrasts with about 17.5 persons
per km2 in neighboring Cameroon. Most of the population is concentrated
in the cotton lands of the northwestern region, Bangui and the Oubangui
catchment area where economic activities and the road network are rela-
tively developed. By contrast, the north and northeast are almost unin-
habited.
1.03     The urban population has risen from less than 10% in 1960 to the
current estimate of 29%. Bangui (population 334,000 in 1979), is the
political and administrative capital and the dominant port/commercial
center. Major regional cities include: Bambari (pop. 36,000), Bouar
(pop. 34,000), Berberati (pop. 31,000), Bossangoa (pop. 29,000) and
Bangassou (pop. 25,000). Additionally, another 11 urban areas have
10,000 or more inhabitants.
1.04     The largely subsistence agricultural sector absorbs 85% of the
active population and provides a third of the GDP (36% in 1980). Cotton
and coffee are the leading export crops, with tobacco contributing mar-
ginally. Their share in CAR's foreign trade declined from 61% in 1977
(US$71 million equivalent) to about 36% in 1980 (US$39 million equiva-
lent) because of poor management. Although producer prices to cotton
growers (some 300,000 families) have risen since 1975, poor fertilizer
distribution and the deterioration of farm-to-market roads are among the
causes of declining output (60,000 tons in 1970 vs 35,000 tons in 1980).
The Government is now attempting to reverse the trend in cotton output
and restore agricultural production.



- 2 -
1.05      Cattle herding is concentrated in the western savannahs and
provides 50% of the protein consumed in the country. The Government,
aware of long-term problems facing traditional herdsmen, is implementing
a program with assistance from IDA, the International Agricultural
Development Fund and the African Development Bank, aimed at improving
herd quality, managing pasture resources, improving physical access and
providing veterinary services.
1.06      CAR's exploitable forests are estimated at 5 million hectares.
Sizeable investments and favorable prices led to accelerated forestry
development in the early 1970s, but this came to a virtual standstill in
1974-76 as capital investments decreased following depressed demand.
Although the improving world demand has restored production to the 1973
levels (about 400,000 m3 of logs and some 100,000 m3 of sawn wood), inef-
ficient transport facilities and high transport costs make CAR's timber
exports less competitive than those from Asia.
1.07      The resource base also includes diamonds, uranium and limestone.
Diamonds are the major source of foreign exchange; exports of mostly
uncut stones represent a third of the country's total foreign trade (34%
in 1980 equivalent to US$37.4 million). Exploitation of uranium deposits
at Bakouma (some 670,000 tons with some 0.025% metal content) is hampered
by the current world surplus and heavy start-up costs. A study financed
by UNDP and the Government of South Africa concluded that deposits of 8
million tons of limestone in the Fatima and Bobassa regions would justify
a cement plant, but no financing has been acquired to date. In addition,
prospects for petroleum near the Chad border are being explored.
1.08      The Government is implementing austerity measures (under the
guidance of the IMF and France) to control public finances and the na-
tional budget. In addition to reducing the civil service (about 50% of
the 40,000 salaried workers in the country in 1981 were civil servants),
wasteful expenditures are being cut and revenues are being augmented
through increasing various taxes (for example, the tax on beer to service
the national debt and a levy on motor fuels to increase revenues for the
Road Fund). In addition, collection of other taxes and customs duties is
being strengthened with help from France. However, considering the
Government's limited scope for raising additional revenues, financing for
development projects will continue to need foreign assistance in the near
future.
B. The Transport System
Domestic
1.09     Most domestic transport is by road.  The classified network
consists of some 9,000 km, of which about 450 km are paved. The larger,
unclassified network (about 11,000 km) consists of seasonal feeder roads
and unengineered tracks. Major trunk roads radiate from Bangui, the
capital. From east to west, the country is linked by the deteriorating
Trans-African Highway from Bangassou on the Zaire border to Boulai in



3 -
Cameroon (1,300 km). From south to north the country is linked with Chad
by two partially paved major routes: (a) from Bangui to Sibut through
Kaga Bandoro and Sido and eventually to N'Djamena; and (b) from Bangui
through Boali, Bossembele, Bossangoa to Bedaoyo and eventually to Doba in
Chad. Details of the road sub-sector and its operations are described in
Chapter II.
Access to the Sea
1.10     CAR's ability to trade competitively is hampered by long dis-
tances to the sea and high transport costs.l/ High transport costs in-
flate the domestic price of imports and make the country's exports less
competitive. The primary outlet to the sea, the Trans-Equatorial route,
terminates at Pointe Noire (Congo). From Bangui to Brazzaville (Congo),
goods travel 1,300 km via the Oubangui and Congo Rivers and then 510 km
by rail from Brazzaville to Pointe Noire. The Congolese part of the
Trans-Equatorial route is managed by the Agence Transcongolaise des
Communications (ATC). It handles a third of the total traffic on the
river portion and all of the traffic on the rail portion of the route.
ATC's recently strengthened management is expected to improve its oper-
ations, particularly the rail services which contributed to long delays
for CAR's transit traffic.
1.11     The Cameroon route is 1,680 km and includes 850 km by road from
Bangui to N'gaoundal (Cameroon) and another 830 km by rail from
N'gaoundal to the recently expanded port of Douala. Cargo on the
Cameroon route consists mostly of textiles, vehicles, foodstuffs, bever-
ages, leather, paper and coffee. Because of difficult economic condi-
tions in CAR and poor condition of the road between Yaloke and Bouar,
traffic on the Cameroon route increased marginaly from 20,000 tons in
1976 to about 28,000 tons in 1980, nearly 65% of which were imports.
This stretch of the road is expected to be improved late in 1982 under
GTZ financing.
River Transport
1.12     The port of Bangui with an annual capacity of about 300,000 tons
is the leading domestic port. In 1978, traffic had declined to 136,500
tons from 267,000 tons in 1970 largely because of depressed timber ex-
ports. Imports of 102,000 tons that year heavily out-distanced exports
of 34,500 tons. Eighty percent of the exports were logs and sawn timber.
Petroleum products and cement accounted for 70% of the imports. Cotton
and small quantities of coffee are also exported by river. Zinga, Salo
and Nola are the other ports and handled about 212,500 tons of imports
and exports in 1978, with Nola handling mainly timber.
1.13     The Agence Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales (ACCF),
an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
1/ CFAF 14,000 to 58,000 per ton depending on the type of merchandise and
the route being used.



- 4 -
(MT), handles about two thirds of CAR's river imports and exports. It is
managed by the Societe Centrafricaine des Transports Fluviaux (SOCOTRAF).
Although ACCF's annual capacity is rated at about 400,000 tons, of which
general cargo capacity is estimated at 230,000 tons, managerial and oper-
ational inefficiencies make it considerably lower. These managerial and
operational inefficiencies are being tackled by SOCOTRAF and barge turn
around time between Brazzaville and Oubangui is being improved. ACCF's
fleet consists of: (a) 24 tugs (19 of which are under 400 horse power);
(b) 94 general cargo barges; (c) 24 petroleum barges; (d) 14 passenger
barges; and (e) one barge converted for cattle transport. Eighteen small
tugs provide additional power to negotiate the difficult and shallow
waters in the Lobaye and Sangha Rivers.
1.14     The Government approved an ambitious CFAF 4.8 billion program to
renovate ACCF's infrastructure, rehabilitate the fleet and improve its
maintenance. The first phase of this program, estimated at CFAF 2.6
billion, is being executed with financing from FAC, FED, CIDA and KfW.
It provides: (a)-a 30 m extension of the quai at Bangui to accommodate up
to three barges of 50 m each; (b) three fixed cranes and one mobile crane
(30 tons) to handle containers; (c) two tugs for Bangui; and (d) two
passenger barges for service on the Upper Oubangui. Considering ACCF's
capacity and CAR's import/export traffic, the first phase of the invest-
ment program would be adequate for CAR's needs in the near future. Addi-
tionally, technical assistance being provided by FAC, FED and FRG should
improve fleet rehabilitation and maintenance.
1.15     ACCF/SOCOTRAF operates the domestic river ports.  The bi-
national (Congo-CAR) Service Commun d'Entretien des Voies Navigables
(SCEVN) maintains navigable waterways of the Sangha, Oubangui and Lobaye
rivers. SCEVN has its headquarters in Brazzaville but maintains a small
office in Bangui. ACCF/SOCOTRAF collects river transport taxes earmarked
for SCEVN (with the exception of taxes on timber which SCEVN collects
directly) and uses them to defray the river maintenance costs.
Air Transport
1.16     Bangui M'Poko, the international airport, handles over 90% of
the country's passenger and cargo traffic. The others include: (a) 12
regional airports useable by airplanes of the DC4 class; (b) 14 tertiary
airports with rudimentary ground installations for airplanes of DC3
class; and (c) 11 landing strips only suitable for light aircraft.
1.17     Passenger traffic at Bangui M'Poko was 30,000 to 31,000 pas-
senger arrivals and departures, between 1970-74, increasing marginally by
about 4% per year from a little over 32,000 in 1975 to about 37,000 in
1979. Freight traffic increased from about 5,800 tons to 8,500 tons over
1970-74, declined slightly in 1975 to 8,300 tons, but reached about
13,000 tons in 1979. It registered a 12% per year growth average.
Postal traffic has ranged between 100 tons to about 120 tons in recent
years and is of minor importance. Overall, about 8% of the passenger
traffic and 1% of freight are domestic.



1.18     Domestic air services are provided by the recently created
Inter-RCA. Its fleet consists of two old DC3s and an aging DC4. Its
management is of low quality. Although a UNDP/ICAO financed study con-
cluded that there is scope for regional and domestic air services expan-
sion, the Government has not focused on the potential and a number of
difficulties stand in the way at present. These include: (a) the ab-
sence of adequate runway maintenance; (b) shortage of aviation fuel and
lack of security for fuel stocked at regional airports; (c) lack of
smaller planes suitable for low traffic volume (costing less to operate
and maintain); and (d) high fares and erratic schedules.
1.19     The physical shortcomings for air transport are beginning to be
addressed. The runway at Bangui is planned to be extended. Plans exist
to rehabilitate the runways at the major regional airports of Ndele, Kaga
Bandoro, Zemio, Melle Gordil and Mobaye, but the estimated cost of the
planned works is CFAF 4.3 billion, with only only about CFAF 550 million
so far having been acquired from FAC. The bulk of the work is envisioned
through force account, but lack of management capacity and equipment
would make this difficult. The Government has confirmed that it would
review the civil aviation sector's needs as part of MT's work program for
1983-85.
C. Transport Planning
1.20     The MT is responsible for initiating sectoral development pro-
posals and the Directorate-General of Public Works (DGTP) in the Ministry
of Public Works and City Planning (MTP) is responsible for formulating
specific objectives and priorities for roads. Based of MT's proposals,
the Ministry of Plan, Statistics and International Cooperation drafts a
development plan for further review by the Council of Ministers and
eventually the approval of the head of state. However, transport plan-
ning and sectoral investments to date have been determined mostly by the
availability of foreign financing.
1.21     MT has recently been reorganized.  Its stucture is now improved
and adapted to discharging its sectoral responsibilities which include
management, policy formulation and transport planning. Its key obliga-
tions are to: (i) review and coordinate investment proposals prepared by
other ministries and agencies under its supervision; and (ii) review,
regulate and approve rates and tariffs for public agencies under its
supervision e.g. ACCF and Inter-RCA. Its capacity needs to be conso-
lidated and gradually strengthened to keep abreast of sectoral develop-
ments. The proposed project provides for 26 man-months of technical
assistance services of an economist/planner to: promote transport plan-
ning; help the Division of Studies and Documentation (DED) in MT execute
its work program for 1983-85; train counterparts; and establish a trans-
port planning documentation center. DED's middle and upper level per-
sonnel, most of whom have academic training but little work experience,
will receive on-the-job training in transport planning techniques based
on a training program to be developed and implemented by the economist/



planner. In addition to the economist/planner, the project would provide
for a study of the trucking industry (3 man-months for a road transport
specialist) to organize it more efficiently and to give it a stronger
market orientation (para. 2.09). The Government agreed with the terms of
reference for DED and the technical assistance to MT (Annex I).
D. Sectoral Development
1.22     During the 1971-75 Development Plan period, public investments
in the economy totalled about CFAF 39 billion, from which a fifth (CFAF
7.9 billion equivalent to US$32 million) was invested in the transport
sector. The Plan emphasized the improvement of: (a) trunk roads linking
areas of economic potential with the capital; (b) development of overland
access to sea ports; and (c) ACCF operations. About 70% of the sectoral
investments were in highways and 25% in river transport. Air transport
received 5% of the sectoral allocations. Although investments were not
sufficient considering the need, the direction given to the investment
program coincided with IDA's assessment of the sector objectives.
1.23     The 1976-80 Plan increased the transport investment targets to
CFAF 65 billion (equivalent to US$265 million), representing 43% of all
the public investments. Financing of this Plan was left almost entirely
to foreign assistance. About CFAF 47.5 billion were planned for high-
ways, but as of the end of 1979, only CFAF 5.9 billion had been invested.
1.24     The Plan de Redressement (1981-1982), initiated on an emergency
basis because none of the 1976-80 Plan goals had been met, gave priority
to rehabilitating the transport infrastructure and to agriculture. This
plan called for total investments of US$72 million in 1981 (11% of GDP)
and US$ 96 million in 1982 (10% of GDP). Earmarked investments in agri-
cultural projects were about US$29 million and US$38 million in 1981 and
1982 while those for transport projects were about US$22 million and
US$29 million in those years. However, although the plan was realistic,
implementation of a number of projects has been delayed for want of suf-
ficient preparation and needed foreign financing (about 50% yet to be
acquired). Actual investments in 1981 totalled US$ 49 million or 68% of
the planned target which was a significant improvement over previous plan
targets. The present Government is following the development strategy of
the Plan de Redressement but has set the investment targets at US$ 63
million each year for 1982-84.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     CAR's road network, with a density of about 33 m/km2, is ade-
quate for its current needs. Many of these roads, however, are in such
poor condition, due mainly to lack of maintenance during the last decade,
that they need major rehabilitation. During project preparation, prior-
ities and phasing for such rehabilitation were established in line with



- 7 -
the Governments' program for economic recovery. The priority network
includes a total of 3,136 km, or about one third of the classified sys-
tem, plus 57 km of unclassified roads (Table 2.1).
2.02     The proposed project addresses the maintenance and rehabilita-
tion needs of the priority network. Maintenance and rehabilitation of
the non-priority network will be undertaken by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and local communities, as feasible.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
2.03     Traffic density throughout the classified network is modest,
with less than 20 vpd on 60% of the priority network. Some segments of
these roads are in such poor shape that there are as few as 10 vpd -- for
example, some segments of the Bossangoa-Bedaoyo Road and parts of the
Kaga Bondoro-Sido stretch. Traffic on the unclassified network is negli-
gible. However, traffic densities are more intense on the paved roads as
these link the capital, Bangui, to the important economic and commercial
regional centers. On the Bangui-M'Baiki Road, traffic gradually tapers
off from about 600 VPD to about 140 vpd on the outskirts of M'Baiki and
it averages about 2,100 vpd on the Bangui-Ymbi Road (Bangui North exit).
2.04     No attempt was made to derive traffic volumes from figures on
fleet size, since those figures themselves are only indicative, reflect-
ing mainly new vehicle registrations (Tables 2.2 and 2.3). Thus, the
average annual fleet growth rate of 7.8% between 1974-79 seems inflated
(Table 2.2) for the network as a whole. It is reasonable to presume,
however, that the figures on fleet composition are accurate, indicating
that light vehicles remain at a constant 80% while tractor trailers are
increasing slightly as compared with trucks. A large portion of the
light vehicles is concentrated in Bangui. Available data on fuel con-
sumption (Table 2.4) are equally inconclusive as an indicator of traffic
volumes because they do not reflect sizeable fuel imports through unof-
ficial sources. Based on the road freight transport data (about 350,000
tons in 1976 and some 400,000 tons in 1978) it is likely that the overall
order of magnitude of traffic growth is about 6% per year. Traffic
growth on specific links has been higher, e.g. averaging about 11% per
year on the Bangui-M'Baiki Road since 1968 and about 9% on the Bangui-
Boulai-N'gaoundal route to Cameroon since 1976.
2.05     The traffic volumes on the priority network for 1981 (Table 2.5)
are based on available Directorate of Studies, Programming and Super-
vision (DEPC) counts and the consultants' origin-destination survey.
DEPC counts are conducted on an irregular basis, with priority to roads
to be rehabilitated. The origin-destination survey results were checked
for consistency against data on movement of cargo trucks compiled by
police authorities. Consultants' traffic growth estimates are based on
projections of agricultural commodities, population growth and expected



- 8 -
increase in farmers incomes in the zones of influence of the project
roads (para. 4.12).
C. The Road Transport Industry
Regulations
2.06     The industry is subjected to few regulations and entry is virtu-
ally unrestricted. MT issues operating and trade licences and sets
tariffs for public passenger and freight transport. Vehicles licensed
for public freight are required to be inspected for mechanical safety
twice a year and those licensed for passenger transport every quarter.
MT controls vehicle weights and dimensions through import authorizations,
now granted routinely. There is a 13 ton maximum axle load limit, but
enforcement is erratic and depends on visual inspection by the national
police. Although overloading is not a widespread problem, construction
of a weighing station is substantially completed at the strategically
located northern exit of Bangui and would enable selective enforcement.
The Government intends to introduce appropriate legislation to this
effect in the near future.
Operations and Organization
2.07     The road transport industry is characterized by numerous private
transporters owning one or a few trucks. Most freight requiring special
handling or with strict delivery schedules is handled by the larger
international concerns based in Douala (Cameroon). Timber is generally
hauled by the concessionaries on own account while coffee and cotton are
either hauled by cooperatives or private truckers. Staples are often
transported and marketed by individual truckers acting as wholesale
buyers and suppliers. The 60 or so better equipped truckers owning some
200 trucks in total are organized under the Groupement des Transporteurs
Centrafricaines (GTC) and haul about 70% of the domestic cargo (fluctu-
ating around 400,000 tons in recent years). Additionally GTC members
haul about 15% of CAR's overland import and export tonnages and 10% of
Chad's and Sudan's.
2.08     Urban and inter-urban passenger transport is provided by some
fifty individuals (who mainly operate taxis in Bangui) and the state-
owned Compagnie Nationale des Transports Routiers (CNTR). CNTR opera-
tions are controlled by MT. The Government has considered improving
CNTR's operations through entering into joint ownership and management
agreement with private groups and replacing the dilapidated fleet but no
action has been taken yet.
2.09     The trucking industry is in a state of flux.  Although it pro-
vides basic services, its performance needs improving. Major deficiences
include poor terminal operations and low fleet utilization. The Govern-
ment has recently abolished the Office National d'Affretement (ONAF), a
financially and administratively autonomous state-owned company reporting
to MT because of its increasingly deteriorating performance. ONAF was a



-9-
clearinghouse charged with managing operations of the large terminal in
Bangui including break bulk, freight consolidation, warehousing and
freight insurance as well as coordinating truck transport in CAR. For
its rudimentary services, it charged truckers a 7 to 10% commission based
on the applicable freight rate. Since November 1981, freight terminal
operations are being managed by the Bureau d'Affretement Centrafricain, a
mixed enterprise owned by the State (33%), GTC (20%) and the large inter-
national trucking companies. The project provides for a study of the
trucking industry with the objective of organizing it more efficiently
and providing it with a stronger market orientation. The Government has
agreed: (i) to the terms of reference for the study (Annex II); (ii) to
propose not later than December 31, 1983, based on the recommendations of
the trucking industry study, specific measures to strengthen the industry
and afford the Association the opportunity to comment thereon; and (iii)
promptly thereafter take all measures necessary to strengthen the
industry, taking into account the Association's comments.
D. Road Administration and Training
Administration
2.10     MTP, through DGTP, is responsible for construction and main-
tenance of classified roads. The Ministry of Agriculture (Genie Rural)
and local authorities maintain unclassified roads. DGTP has four direc-
torates: Road Maintenance (DER); Equipment Maintenance (DM); Studies,
Programming and Supervision (DEPC); and Administration, Personnel Manage-
ment and Accounting (DAGPC). The DER has two maintenance districts (East
in Bambari and West in Bouar) each of which has five subdivisions. The
organizational structure of DGTP is adequate (Chart 1). The Building and
Public Works Laboratory (LBTP) is jointly-owned by the state (51%) and
CEBTP (France). LBTP is supervised by DEPC. The Laboratory is adequa-
tely equipped and staffed and performs soils and concrete testing for the
Government and contractors.
2.11     The senior technical staff of DGTP is currently adequate.  FAC
experts hold two key DGTP jobs -- Advisor to the Minister and Deputy
Director General of Public Works. In addition, FAC experts complement
local senior managers in most senior DEPC positions. A number of these
local managers, including 13 engineers and 35 technicians who have re-
ceived prior overseas training, need additional training and experience
which will be provided under the proposed project (para. 3.14). Addi-
tionally, to meet DGTP's needs for young engineers, the Government pro-
poses to send qualified students for overseas engineering training;
scholarships are available for this purpose from bilateral sources.
Training
2.12     DGTP employs about 1,500 people.  Of these, 900 are permanent.
The other 600 seasonal employees are paid by the Road Fund (para. 2.22).
About 70% of DGTP's lower level permanent staff have had no training
(only 25% have even basic educational skills). A training center (CFPTP)



10 -
was established in 1967 under a FED project but has so far trained only
about 160 people, mainly overseers, foremen and mechanics. CFPTP
capacity is limited by: (i) insufficiently trained staff whose training
skills need upgrading; (ii) outdated curriculae and visual aids; and
(iii) lack of equipment for hands-on-experience. The proposed project
will renovate CFPTP building (para. 3.09 (d)), provide training equipment
(para. 3.09 (e)) and strengthen CFPTP training capacity (para. 3.13) in
order to improve on-the-job training for most of DGTP staff.
E. Road Planning
2.13     DEPC initiates and formulates all classified road projects.
Prefeasibility studies and traffic counts are also carried out by DEPC.
These form the basis for full feasibility study and appraisal by pros-
pective lenders.
F. Engineering, Construction and Procurement
2.14     DEPC reviews all engineering studies, supervises new construc-
tion works and executes minor engineering work and field surveying. It
is manned and equipped by FAC under an agreement with the Government
which provides the building, support staff and finances the current ex-
penditures. The work is generally of good quality. Contracts for major
projects are awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
DEPC calls for and evaluates bids with the participation of representa-
tives of other concerned ministries. Government procurement procedures
are sound.
2.15     DGTP force account capacity for periodic road maintenance and
rehabilitation works is being increased to the extent necessary to exe-
cute the Government's maintenance program. The proposed project will
finance a part of this expansion (para. 3.09). Rehabilitation works and
new works are carried out by foreign and local contractors. There are at
least three foreign contractors, based in Bangui or neighboring coun-
tries, who regularly participate in civil works bidding. Another half a
dozen foreign-owned small to medium size local contracting firms (mainly
construction) operate in Bangui. None of these, however, is suitable for
the minor road works in isolated areas. To make a start at filling this
gap, the project provides for a pilot scheme to promote petty contractors
to undertake routine road maintenance in rural areas (para. 3.11).
G. Road Maintenance
2.16     During the last decade, DER did almost no road maintenance.
Financing for road maintenance was inadequate and allocated mainly to
salaries. Inadequate supervision meant workers were seldom on the job.
Road maintenance equipment, of which CAR has a variety on hand, is
currently in various states of disrepair. Although many of the fifty
large dump trucks procured in 1977 were abandoned after breakdown or



- 11 -
accidents, some are still salvageable.   The salvageable equipment will
be rehabilitated under the proposed project (para. 3.09) and will
complement DER's other road maintenance equipment. In addition, there
are two regravelling brigades, equipped (except for trucks) by Japan in
1980 and a grading unit. This equipment is in good condition and is
being used to maintain roads in the eastern part of CAR.
2.17     Road maintenance in other parts of CAR is being carried out with
assistance from several donors. In 1980, FAC and CCCE financed emergency
light rehabilitation on almost 1,700 km of gravel roads serving the
cotton growing areas. The rehabilitation was successfully carried out by
contractors at an average cost of $1,800/km: the cotton crop was
evacuated, travel time was reduced; and most of the works survived at
least one rainy season. The proposed project will continue and
consolidate a part of this rehabilitation effort.
2.18     FED, FAC and GTZ are rehabilitating and maintaining about 860 km
of gravel road in the west (Table 2.1). The work is being carried out by
force account brigades under the management of the financers as well as
by contractors. The particularly poor road between Yaloke and Bouar (on
the overland route to Cameroon) is being rehabilitated by GTZ. DEPC
coordinates and supervises the works. The three donors plan to maintain
the roads until 1983, when responsibility for operation of the equipment
will be transferred to DGTP and recurrent costs will be financed by the
Government through the Road Fund.
2.19     In addition to the proposed project and the continuation of the
FED/FAC/GTZ program in the west, only one major highway project is plan-
ned: resealing of Damara-Sibut (112 km) by FED. This paved road, being
cracked in many sections, needs a single bituminous surface treatment
(SBST).
2.20     During project preparation, consultants elaborated the minimum
size of the road maintenance program for the priority road network taking
into consideration the absorptive capacity of DGTP and the Government's
plans to rehabilitate the economy. They also established the needs for
equipment, buildings and the urgent requirements and detailed planning
for technical assistance and training to carry out this program.
H. Financing
2.21     Table 2.6 shows the sources of finances and the actual expendi-
tures for roads for 1976-79. Virtually all of the highway expenditures
during this period were financed from foreign sources. In addition to
IDA (the Third Highway Project), the African Development Fund, FAC, CCCE,
FED, KfW and Japan were the major sources for public investments. Almost
all of CFAF 5.9 billion spent during these years were for rehabilitation
and improvement of existing roads. Since 1979, the Government has re-
ceived some CFAF 9.7 billion for completion of ongoing works, studies and
road maintenance.



- 12 -
2.22     Road maintenance operations on the priority network are now
financed through earmarked funds deposited in the Road Fund which, since
January 1981, is financially and administratively separate from the DGTP
budget. An executive committee composed of representatives from Public
Works, Finance, Planning, Transport and Rural Development Ministries, as
well as from the Chamber of Commerce is in charge of overall policy. An
Administrator of the Road Fund, appointed by the Minister of Public
Works, after the executive committee's approval, manages day-to-day
operations and administers the budget established for the annual
maintenance work program. The annual maintenance work program is pro-
posed by DGTP in consultation with the Administrator of the Road Fund for
review by the Minister of Public Works and eventually, approval by the
executive committee. Financial autonomy is ensured by a levy on the
sales of motor fuel which is deposited in a bank account directly by
TOCAGES, the distributor and retailer of motor fuels. An accountant
appointed by the Minister of Finance audits the accounts. The Road Fund
is functioning satisfactorily. Since the departure of the Administrator
of the Road Fund late in 1981, it has been managed by the Deputy Director
of DGTP, who because of his other duties is not able to administer the
Fund on a full-time basis.  The Government is actively recruiting a full-
time Administrator who will be financed by FRG. The appointment of a
qualified Administrator of the Road Fund for the duration of the project
is a condition of the proposed project credit effectiveness.
2.23     During the first nine months of 1981, actual road maintenance
expenditures from the Road Fund were CFAF 580 million (about 10% of this
was for the operation and maintenance of ferries). This is a marked im-
provement over previous years and augurs well for the Government's 1982-
88 road maintenance program. Since January 1981, the Government has
progressively increased the Road Fund levy on gasoline and diesel to CFAF
20/lt. To ensure continuity of the Road Fund operations and adequate
funding, the Government has agreed not to make any material change in the
organizational, financial and administrative structure of the Road Fund,
without prior approval from the Association.
Road User Charges
2.24     Over and above the Road Fund, road users contribute to the na-
tional budget through fuel taxes, taxes and duties on imported vehicles
and spare parts; and taxes on vehicle registrations. Fuel taxes, the
single most important source of revenues from road users, amounted to
about CFAF 1.7 billion in 1980 (Table 2.7). These included CFAF 32/lt on
gasoline and CFAF 13/lt on diesel. In May 1981, gasoline retail price
was CFAF 202/lt in Bangui while diesel retailed at CFAF 150/lt
(Table 2.8). For 1976-79 total estimated revenues from road user taxes
and duties were CFAF 7.2 billion (Table 2.7), compared with highway ex-
penditures of CFAF 5.9 billion (Table 2.6) indicating that the road user
charges are adequate. Additionally, the retail price of motor fuels
(Table 2.8) exceeds their equivalent opportunity cost of production which
indicates that the road sector is not subsidized by the Government.



- 13 -
I. Past IDA Assistance
2.25     The proposed project would be the fourth financed by IDA in the
transport sector of CAR. The First Highway Project (Credit 146-CA;
US$4.2 million, 1969), financed the paving of Bangui-M'Baiki road
(102 km) which was completed satisfactorily in 1972. The Second Highway
Project (Credit 199-CA, US$4.3 million, 1970) consisted of a four-year
maintenance program, including procurement of equipment, spare parts,
materials and technical assistance for project management and training.
The Project Performance Audit Report (Credits 146-CA and 199-CA) noted in
December 1977 that IDA experience with this project was unsatisfactory:
the Government was unable to meet the necessary recurrent road
maintenance costs, equipment was used for other than project works and
the results of the training were unsatisfactory. In retrospect, the
training component in particular could have benefitted from better
assessment of the country's formal vocational and training capabilities,
the magnitude of needs and a sharper focus on transferring the
consultants expertise to the maintenance personnel. Additionally,
performance of public institutions including CFPTP began to deteriorate
during project implementation. While the Government's inability to meet
the local costs of the project preempted its execution as planned, DGTP
had few personnel to be trained. The project scope was consequently
scaled down, largely to relieve the Government's financial burden and it
was completed early in 1975. The training component of the proposed
project (para. 3.13-3.14) incorporates the experience gained under the
Second Highway Project.
2.26     The Third Highway Project (credit 847-CA, US$15.5 million, 1979
and supplementary credit 1074-CA, US$4.5 million, 1981) concentrated on
removing urgent physical constraints to development while pursuing insti-
tution building in parallel through strengthening road maintenance fi-
nanced by other donors. The project consisted of construction of the
Bangui-Bossembele Road to two lane paved standard, construction of the
bridge over the M'Bali river and a weighing station at northern exit of
Bangui in addition to consultants' services for the engineering and
supervision of the works. With the exception of minor complementary
works, construction has been completed satisfactorily ahead of schedule.
However, the works have required supplementary financing of about US$
6.5 million to cover the cost-overrun which occured for reasons beyond
the control of the Government or the contractors. The bulk of the overrun
is due to currency realignments with inflation accounting for about
US$ 1.5 million. IDA (Supplementary Credit 1074-CA, US$ 4.5 million) and
the Kuwait Fund (US$ 1.8 million) covered 96% of the overrun with the
Government contributing the rest.
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
3.01     The proposed project has been designed to meet the immediate
need in CAR for rehabilitation of its economy.  The priority road network



- 14 -
is a key element in the rehabilitation plan; but due to the country's
present financial and economic situation, works cannot be accomplished
without foreign assistance. The project includes institutional and
manpower development aimed at consolidating the existing and building up
additional capacity to ensure that once rehabilitated, these roads can be
maintained by CAR personnel and local funds.
3.02     The proposed three-year project (1983-1985) is part of the
Government's extended program (1982-1988) of rehabilitation and main-
tenance of the priority network (which is technically and economically
feasible and is off to a good start). The project will rehabilitate
about one third of the country's priority network to all-weather
conditions, bring it to maintainable standards and prepare the way for
extended road maintenance in the future. As the immediate concern is to
make all of the priority network maintainable, other donors are
rehabilitating the rest of the roads in the network. By 1988, MTP's own
staff with financing from the Road Fund should be capable of keeping the
rehabilitated roads properly maintained.
B. Description
3.03     In order to meet these objectives, the proposed project would
consist of:
(a)   Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Roads
(i) works by contract for rehabilitating 1,217 km of
gravel roads in the priority network and
complementary works to be executed by force
account;
(ii) repairs and resealing by contract of the Bangui-
M'Baiki road (102 km); and
(iii) reconstruction by contract of the Bangui-Ymbi road
(6.5 km);
(b)   Consultant Services:  to supervise the rehabilitation and
reconstruction works in (a) above;
(c)   Complementary Equipment Procurement and Renovation of
Buildings
(i) procuring equipment to complement DGTP's road
maintenance brigades and repairing and overhauling
existing equipment; and
(ii) constructing and renovating buildings and other
facilities to support road maintenance and
training facilities;



- 15 -
(d)   Technical Assistance
(i) for executing road maintenance activities,
repairing and overhauling equipment during the
project life and aiding institutional development;
(ii) for promoting development of petty road
maintenance contractors in rural areas; and
(iii) for promoting transport planning and conducting a
study of the trucking industry operations;
(e)   Training:  for filling both the immediate project needs
and developing personnel for handling key decision-making
roles in DGTP over the long-term.
3.04     MTP, through resident FAC experts, will coordinate the project
with other ongoing and planned rehabilitation works under FAC, FED, and
GTZ programs. DGTP will maintain (routine and periodic) the
rehabilitated roads with the works being financed through the Road Fund.
Rehabilitation
(i) Gravel Roads
3.05     The 1,217 km of gravel roads to be rehabilitated are all in poor
condition. Characteristically they have little laterite surfacing and
poor drainage. Most are narrow with trees and vegetation crowding road
edges. Rehabilitation works will consist of: installing culverts;
digging side drains and turnouts; widening the base where appropriate and
clearing vegetation; and installing laterite surfacing. Three rehabili-
tation standards have been defined (Table 3.1, Regular, Intermediate and
Light) to reflect the quantities of works and traffic volumes on the
roads. Rehabilitation would be to regular and intermediate standards on
65% of the length where justified by existing and anticipated traffic and
to light standard on the remaining 35%. Gravel thickness and surface
width as well as the number of drainage structures will vary with the
applicable standard. Additionally, DGTP brigades will carry out
complementary works consisting of periodic spot and light regravelling on
about 1,000 km of the rehabilitated roads over 1983-85 through force
account. This work will be financed through the Road Fund. Although the
light rehabilitation will not last as long as regular and intermediate
rehabilitation, it is adequate considering the low level of traffic on
these roads and will permit effective maintenance at a reasonable cost.
The major concern is that all sections of the priority network be
rehabilitated, so that key coffee and cotton growing areas can evacuate
their crops.



- 16 -
(ii) Bangui-M'Baiki Road
3.06      The 102 km, 6 m wide, Bangui-M'Baiki road was paved under the
First Highway Project in 1972, but has been poorly maintained. The 1981
traffic varies from 600 vpd near Bangui to 130 vpd near M'Baiki; heavy
trucks comprise 40% of the traffic. The laterite-cement pavement is
badly damaged on about 13% of the road length, and the surfacing consist-
ing of a double-bituminous surface treatment (DBST) is cracked throughout
the entire length. In addition, the road has been endangered by the
heavy rainfalls; its remaining useful life will soon be over unless sub-
stantial rehabilitation works are carried out in the near future. The
project proposes to finance partial or total reconstruction of the pave-
ment on 13.2 km, periodic maintenance of side drains and shoulders and a
single bituminous surface treatment (SBST) on the whole length.
Reconstruction of Bangui-Ymbi Road
3.07      The Bangui-Ymbi section (6.5 km) is the north exit of Bangui to
Ymbi, the starting point of the recently constructed Bangui-Sibut and
Bangui-Bossembele paved roads. The existing pavement, constructed in
1965, narrows to 4.5 m on some sections and is in exceedingly poor shape.
Traffic, mainly commuters, is about 2,100 vpd, plus as many as 2,500 two
wheelers and a large number of pedestrians. The project will finance the
reconstruction of the section to a two-lane standard by contractor.
Works include a 7 m wide pavement plus two cycle tracks on the existing
alignment; two 2 m wide sidewalks; 1 small bridge and enlarging 2 small
culverts.
Consultant Services
3.08      The proposed project provides for 117 man-months of consultant
services to DGTP for supervision of the road rehabilitation and
reconstruction works.
Complementary Equipment and Buildings
3.09      The proposed project provides for:
(a)   procurement of highway equipment to complement existing
Japanese equipment and other salvageable existing equip-
ment (Table 3.2);
(b)   procurement of spare parts for rehabilitation of existing
equipment;
(c)   procurement of workshop equipment and tools for the DM
workshop in Bangui (Table 3.3);
(d)   renovation and construction of buildings, offices and
workshops for DM in Bangui, the DER in Bambari and CFPTP
in Bangui (Table 3.4);



- 17 -
(e)   procurement of surveying and training equipment needs for
buildings in (d); and
(f)   procurement of hand tools and equipment needed to promote
development of small scale road maintenance contractors in
rural areas.
Technical Assistance
(i) DGTP
3.10     Technical assistance to DGTP (Table 3.5) includes:
(a)   99 man-months to assist DER, including a senior highway
engineer to act as mission chief in road maintenance
activities;
(b)   103 man-months to DM, including a mechanical engineer to
act as a counterpart to the DM director; and
(c)   32 man-months of assistance to DGTP to promote petty con-
tractors in rural areas.
3.11     The project provides for a pilot scheme aimed at executing
routine road maintenance by contract on about 500 km in a selected
district. The preparation phase of the scheme requires a consultant for
four man-months to assess its feasibility and to:
(a)   select candidate contractors in the communities along the
selected roads for routine road maintenance; and,
(b)   provide initial training to the selected candidates to
manage groups of about 10 to 20 road workers;
The implementation phase would require 28 man-months of assistance from a
road maintenance expert experienced in labor intensive road maintenance.
The expert will:
(a)   provide on-the-job training to the groups of workers under
candidate contractor management and assess the organiza-
tional capability of candidate contractors;
(b)   select, on behalf of DGTP, successful candidates for rou-
tine road maintenance contracts;
(c)   assist DGTP monitor and administer the scheme; and,
(d)   supervise work performed by the selected contractors.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to award routine maintenance
works contracts to selected contractors.



- 18 -
(ii) MT
3.12     An economist/planner (26 man-months) will assist the Directorate
of Studies and Documentation to develop capacity for transport planning
through a program of training; establish a transport documentation
center; and help to execute the Directorate's work program.
Additionally, a road transport specialist would be provided to MT (3 man-
months) to carry out a study of the trucking industry operations.
Training
3.13     Eight hundred and sixty-five trained office and field staff will
be needed in the short and medium term to execute the 1983-85 maintenance
program; about half in DM and the rest in DER. After 1985, trained road
and equipment maintenance personnel will be expected to assume responsi-
bility for most of the road maintenance operations. The training pri-
marily addresses road foremen, technicians, overseers, mechanics, equip-
ment operators, truck drivers, accountants and administrative personnel.
The immediate short-term training for 466 DER and DM staff will be pro-
vided in Bangui in the renovated and re-equipped CFPTP (depending on the
individual trainee's needs, job category and level of skills required,
the training will last 1 to 6 weeks and total about 390 man-months,
Table 3.6). CFPTP's capacity will be strengthened through provision of
three training experts (totalling 84 man-months, Table 3.5): (i) a
highway engineer with extensive administrative and training experience to
act as the CFPTP Director's counterpart, (ii) an experienced mechanic;
and (iii) a highway technician. The engineer would help run CFPTP,
devise curriculae in line with the knowledge, skills and abilities of
trainees, ensure quality control of the training and advise the CFPTP
Director on the appropriate training format and methods. The mechanic
would help to implement the training for DM personnel and the highway
technician for DER personnel.
3.14     The medium and long-term training needs would be met through
training abroad, where practicable in those Francophone countries in West
Africa where adequate facilities exist, and would include four instruc-
tors (9 months each for 1 highway technician and 3 chief mechanics) and
42 key road and equipment personnel. Upon completion of training, the
instructors will gradually replace the experts provided to CFPTP and
ensure on-the-job training in the field for the rest of DM and DER
staff. With upgraded skills, the 42 trained road equipment and
maintenance personnel (7 highway engineers, 19 highway technicans and 16
chief mechanics) will fill DGTP's decision-making posts both during
project execution and afterwards. This training will require from 6 to
24 months, depending on the trainee's needs (which were determined by
consultants during project preparation) and will total 581 man-months
(including 36 man-months for instructor training, Table 3.6). The
Government agrees that: (i) trainees will be selected in accordance with
the criteria and timetable acceptable to IDA; (ii) the training facili-
ties to be used outside CAR will be selected in consultation with IDA;
and (iii) in order to meet DGTP's needs for young engineers, send to
foreign civil engineering schools three appropriately selected students



- 19 -
in each of 1983, 1984 and 1985. The Government would provide or continue
to provide employment within MTP for all students who complete their
studies successfully and for all DER and DM staff having successfully
completed their training abroad.
C. Status of Project Preparation
3.15     A PPF (Credit P137CA, $490,000) and thereafter the Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1150-CA, $4.5 million, July 1981) financed the
preparation of the proposed project and of Government's road maintenance
program. Consultants BCEOM (France) prepared the detailed engineering
and the bidding documents. According to normal French engineering prac-
tice, final details will be furnished by the contractors before execu-
tion. As the works are essentially rehabilitation of existing roads, the
final quantities are not expected to change substantially. None of the
project components will adversly affect the environment. Minor alignment
rectifications on some hazardous gravel road sections and opening borrow
pits will involve small quantities of state-owned non-agricultural land.
The improved road surface conditions, geometric standards and adequate
drainage will contribute to road safety; the renovation of existing
buildings will not disturb existing land use. Consultants also prepared
an equipment maintenance and a training program. (FAC financed the
preliminary studies including the staffing, equipment and financing
needed by DGTP to increase its road maintenance efforts and to cover the
priority network by 1985.) As part of the Government's larger road
maintenance program, DGTP, with existing brigades and Road Fund financing
has started light rehabilitation and maintenance of selected sections of
the network. This work is being guided by two technical assistants
financed under the Technical Assistance Project.
D. Cost Estimates
3.16     The total cost of the project, net of taxes but including con-
tingencies, is estimated at US$48.1 million equivalent, with foreign
costs of about US$40 million (83%). The Government confirmed its
intention, during negotiations, to exempt all project components from
taxes, except for fuel. Cost estimates, in April 1982 prices, are given
below and are detailed in Table 3.7.



- 20 -
CFAF (millions)                US$ (thousands)
Foreign   Local   Total        Foreign   Local   Total
I. Rehabilitation Program
A.  Bangui - M'baiki                  1,011      143   1,154         3,370      477   3,847
B.  Bangui -Ymbi                      1,025      145   1,170         3,417      483   3,900
C.  Sibut-Bambari                     1,119     157   1,276          3,730      523   4,253
D.  Bambari - Bangassou                 768     109      877         2,560      363   2,923
E.  Sibut - Sido                      1,399      196   1,595         4,662      655   5,317
F.  Bossembele - Bossangoa              513      72      585         1,710      241   1,951
G.  Bossangoa - Bedaoyo                 395      55      450         1,316      184   1,500
H.  Works by force account              594     231      825         1,980      770      750
Subtotal I         6,824   1,108   7,932         22,746   3,694  26,440
II. Institutional Development
L.  Equipment                         1,306     184   1,490          4,354      612   4,966
J.  Buildings                           179      96      275           595      322      917
K.  Technical assistance                867      141   1,008         2,891      470   3,361
L.  Training                            360     314      674         1,200   1,047   2,247
Subtotal II        2,712      735   3,447         9,040   2,451  11,491
Total Project      9,536   1,843  11,379         31,786   6,145  37,931
Physical contingencies                  1,028      150   1,178         3,426      500   3,926
(15% on rehabilitation
10% on other relevant
components)
Price contingencies                     1,442      444   1,886         4,806   1,482   6,288
Grand Total       12,006   2,437  14,443         40,018   8,127  48,145
3.17     Cost estimates for civil works are based on the consultant study
which takes into consideration past bids for rehabilitation and other
similar works and have been updated for inflation. Costs of equipment
and spare parts are based on supplier quotations. The average man-month
of technical assistance is estimated at US$9,700 including salaries,
overhead, housing and travel. Costs for training abroad are estimated at
$1,700 per man-month including travel of trainees but excluding salaries.
3.18     Physical contingency of 15% of the base costs is included for
road works and 10% for other relevant project components (Table 3.7).
Experience with previous IDA projects in CAR (in particular the Third
Highway Project) shows that the final cost of civil works is sensitive to
inflation and that domestic civil works costs increase faster than inter-
national costs because of the high transportation costs; local price
contingencies are therefore included in the costs at the rate of 12% per
year through 1987. Price contingencies for the foreign costs follow IDA
guidelines. Total contingencies are US$10.2 million or 27% of the base



- 21 -
costs net of taxes, of which price contingencies are US$6.3 million or
about 16% of base costs net of taxes.
E.  Financing
3.19     The size and scope of the proposed project are in line with the
immediate needs of the road network and the Government's plans for
rehabilitating CAR's economy. The Government would contribute an
estimated US$4.1 million equivalent or 9% of the total estimated cost of
US$48.1 million. Donors participating in the project would contribute
US$26.0 million in addition to the proposed IDA credit of US$18.0 mil-
lion. The following financing plan was accepted by the Government and
various donors.
Amounts to be Financed Including Contingencies
(US$ millions)
Financing Agencies
Kuwait
Components                  CAR  ADF  BDEAC  FAC   Fund   OPEC  IDA   Total
Rehabilitation
A.  Bangui-Mbaiki           0.1  5.0                                        5.1
B.  Bangui-Ymbi             0.1                              5.1            5.2
C.  Sibut-Bambari           0.5                       5.7                  6.2
D.  Bambari-Bangassou       0.8                                    4.0     4.8
E.  Sibut-Sido              0.7                                    7.3      8.0
F.  Bossembele-Bossangoa  0.4           1.3   1.2                          2.9
G.  Bossangoa-Bedaoyo       0.5               2.1                          2.6
Institutional Development
H.  Equipment
- Highway Equipment          4.4                                       4.4
- Office Equipment                                            1.0      1.0
- Promotion of petty
contractors                                                 0.2      0.2
I.  Buildings                                                      1.1     1.1
J.  Technical Assistance                                           4.1     4.1
K.  Training
- Fellowships abroad                      1.2                          1.2
- Local training       1.0                                    0.3      1.3
TOTAL              4.1  9.4   1.3   4.5    5.7    5.1 18.0    48.1
3.20     The IDA credit of US$18.0 million will finance:  (i) technical
assistance; (ii) rehabilitation of the Bambari-Bangassou and Sibut-Sido
roads; (iii) construction and renovation of buildings, and procurement of
office equipment; and (iv) hand tools and miscellaneous equipment for



- 22 -
promotion of petty contractors. As two non-IDA financed project
components are important for the successful implementation of the project
as a whole (i.e. the Kuwait Fund financed Sibut-Bambari road section to
complement the IDA financed Bambari-Bangassou section and the ADF
financed complementary equipment to ensure adequate maintenance of the
rehabilitated network) the proposed project credit effectiveness would be
contingent upon effectiveness of the Kuwait Fund loan and ADF credit.
3.21      The Government's contribution of US$4.1 million to the project
will be financed by the Road Fund. Additionally, the Road Fund will
finance US$6.3 million for the maintenance of the priority network during
1983-85. During negotiations the Government confirmed that: (a) the Road
Fund will be exclusively used for maintenance of the rural priority
network; and (b) the levy on gasoline, premium and diesel fuel, whose
proceeds are directly deposited into the Road Fund, will be increased
annually in order to preserve at least its initial real value of CFAF
20/lt in June 1981 prices, and adjusted by June 1983 in order to balance
the Road Fund budget for 1984 (US$3.5 million) and 1985 (US$4.3 million,
Table 3.8). Increases in the levy on motor fuels will be effective by
June of each year.
F. Procurement
3.22      Contracts for rehabilitation of the Bambari-Bangassou and Sibut-
Sido gravel roads will be awarded through ICB. LCB procedures, which are
sound, will be followed for building construction and renovation. Hand
tools, office and miscellaneous equipment may be procured through limited
international tendering on the basis of offers from at least three
suppliers. Award of contracts for the other components of the project
will follow procurement procedures of the respective donors. Laboratory
tests will be carried out under contracts with LBTP. The Government
through ICB has selected a single firm, acceptable to IDA, to provide
technical assistance for the whole project and consultant services for
supervision of works. Supervision for works included in individual
packages, will be financed by and be the responsibility of the respective
donors.
G. Implementation
3.23      MTP, through DGTP, will implement the project except the techni-
cal assistance to MT which, including the trucking industry study, will
be implemented by MT through DED. MTP will also coordinate project
implementation with FED, FAC and GTZ activities. The Administrator of
the Road Fund and the two key FAC expatriates in DGTP will assist the
Minister and the Director-General coordinate and implement the project
and the Government's larger maintenance program. Regardless of the
source of financing, the Government has agreed to retain, for the
duration of the project, these experts as Advisor to the Minister,
Administrator of the Road Fund and Deputy-Director General of DGTP, and
to seek IDA approval before changing their responsibilities.



- 23 -
3.24     In addition to the maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under
the project, DGTP will maintain the rest of the priority network through
DER and its Arrondissement Est in Bambari, Arrondissement Ouest in Bouar
and the Paved Road Maintenance Service (SERB) in Bangui.  The technical
assistance team (para. 3.10) will assist DER in carrying out maintenance
works with mechanized units and laborers. Each Arrondissement will use
one grading brigade, one bridge repair unit and one support unit (to
support the equipment fleet and to open laterite borrow pits). In addi-
tion, the Arrondissement Est will use two regravelling brigades; SERB
will use a patching unit. Labor intensive methods will be used for rou-
tine maintenance works carried out by force account and by the petty
contractors. Each Arrondissement has five subdivisions for logistic
support and labor supervision while SERB has two subdivisions.
3.25     DGTP will execute the maintenance program and complementary
works on the rehabilitated roads with existing, overhauled and new
equipment. A technical assistance team will assist DM to overhaul and
maintain the highway equipment.
3.26     DGTP will implement the training component of the proposed proj-
ect through its Administrative Directorate. The short training courses
will be provided in CFPTP in Bangui by local instructors and experts of
the technical assistance teama. For the specialized training courses,
selected DGTP staff will be sent abroad (instructor training, etc.,
para. 3.14).
3.27     Except technical assistance to MT, DGTP will implement the re-
maining elements of the proposed project through DEPC with the assistance
of the relevant experts of the technical assistance team. For the pur-
pose of co-financing arrangements and procurement, the project is de-
signed on a modular basis. Each module/package can be implemented inde-
pendently with flexibility in the execution schedules.
3.28     All road rehabilitation or reconstruction works packages include
civil works, laboratory tests and all supervision costs. Consultants
prepared the tender documents under the Technical Assistance project
(Credit 1074-CA). The tendering procedure should commence by June 1982
in order for the works to start in April 1983. Consultants will
supervise the works on paved roads (26 man-months) as well as the
rehabilitation of gravel roads (91 man-months). The Mission Chief for
technical assistance, reporting to DGTP through DEPC, will coordinate
supervision of works. Each supervising consultant will be assisted by a
counterpart inspector of works. Inspectors of works will assume
progressively broader supervision responsibilities as part of on-the-job
training. LBTP will be in charge of technical control and materials
reception.
3.29     Execution periods and the road standards for the different road
packages are:



- 24 -
Length              Standard               Execution Period
Road                           (km)                                          (months)
A.   Bangui - M'Baiki                102                 paved                        14
B.   Bangui - Ymbi                   6.5                 paved                        14
C.   Sibut - Bambari                 200           gravel - regular                  24
D.   Bambari - Bangassou             351      gravel - 33% intermediate               24
- 67% light
E.   Sibut - Sido                   321          gravel - 47% regular                30
- 53% intermediate
F.   Bossembele - Bossangoa          150           gravel - regular                   16
G.   Bossangoa - Bedaoyo             195           gravel - light                     10
Disbursements and reporting
3.30     The proposed IDA credit of US$18.0 million will be disbursed to
cover 100% of the contract costs of the following items:
(a)   rehabilitation of the Bambari-Bangassou and the Sibut-Sido
gravel roads including supervision of works (US$8.2
million);
(b)   renovation of existing buildings and construction of new
buildings in Bangui (US$0.9 million);
(c)   technical assistance totalling 347 man-months (US$3.4 mil-
lion) to: (i) DGTP (318 man-months); and (ii) MT (29 man-
months); and
(d)   office and miscellaneous equipment for renovated and new
buildings and for technical assistance (US$1.0 million).
An amount of US$4.5 million will remain unallocated.
3.31     Beginning March 1982, the Road Fund will prefinance 35 man-
months of technical assistance to prepare implementation of the project
and to implement the road maintenance program: Mission Chief of the tech-
nical assistance team (7 man-months), highway technician and mechanic
(2 x 5 man-months), mechanical engineer (7 man-months), mechanical
technician (4 man-months), consultant (2 man-months), highway engineer
for CFPTP (2 man-months), and a road transport specialist (3 man-months).
The Road Fund will also prefinance the urgently needed spare parts for
equipment rehabilitation. The IDA credit agreement provides for



- 25 -
retroactively reimbursing the Road Fund for the cost of 35 man-months of
technical assistance totalling up to US$360,000.
3.32     The proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed by mid
1988. Although compared with the implementation schedule the disbur-
sements shown in Table 3.9 assume a delay of up to one year in completion
of works, they are still somewhat faster than the disbursement profile
for the transportation sector in CAR. However, this is reasonable consi-
dering that 76% of the credit is allocated to works which will be exe-
cuted by contractors according to established techniques. Preparation of
tender documents is well advanced and construction will start in April
1983. IDA financed works are expected to be completed by the middle of
1985. The remaining 24% of the IDA credit is allocated to technical
assistance, disbursements for which will be on a monthly basis for the 3
year project duration. Requests for disbursements will be fully
documented. The Government has agreed during negotiations to submit a
progress report to the Association every three months and a project
completion report within six months after physical completion of works.
Auditors acceptable to the Association will be employed to audit the
project and the Road Fund.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     The Government's economic recovery targets are based on improved
road communications. Therefore, it gives high priority to network reha-
bilitation. However, years of neglect have contributed to severe dete-
rioration of roads to the extent that access is difficult even during the
dry months between food producing regions and the consuming centers.
Increasing difficulties are being encountered in evacuating staples and
cash crops (coffee, cotton and tobacco). During the rainy months, occa-
sional food shortages occur in urban areas.
4.02     An estimated 1.2 million inhabitants (50% of CAR's population)
live in the zones of influence of the project roads: 552,000 along the
Sibut-Bambari-Bangassou axis, and 292,000 and 303,000 respectively along
the Sibut-Kaga Bondoro-Sido and the Bossembele-Bossangoa-Bedaoyo axis.
The population is growing at 5% annually which is about twice the
national growth rate. Economically the area has considerable poten-
tial. Consultants estimate that farm incomes are expected to increase
from about CFAF 3.1 billion in 1982 to about CFAF 5.8 billion in 1986 as
a result of ongoing efforts to restore agriculture in the area. During
the 1979-80 harvest, the two major cash crops produced in the project's
zone of influence were:
(a)   Cotton:  24,600 tons.  Ginneries managed by SOCADA pro-
duced 9,100 tons of lint which yields a ginning coeffi-
cient of 0.37. Seven thousand tons of cotton was trans-
ported along the Sibut-Bambari-Bangassou road, 8,400 tons
along the Sibut-Kaga Bondoro-Sido road and 9,200 tons



- 26 -
along the Bossembele-Bossangoa-Bedaoyo axis. SOCADA
expects production to increase to 37,000 tons in 1982 and
77,000 tons by 1986, which appears reasonable considering
that during the early 1970s average production in the area
exceeded 50,000 tons annually and that the availability of
farm land is not a constraint. Existing ginning capacity
is sufficient to process increased production.
(b)   Coffee:  7,200 tons along the Sibut-Bambari-Bangassou
axis. The Agence de Developpement de la Zone Cafeiere
(ADECAF) estimates that 3,500 tons of harvested coffee
could not be evacuated because the road from Alindao to
Bangassou is impassable. ADECAF plans to increase coffee
production to 8,000 tons in 1982 and to 10,900 tons in
1986.
4.03      Other crops in the area include groundnuts, sorghum, paddy and
manioc. Tobbacco production, mainly for local demand, has stabilized at
about 700 tons. The Government plans to open a sugar refinery (in 1985)
and is arranging financing for it. The refinery will produce about 8,400
tons of sugar from an expected 84,000 tons of cane to be harvested in the
Ouaka district (Sibut-Bangassou axis).
B. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.04      About 90% of the quantified project benefits consist of reduced
vehicle operating costs accruing almost entirely to normal traffic. The
balance is mainly the value added by increased cotton production which,
in the absence of two sections of the unpaved project roads i.e. Kaga-
Bondoro-Sido and Bossangoa-Bedaoyo, could not be evacuated. (Value added
is not used for other roads.) The net present value of the project's
benefits (discounted at 12%) is CFAF 6.5 billion out of which the value
added by cotton accounts for CFAF 573 million or about 8% of the total.
Considering the unpaved network alone, the share of benefits from vehicle
operating cost savings is 80% and value added is 17% (CFAF 2.8 billion vs
CFAF 573 million) with the remainder being the minor benefits of road
maintenance costs' savings.
4.05      Unquantified project benefits include cargo and passenger jour-
ney time savings, increased road safety, dependable year-round access,
regeneration of economic activities in the zones of influence of the
roads and their integration into the mainstream of CAR's economy. Addi-
tional benefits would be gained from perishable cash crops and staples
which could not be evacuated formerly, but would now have all weather
access to markets. Pedestrians, two-wheelers and push carts would bene-
fit particularly from the improved safety and comfort on the Bangui-Ymbi
Road. Although unquantified, these benefits would be considerable.
4.06      Project beneficiaries would be widespread since the high trans-
port costs (on project roads) would be reduced between the capital and
its populated agricultural hinterland. In addition to half of the coun-



- 27 -
try's population living in the zones of influence of the project roads,
CAR's exports, which are sensitive to transport costs, would benefit and
become more competitive in foreign markets. This benefit would increase
ACCF's traffic and its revenues as river transport will continue to be
the leading outlet for CAR's exports. Immediate beneficiaries would be
the small family farm operators whose crops would now be evacuated and
marketed, as well as road users: automobile owners and truckers including
limited international traffic. Improved access throughout the priority
network is expected to increase competition among truckers which would
benefit domestic consumers in the forrn of stable supply and lowered cost
of staples in urban areas. In the final analyses, the whole country
would benefit from reductions in transport costs and restoration of
access between the producing areas and the marketing centers.
4.07     In addition, the project is designed to develop DGTP's capacity
to execute and manage road maintenance operations through technical as-
sistance, procurement of complementary equipment and a practical training
program. These advancements would ensure that the priority network reha-
bilitation is executed as planned, and when completed, that the network
would be maintained. Technical assistance to MT on the other hand would
make the needed start in improving the procedures for the allocation of
scarce resources to the transport sector, promotion of rational criteria
for defining project priorities, training counterparts and establishing a
transport documentation center.
C. Economic Analysis
Methodology
4.08     For the purpose of economic evaluation, the analysis has been
carried out in three stages: (a) the network addressed by the project;
(b) individual unpaved and paved links; and (c) sub-sections of each link
to account for varying traffic volumes. Costs (January 1981) are net of
taxes and include: (a) base costs for civil works; (b) physical contin-
gencies; and (c) supervision of works. The analysis is based on the
consultants' feasibility study and incorporates the results of the High-
way Design and Maintenance Model (HDMM) and estimates of value added. It
has been updated to reflect the latest cost estimates and packaging of
road sections into construction lots for cofinancing arrangements.
4.09     Consultants collected field data for the HDMM, the computations
of value added and simulated the "with" and "without" project senarios.
The updated analysis of the Bangui-M'Baiki Road assumes that if the badly
deteriorated sections are not repaired immediately and the entire road is
not surface dressed (para. 3.07), it will revert to a gravel road in poor
condition by 1985 and will entail high vehicle operating costs. (Table
4.1 shows the range of typical vehicle operating costs on the project
roads.) Value added by increased cotton production is used in the ana-
lyses of two road sections: (a) Kaga Bondoro-Sido; and (b) Bossangoa-
Bedaoyo. Estimates of value added are based on North European CIF prices
for lint. Costs of intermediate processes have therefore been netted



- 28 -
out, i.e., seed, fertilizer, transport from farm to ginnery, ginning
costs, subsidies, marketing and overhead costs, transport to Bangui,
shipping and handling costs to Pointe Noire-Europe. A ginning coeffi-
cient of 0.37 has been retained and export duties excluded from the esti-
mated value of CFAF 49/kg (U.S. cents 18/kg) in end 1980 prices. Farmers
have been assumed to pay full price of inputs.
Analysis Network
4.10     Five trunk roads (totalling 1,217 km) with considerable regional
development impacts have been analyzed. The paved roads analyzed are:
(a) the Bangui-M'Baiki stretch, and (b) the heavily trafficked suburban
Bangui-Ymbi Road.
Maintenance Activities and Unit Costs
4.11     In order to assess the impact of varying road maintenance inten-
sities on the total transport costs, five unpaved and four paved road
maintenance activities were used in the analysis. For unpaved roads,
these are: dry and wet season grading, spot and periodic regravelling
plus routine maintenance. The maintenance activities for the paved roads
are: patching, surface dressing, rehabilitation and routine maintenance.
The unit costs of these activities are based on productivity analyses of
maintenance operations, the component shares of labor, equipment and
material as appropriate. The least cost maintenance strategy selected
reflects the modest efficiency gains which would result from Lhe training
to be provided under the proposed project.
Traffic Growth
4.12     Base year traffic volumes  are based on the consultants' origin-
destination survey and available DEPC counts. Estimates of traffic
growth incorporate projections of agricultural developments in the zones
of influence of the project roads, population growth and the expected
increases in farmers receipts. These have been checked against the plans
of major producers' cooperatives and marketing agencies such as SOCADA,
ACADOP, ADECAF and COTTONCHAD. For 1983-86, annual growth rates vary
between 5% to 15% and are reasonable considering the modest initial
traffic volumes (Table 4.2) and the Government's efforts to restore
agriculture as well as the poor roads which have inhibited road
traffic. For 1986-92, the growth rates are between 3% to 9% per year.
Growth of the paved road traffic is conservatively estimated at 5% per
year for 1983-93; the same as the average population growth rate in the
zones of influence of the roads.  Although additional traffic would mate-
rialize when the mining operations start around Bakouma (north of
Bangassou), it was not considered in the growth estimates because the
timing of commercial exploitation of the uranium deposits is uncertain.
Economic Rates of Return
4.13     The best overall estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR)
(Table 4.3) is a satisfactory 29%. The estimated ERR for investments in



- 29 -
paved roads is 28% and for unpaved roads is 30%, both of which are satis-
factory. The ERR's for individual roads vary between 17% (Bambari-
Alindao) and 38% (Sibut-Kaga Bondoro). The overall net present value,
discounted at 12% is CFAF 6.5 billion. For the paved roads, the net
present value is CFAF 3.1 billion and for the unpaved roads, CFAF 3.4
billion. It is also positive and satisfactory for individual roads.
4.14     Nevertheless there may be some risk that bid prices could be
higher than the current estimates. There may also be a possibility that
despite the seasonal correction in the traffic estimates a small
overcount may exist which would mean that the benefits would be
overestimated. This discrepancy could be important considering that 80%
to 90% of the benefits arise from vehicle operating cost savings.
Furthermore, part of the benefits on two road sections comes from the
value of increased cotton production. As adverse conditions could affect
the cotton actually produced in the zones of influence of these road
sections, the benefits also could be similarly affected. Therefore,
sensitivity tests have been made to assess the impact of the above risks
on the estimated ERRs and the results are satisfactory:
Impact                                            ERR
Overall   Unpaved Roads   Paved Roads
20% increase in costs              25%           25%              24%
20% decrease in benefits           23%           22%              23%
50% reduction in cotton
production                      29%           27%
In the unlikely event that the cost of civil works increase by 20% simul-
taneously with a 20% drop in benefits, the overall rate of return would
still be a satisfactory 18%. Under these conditions the unpaved roads
would yield an ERR of 17% and the paved roads 19%.
4.15     The design standards of the project roads reflect the traffic
intensity and are appropriate. The works will be carried out by
contractors and do not present any abnormal risks as they will be
executed according to established engineering practices and supervised by
competent consultants. However, there remains some risk based on past
IDA experience that funds for the maintenance of the rehabilitated
network may be inadequate. To minimize the impact of this risk, the
Government has confirmed that adequate funds will be available for road
maintenance and has agreed to an adequate road maintenance budget for
1983-85.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a)   the terms of reference for:  (i) DED; and (ii) technical
assistance to MT (para. 1.21);
(b)   (i) the terms of reference for the trucking industry
study; (ii) propose not later than December 31, 1983,
based on the recommendations of the trucking industry
study specific measures to strengthen the industry and
afford the Association the opportunity to comment thereon;
and (iii) promptly thereafter take all measures necessary
to strengthen the industry, taking into account the
Association's comments (para. 2.09);
(c)   not to make any material change in the organizational,
financial and administrative structure of the Road Fund,
without prior approval from the Association (para. 2.23);
(d)   award routine maintenance contracts to selected petty
contractors (para. 3.11);
(e)   (i) select trainees in accordance with the criteria and
timetable acceptable to the Association; (ii) select over-
seas training facilities in consultation with the Associa-
tion; and (iii) send to foreign civil engineering schools
three appropriately selected students each year from 1983
through 1985. The Government also agreed to provide or
continue to provide employment within MTP for all students
who complete their studies successfully and for all DER
and DM staff having successfully completed their training
abroad (para. 3.14);
(f)   (i) use the Road Fund exclusively for maintenance of the
rural priority network; and (ii) increase the Road Fund
levy on gasoline, premium and diesel fuel, annually in
order to preserve at least its real initial value of CFAF
20/lt in June 1981 prices, and adjust it by June 1983 to
balance the 1984 and 1985 requirements (para. 3.21);
(g)   (i) regardless of the sources of finance, retain for the
duration of the project, three high level experts as
Advisor to the Minister of Public Works, Administrator of
the Road Fund, and Deputy-Director General of DGTP; and
(ii) seek IDA approval before changing their responsibi-
lities (para. 3.23); and
(h)   submit progress reports to the Association every three
months and a project completion report within six months
of physical completion of works. Auditors acceptable to



- 31 -
the Association will be employed to audit the Road Fund
(para. 3.32).
5.02     During negotiations the Government confirmed:  (i) that it will
review the domestic civil aviation sector's needs as part of MT's 1983-85
work program (para. 1.19); and (ii) that it intends to exempt, with the
exception of fuel, all project related taxes (para. 3.17).
5.03     Effectiveness of the proposed credit is subject to:
(a)   the appointment of a qualified administrator of the Road
Fund (para. 2.22); and
(b)   effectiveness of the Kuwait Fund loan and ADF credit
(para. 3.20).
5.04     The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$18
million equivalent on standard IDA terms to the Government of the Central
African Republic.



- 32 -
Table 2.1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Priority Network
Length  Rehabilitation-            Maintenance
Km   Year & Financing           and Financing
National Roads   Paved    Ni  Ymbi-Bossembdl1                147   1981-Third H.P.    DGTP-RF
Ni  Rannid-vwhi                  A.5   13P4-Fourth T'.P.   DGTP-RF
Ni  Urban Sections in Bangui  4.5              _             DGTP-Municipality's Budget
N2  ymbi-Damara                   65   1977-EDF              DGTP-RF
N2  Damara-Sibut                 112   1983-EDF              DGTP-RF
N6  Bangui-M'Baik!               102   1983-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
N6  Urban Sections in Bangui    5              _             DGTP-Municipality ' s Budget
Subtotal    442
National Roads   Laterite Ni  Bossembel&-Bossangoa           148   1984-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
Ni  Bossangoa-Bedaoyo            195   1985-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
N2  Sibut-Bambari                200   1984-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
N2  Bambari-Alindao              120   1984-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
N2  Alindao-Bangassou            239   1984-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
N3  Bossemb6lg-Garoua-BoulaT  453   1983-EDF/FRG/FAC    EDF/FRG/FAC
N4  Kabo-Sido                     62   1985-Fourth H. P.  DGTP-RF
N5  Bambari-Ippy                 111   1980-FAC/CCCE        DGTP-RF
N6  Carnot-Berberati              88   1980-FAC              FAC
N6  Berberati-Gamboula            86   1979-FAC              FAC
N7  Bossembele-Bozoum             87   1984-RF              DGTP-RF
N8  Sibut-Kaga-Bandoro           154   1983-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
N8  Kaga-Bandoro-M'Bres           83   1980-FAC/CCCE        DGTP-RF
N9  Kongbo-Mobaye                 66   1983-RF              DGTP-RF
NIO  Berberati-Nola               134   1978-FAC              FAC
Nll  Baoro-Carnot                 104   1983-FAC              FAC
Subtotal   2330
Regional Roads  Laterite R10  Batangafo-Ouandago              62   1980-FAC/CCCE         DGTP-RF
R10  Kaga Bandoro-Ouandago         50   1984-Fourth H. P.  DGTP-RF
R13  Grimari-Kouango              110   1980-FAC/CCCE        DGTP-RF
R15  Bambari-Aldina_               85   1980-FAC/CCCE        DGTP-RF
Subtotal    307   _
Unclassified    Earth       -   Ouandago-Kabo                 57   1984-Fourth H.P.   DGTP-RF
Road
GRAND TOTAL      3136



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Fleet L!
Average %
Annual Growth Rate
1971     1974      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979    1974-79    1971-75
Passenger Cars      5,139    6,504    6,912    7,160    7,410    8,250    9,440    7.7                7.8
Pickups             3,378    4,404    4,684    4,890    5,125    5,755    6,755    8.9 /2             8.6
Trucks              1,740    2,280    2,396    2,440    2,510    2,760    3,010    5.7                8.4
Trailers               85       148      165       180       185      260       340   18.1           18.0
Buses                 152       211      216       216       225      270       320    8.7            9.2
Special Vehicles      285       319      321       321       322      335       345    1.6            3.0
Total        10,779   13,866   14,694   15,207   15,777   17,630   20,210    7.8               8.2
/1  Estimates from 1976 t rough 1979 are based on new registrations.  Fleet wastage has been
assumed to be d-f(cos BY) where Y average fleetage and B has been estimated at 5.75, 5.1 and
5.236 respectively for cars/pickups, buses and trucks/trailers/ special vehicles.
/2 Growth rate is distorted by heavy new vehicle registrations in 1977 and 1978.
Source: Ministry of Land and River Transport 1976, Ministry of Transport, Commerce and Industry,
1979 and Mission estimates.
September 1981



- 34 -
Table 2.3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pattern of New Vehicle Registrations
1975     1976      1977       1978      Total
Passenger Cars                   325       329     1,098      1,552      3,304
Pickups                          267       307       820      1,300      2,694
Trucks                            53        87        313       310        763
Trailers                          15         9         93       104        221
Buses                              3        12         55        61        131
Special Vehicles                   2         2         16        15         35
Total                            665       746     2,395      3,342      7,148
Source: Ministry of Transport, Commerce and Industry, May 1979



- 35 -
Table 2.4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evolution of Motor Fuel Consumption (i3)
1975     1976      1977   1978 /L   1979 11  1980 /2
Petroleum           20,873   18,854   15,100   22,875    21,000    26,400
Diesel              25,625   23,687   21,380   23,660    21,660    30,000
Total               46,498   42,541   36,480   46,535    42,660    56,400
/1 Includes an estimated 15% of imports from non-Cyntra Hydro sources.
/2 Preliminary figures based on TOCAGES' data for six months.
Source: Cyntra Hydro and TOCAGES 1980



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the Priority Network
Total km          Total km
Kilometers of Priority Network According to Range of Traffic            Priority Network        Network
National Roads                         0-20 vpd   20-50 vpd    50-150 vpe   150-400 vpd    over 400 vpd
Paved                                  --          --            351            75               16                442                442
Laterite                              1473         503           354            --               -                2.330              2.330
Earth                                  --          --             -                                                 -                2.272
Regional Roads
Laterite                               307                        --            --               --                307                364
Earth                                  __--                                                                         -                3.570
Unclassified Roads
Eartb Tracks                            57          ---                                  -                           57             11.300
Subtotal paved roads                   --          --            351             75               16               442                442
Subtotal laterite roads              1.780         503           354            -                -                2.637              2.694
Subtotal earth roads/tracks             57         --             --            --               -                  57              17.142
TOTAL                                1,837         503           705             75               16              3.136             20,278     .
Source:  DEPC, MTP



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Actual Highway Expenditures 1976-1979 and Resources Acquired Since 1979
(CFAF million)
Additional Resources
Actual Investments                TOTAL        Acquired After 1979
1976      1977      1978       1979    (1976-79)         1980      1981       1980T-    1981-
2 /_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1 9  8 1 -
Road Maintenance/                           N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A                       270                            767
Highway Equipment-/                                                        350        350            150
Bridge Construction-/                                 244         3                   247
Rehabilitation/Imnrovements
Nola-Barberati4                           73        160       119         21        373
Gamboula-Baoro-       5/                                                 255        255             45                  135        45
Bangui-Damara (paving)-                                       725        342      1
Damara-Sibut (paving)                      6                                          6
Bangui City Streets./      6/             35        150                             185
Bangui-Bossembele (paving)-                                            2,771      2,771          2,608     1,484
Bossembele-Garoua-Boulai2/                                               343        343            104     1,437        998
Feeder Roads and Cotton Tracks-/                                                                     900
Studies  5/
Bridges-     7/                                      18         2          5         25             32        16
Sibut-Bambari-      4                                30        55                    85
Sibut-Bangasson-Chad-`                                                                                                   25         4
Training Center (Public Works)              58        118         9                   185
TOTAL                                      172        720       913     4,087       5,892          4,109     2,937      1156        818
a
1/ Resources acquired since January 1, 1980.                                  6/  IDA/FAD, Kuwaiti Fund and National Budget.
The sources of funds are:                                                 7/  UNDP
2/  Road Fund/National Budget.                                                8/  FAC and Caisse Centrale.
3/  Japanese financing.                                                       9/  FRC, FAC and FED.
4/  FAC
5/  FED                                                                       Source:  Ministry of Planning and Finance, Bangui.
June 1981



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Road User Charges
(CFAF million)
1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980
Fuel taxes1/                     715.0         1194.50        925.4        1148.6          871.2        1735.6
New vehicles                      -             255.0         924.0          790.0         621.0         724.0
Spare parts                       -             111.0         152           161           213            262
Annual registrations2/           171.4          171.4         171.4         1.71.4         171.4         171.4
inspections & licensing
2/
Tolls-                             7.6            7.6            7.6           7.6           7.6           7.6             X
TOTAL              894.0         1739.5        1256.4        2278.6        1884.2         2900.6
1/  Estimates of fuel taxes are derived as follows: (1) density in metric tons/m3 or 0.75 gm/cc
and 0.87 gm/cc respectively for gasoline and diesel; (ii) volume of 1350 It/metric ton
1160 lt/metric ton respectively for gasoline and diesel; (iii) fuel tax of CFAF 31/lt for
gasoline and CFAF 13/lt for diesel. (Since January 1981 a special Road Fund levy for gasoline
and diesel is in force--CFAF 18/lt from January to March and CFAF 20/lt from April onwards).
2/ No data available for 1976-1980. Assumes revenues from annual registrations, inspections
licencing tolls remained at least at their 1975 level.
NOTE: Estimates of road user charges do not agree with estimates of fuel consumption (Table 2.4)
and fleet size (Table 2.2k because of source data inaccuracies.
Source:  Ministry of Finance and mission estimates, May 1981.
October 1981



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evolution of Retail Fuel Prices
(Average CFAF/1, Bangui)
1!
1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981=-
Gasoline                   92.3          92.3          92.3          117.0         131.0         163.0         202.0
Tax                    32.0          32.0           32.0           32.0          32.0          32.0          32
Road fund levy                                       -                                          -            20
Diesel                     62.3          62.3          62.3           62.3          91.0         109.0         150
Tax                    13            13             13             13            13            13            13
Road fund levy          -              -             -              -             -             -            20
1/ May 1981
Source: Bulletin Mensuel de la statistique, Republique Center Africaine.
May 1981
H
X
M0



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation Standards
PAVED ROADS
2 Lanes    Bangui-M'Baiki                                        Carriageway Width:                               6m
Shoulders Width:                               2xlm
Structure of the pavement (reconstructed sections):
surfacing:   SBST
base:   Laterite - 3% cement       0.15m
sub-base:   Laterite                    0.15 to 0.30m
sub-grade:   Draining materials          if needed
2 Lanes    Bangui-Ymbi                 Carriageway, including cycle tracks Width:                                11.6m
and                                                                Sidewalks Width:                               2+3m
2 Cycle                                       Structure of the pavement surfacing:   DBST
tracks                                                                        base:   Laterite - 3% cement        0.15m
sub-base:   Laterite                    0.30m
Design Speed:                                 60 km/h
Minimum horizontal curve radius at 2.5% of
superelevation:                                450m         0
GRAVEL ROADS
Type       Sibut-Bambari                                             Cleared Width:                                15m
Regular    Sibut-Kaga Bandoro    Widened sections (40 to 50%):  Formation width:                                   6.8m
Gravelled width:                                6.4
Non widened sections:  Minimum formation width:                                  5.3m
Regravelled width:                                4.9m
Minimum gravel thickness:                                 0.lOm
Type       Bambari-Alindao                                          Cleared Width:                                 lom
Inter-     Kaga Bandoro-Sido            Widened sections (10%):  Formation width:                                   6m
mediate    Bossembele-Bossangoa                                    Gravelled width:                                5.6m
Non Widened sections:  Minimum formation width:                                  4.8m
ReRravelled width:                                4.4
Minimum gravel thickness:                                 0.06m
Type       Alindao-Bangassou                                        Cleared width:                                lom
Light      Bossangoa--Bedaoyo                            Minimum formation width:                                 4.6m
Drainage works, grading and spot regravelling



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Equipment
Needs    Existing Equipment         To be       Urnice   cNest
Japan    Overhauled    procured    prie    $'ooo
Bulldozer 150 hp                  8         4            4             -
Grader 125 hp                    11         4            6              1        107       107
Wheel loader                      4         2            4              -
Crawler loader                    5         2            3             -
Tyred compactor 22T               9         2            3              4         93       372
Dump truck 7T                    30         0           20            10          45       450
Water tanker 8m3                   7        0            6              1          65       65
Fuel tanker 8m3                   4         0            0              4          71      284
Field service truck               4         2            -              2          72      144
Workshop truck                    4         2            -              2        103       206
Power set                         9         2            -              7           2       14
Hydraulic shovel                  2         -            2             -
Vibrating roller 0.6T             5         2            -              3          14       42
Concrete mixer                    3         -            3             _
Air compressor 50 hp              2         -            -              2          19        38
Pick up lT                       16         4            8              4         13        52
Station wagon                     6         -            4             2          14        28
Towed water tank 2m3              4         -            -             4            8        32
Patching truck 2m3                1         -            -             1          84        84
Bitumen melting furnace           1         -            1             -
Towed home-office                 4         -            -             4          64       256
Radio equipment (5 units)         1         -            -             1          14        14
Towed broom                       1         -            1             -
Bitumen heating tank              1         -            1             -
Water pump 50m3/h                15         6            6              3         10        30
Wagon drill                       1         -            1              -
Crushing plant                    1         -            1             -
Small car                         3                                    3            8       24
4 wheel drive Pick up             4                                    4          15        60
Road tractor and low bed 30T    3                                       3         97       291
Flat bed truck                    2                                     2          37       74
Crane 3T                          3                                     3         53       159
Tri.ck witn crane  lOT             1                                    1        113       113
sub TOTAL   2,939
10% of spare parts       294
TOTAL   3,233



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOlURT HIGHWAY PROJECT
Workshop Equipment and Tools
Cost
(US$ '000)
Bays and Shops of D.M. Workshop in Bangui       Heavy Pieces     Hand Tools
Highway machinery                        15             15
Vehicles                                 19             10
Machine-tool                            125              9
Engines                                  20             15
Body                                     15              9
Electricity                             11               6
Service station                          14              7
Tools store                               -             25
Shared pieces                           33               -
Subtotal         250              97
TOTAL            347
H
0&



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Buildings
New or                    DM                  Surtace                        DER          Surface                      CFPTP       Surface
Renovati n                                       m2                                          M2                                         m2
BANGUI                                          BAMBARI                                      BANGUI
New           Offices                             400    New           Offices                200    Renovation   Existing building   400
Renovation    Dressing and shower room            150    Renovation  2 Dwellings              280    Renovation   Existing workshop   200
Renovation    Parts and tools store                60    Renovation  2 Stores                 200                                               1
Renovation    Injector room                       100    Renovation  Existing buildings         -                                              4
Renovation    Hydraulic equipment room             50
Renovation    Systems overhaul shop                75
Renovation    Highway machinery shop              300
Renovation    Engines shop                        150
Renovation    Vehicles                            200
Renovation    Paint                                50
Renovation    Body shop                           150
Renovation    Saddle room                          50
Renovation    Service station                     160
New            Parking                           1027
Renovation    Surfacing of circulation area   4000
w1



- 44 -                    Table 3.5
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
Man-months
A. Consultants for Supervision of Works
Bangui-M'Baiki
1   Highway engineer                                            12
Bangui-Ymbi
1   Highway engineer                                            14
Sibut-Bambari
1   Highway technician                                          20
Bambari-Bangassou
I   Highway technician                                          20
Sibut-Sido
1   Highway technician                                          25
Bossembeli-Bossangoa
1   Highway technician                                          16
Bossangoa-Bedaoyo
1   Highway technician                                          10
Total                                                        117
B. Technical Assistance
DER
1   Senior highway engineer (Chief of Mission)                  37
1   Highway technician (gravel roads expert)                   23
I   Chief mechanic                                              23
-   Short-term specialists in accounting, maintenance
works, equipment maintenance or organization              16
Subtotal                                               99
DM
1   Mechanical engineer (fleet maintenance management,
counterpart to DM Director)                              33
1   Chief mechanic (experienced in highway
equipment repairs and machine-tools)                     30
-   Short-term mechanics (experts in specialized repairs)    30
-   Short-term specialist in cost accounting                    10
Subtotal                                              103
1   Economist                                                   26
1   Road transport specialist                                    3
Subtotal                                               29
CFPTP
1   Highway engineer (training expert, counterpart
to CFPTP Director)                                       28
1  Mechanic (training expert)                                  26
1   Highway (training expert)                                  24
-   Short-term training experts                                  6
Subtotal                                               84
Promotion of Petty Contractors in Rural Areas
1   Consultant for feasibility study                             4
1   Highway expert for implementation                          28
32
Total Technical Assistance                        347
Total Consultants and Technical Assistance          464



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
lourth Highway Project
ConsuLting Services and TechnicaL Assistance
1982                   1983                       1984                        1985                  Total
J J A S O NDJ F M A rl J J A S                                S O D J FMAMJJAS     NDJ F M A M J J A S_O N D    Nan-Months
Consultants for
Supervision of Works                                                                                                                            117
Bangui-M'Baiki                                                                                                                               12
Bangui-Ymbi                                                                                                                                  14
Sibut-Bambari                                                                                                                                20
Bambari-Bangassou                                                                                                                            20
Sibut-Sido                                                                                                                                   25
Bossembele-bossangoa                                                                                                                         16
Bossangoa-Bedaoyo                                                                                                                            10
Assistance to DER                                                                                                                                 99
I HW Engineer                                                                                                                                37
1 HW Technician                                                _                                                                             23 
I Mech. Technician                                                                                                                           23                L
Short Terms                                                                                                                                  16
Assistance to DM,                                                                                                                               103
1 Mech. Engineer                                                                                                                             33
1 Mech. Technician                     ___                                                                                                  30
Short-Term:
I Exp. machine-tools                                                                                                                      10
1 Exp. workshops                                                                                                                          10
I Exp. spec. repairs                                                                                                                      10
1 Exp. cost analysis                                                                                                                      10
Promotion Contractors                                                                                                                            32
1 Consultant                                                                                                                                  4
1 hW expert                                                                                                                                 28
Assistance to MT                                                                                                                                 29
1 Economist                                                                                                                                  26
1 Road Transport                                                                                                                              3
Specialist
Assistance to CFPTP                                                                                                                              84
1 HW Engineer                                                                                                                                28             IV
1 Mech. Technician                                                       _                                                                   26             lb
1 hW Trainer                                                                                                                                24             r o
Short-Terms                                                                                                                                   6 _  _    6o
0.
TOTAL MAN-MONTHS                          35                    167                        175                           87                     464       
May 1982



- 46 -
Table 3.6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training
Road       Equipment
I.  D6TP Needs in Personnel                                                  Maintenance   Maintenance   TOTAL
Staff needed to carry out the 1982-1984 maintenance program                 437            428         865
Engineers needed to carry out the 1985-1988 maintenance program              11              5          16
Technicians needed to carry out the 1985-1988 maintenance program            26             11          37
Foremen needed to carry out the 1985-1988 maintenance program                 20            40          60
III.  Longer Training Abroad
A. Instructor Training
Trainees    One highway technician
Three chief flechsnics (Technician)
Center   : Pedagogical and Technical for Adults
Duration    9 months
Total       36 man m,, Fjh
IT.  Short Training in CFPTP Bangui                         Cost include travel, insurance, technical
Program of Trainin                     ~~~support, literature, tuition and subsistence expenses
l-Program of Traininagni
Man-imonth af Training                              B.  Technical Upgrading
DER Staff    DM Staff                                   (Fellowships)
Engineer                                7                     Trainees    7 Highway engineers
Technician                                                                19 Highway technicians
Forehnian               65             36                                 16 Chief mechanics (Technician)
Foreman                 60             50                                 42
Overseer                20             35                     Center     Highway Technical Schools
Assistant Mechanic       -             24
Ferry staff              _              8                     Duration   6 months to 2 years
Clerk                   17             17                     Total    : 545 man months
Equipment Operator      33             1                      Cost include travel, insurance, technical
Truck driver            40 a                                  support, literature, tuition and subsistence
________E_______            expenses
TOTAL    215            177
Grand Total    392
C.  Engineering Studies
Students: 9
Center:   Civil Engineering Schools Abroad
Duration: 3 years
Total:    27 man-years
Cost includes travel, insurance, subsistence
and scholarships.



- 47 -
Table 3.7
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary Account bj Time
Base Costs
(USS ' 000)                        Foreign Exchange
No. of -------------------------------------___--_ _          ______________
Unit       Unit Cost       Units   83/84    84/85    85/86   86/87  87/88   Total            I      Ammat
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1. Bargui-Mbaiki (102 kt)
_ _ _ ___ _ ____ _____
Resealirig and repair works                        U          1,101,00O0ooo        1  1,835.0  1,468.0   367.0           -       -  3,670.0   88.0   3P229.6
Supervision (12 me)                               mXm              2,900,000      12      58.3      46.7    11.6         -       -    116.6   86.0       100.3
Laboratorv tests                                   U              18,000,000       1      30.0      24.0      6.0        -       -     60.0   66.0        39.6
Sub-Total Bansui-Mbaiki (102 ko)                                                          1,923.3  1,538.7   384.6          -       -  3,846.6   87.6   3,369.5
Physical Contingencies                                                             -    275.3    2'0.2    55.1           -       -    550.5   88.0       484.4
Price Contingencies                                                                -    180.8    298.4   114.5           -       -    593.7   81.1       481.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                         20379.3  2,057.3   554.1          -       -  4,990.8   86.9   4,335.6
Foreisrn Exchange                                                                  -  2,074.2  1,783.9   477.6           -       -  4,335.6    0.0         0.0
2. Bangui-Ymbi (6.5 kt)
Reconstrujction works                              U          1,115,000,00         1  1,858.3  1,486.7   371.7           -       -  3,716.7   88.0   3,270.7
Supervision (14 ma)                               mXm              2,900,000      14      68.3      54.7    13.6         -       -    136.7   85.0       116.2
Laboratorv tests                                   U              14P000,000       1      23.3      18.7      4.7        -       -     46.7   64.0        29.9
Sub-Total Bangui-Yabi (6.5 kh)                                                            1,950.0  1,560.0   390.0          -       -  34900.0   87.6   3,416.7
Physical Contingencies                                                             -    278.8    223.0    55.8           -      -    557.5   88.0        490.6
Price Continsencies                                                                -    183.3    302.5   116.1           -      -    601.8   81.2        488.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                         2,412.0  2,085.5   561.8          -       -  5,059.3   86.9   4,395.7
Foreign Exchange                                                                   -  2,102.9  1,808.6   4B4.2           -       -  4,395.7    0.0         0.0
3. Sibut-Bambari (200 kt)
Rehabilitatiorn works                              U          1,206,000,000        1  1,206.0  2,010.0   683.4   120.6           -  4,020.0   88.0   3,537.6
Supervision (20 on)                               mXH              2,900,000      20      58.0      96.7    32.9      5.8       -    193.3   86.0        166.3
Laboratorv tests                                   U              12'000,000       1      12.0      20.0      6.8      1.2       -     40.0   66.0        26.4
Sub-Total Sibut-Baubari (200 kn)                                                         1l276.0  2P126.7   723.1   127.6           -  4,253.3   87.7   3,730,3
Physical Contingencies                                                             -    180.9    301.5   102.5    18.1          -    603.0   88.0        530.6
Pr:ce Contingencies                                                                -    119.7    411.7   214.9    51.0           -    797.4   81.1       646.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                         1,576.6  2,B39.9 1,040.5   196.7          -  5,653.7   86.8   4,907.5
Foreign Exchange                                                                   -  1,375.9  2,465.2   897.8   168.5          -  4,907.5    0.0          0.0
4. Bambari-Bangassou (351 km)
Rehabilitation works                               U         808,000,000.01        1    808.0  1,346.7   457.9    80.8          -  2,693.3   88.0   2,370.1
Supervision (20 ue)                               NXm              2,900,000      20      58.0      96.7    32.9       5.8      -    193.3   86.0        166.3
Laboratory tests                                   U              11,000,000       1      11.0      18.3      6.2      1.1       -     36.7   64.0        23.5
Sub-Total Baebari-Bangassou (351 ki)                                                        877.0  1,461.7   497.0    87.7          -  2,923.3   87.6   2,559.9
Physical Contingencies                                                             -    121.2    202.0    68.7    12.1          -    404.0   88.0        355.5
Price Contingencies                                                                -      82.1    282.3   147.3    35.0         -    546.7   80.9        442.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                         1s080.3  1,946.0   713.0   134.8          -  3,874.0   86.7   3,357.8
Foreian Exchange                                                                   -    941.4  1l686.B   614.3   115.3          -  3,357.8    0.0         00



- 48 -
Table 3.7
Page 2 of 3
5. Sibut-Sido (321 ki)
Rehabilitation works                              U         1,508,000,000        1  1,256.7  2,010.7 1,156.1   603.2        -  5,026.7   88.0   49423.5
Supervision (25 m)                              hXI             2,900.000      25      60.9     97.3    56.0    29.2        -    243.3   86.0      209.2
Laborators tests                                 U             14,000,000       1      11.7     18.7    10.7      5.6       -     46.7   64.0       29,9
Sub-Total Sibut-Sido (321 kin)                                                         1,329.1  2,126.7 1.222.8   638.0        -  5,316.6   87.7   4,662.6
Physical Contingencies                                                          -    188.5'   301.6   173.4    90.5         -    754.0   88.0      663.5
Price Contingencies                                                             -    124.7    411.7   363.4   255.1         -  1,155.0   80.8      933.2
Sub-Total INCLUDIh6 CONTINCENCIES                                                      1,642.4  2,840.0 1,759.7   983.6        -  7,225.7   86.6   6,259.3
Foreign Exchange                                                                -  1433.2  2,465.2 1,518.3   842.6          -  6,259.3    0.0        0.0
6. Bossembele-8ossansoa (150 ke)
Rehabilitation works                             U            533,000,000       1    888.3    835.0    53.3         -       -  1.776.7   89.0   1.563.5
Supervision (16 me)                             mXH             2,900,000      16      77.1     72.1      4.6       -       -    153.9   87.0      133.9
Laboratorv tests                                 U              6,000,000       1      10.0      9.4      0.6       -       -     20.0   67.0       13.4
Sub-Total Bossembele-Bossansoa (150 ka)                                                  975.5    916.5    58.5        -       -  1,950.6   87.7   1,710.8
Physical Contingencies                                                          -    133.3    125.3       8.0       -       -    266.5   88.0      234.5
Price Contingencies                                                             -      91.1    176.6    17.3        -       -    285.1   81.4      231.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                      1,199.9  1,218.4    83.9         -      -  2P502.1   87.0  2,177.2
Foreign Exchange                                                                -  1,047.1  1,057.7    77.4         -       -  2,177.2    0.0        0.0
7. Bossansoa-Bedaovo (195 kn)
Rehabilitation works                             U            417,000,000       1    139.0    417.0   695.0   139.0         -  1,390.0   88.0   1.223.2
Supervision (10 me)                             hXI             2,900000       10       9.7     29.0    48.3      9.7       -     96.7   86.0       83.1
Laborators tests                                 U              4,000.000       1       1.3      4.0      6.7     1.3       -     13.3   75.0       10.0
Sub-Total Bossangoa-Bedaovo (195 km)                                                     150.0    450.0   750.0   150.0        -  1,500.0   87.8   1,316.3
Physical Contingencies                                                          -      20.9     62.6   104.3    20.9        -    208.5   88.0      183.5
Price Contingencies                                                             -      14.0     86.9   222.3    59.8        -    383.0   80.8      309.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING MONTINGENCIES                                                        194.9    599.4 1,076.5   230.7        -  2,091.5   86.5   1,809.3
Foreign Exchange                                                                -    161.4    520.6   929.5   197.7         -  1,809.3    0.0        0.0
8. Supplementary Works by Force Account             U         825,000,000.01       1    192.5    660.0 1,897.5         -       -  2,750.0   72.0   1,980.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                        192.5    660.0 1,897.5        -       -  2,750.0   72.0   1,980.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                -    138.6    475.2 1,366.2         -       -  1,980.0    0.0        0.0
B. INSTITUTIONAL DEYELOPhENT
1. Eauipment
SPare Parts for eeuipment rehabilitation         U            208,000,000       1    624.0      69.3        -       -      -    693.3   88.0       610.1
Compleoentarg hishwav eauipuent
(including 10% of sPare Parts)                U        970,000,000.01        1  2,910.0    323.3        -        -      -  3,233.3   88.0   2,845.3
Workshop eauipsent and tools                     U            104,000,000       1    312.0      34.7        -       -      -    346.7   88.0       305,1
Office eauipment DO                 -            U             21,000,000       1     63.0       7.0        -       -      -      70.0   84.0       58.8
Office, radio and surveying eauipment DER        U         74,000,000.001       1    222.0      24.7        -       -      -    246.7   85.0       209.7
Dtfice and training eouip ent CFPTF              U             53,000,000       1    159.0      17.7        -       -       -    176.7   90.0      159.0
Tools and eauipsent for Promotion
of saall-scale contractors                    U             60,000,000       1    180.0      20.0       -        -      -    200.0   83.0       166.0
Sub-Total Eauipment                                                                   4,470.0    496.7         -       -       -  1,966.7   87.7   4,354.0
Physical Contingencies                                                          -    138.0      15.3        -       -       -    153.3   87.6      134.3
Price Contingencies                                                             -    378.9      86.9        -       -       -    465.8   81.4      379.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                     4,986.9    598.9         -       -       -  5,585.8   87.1   4,867.4
Foreign Excharnse                                                               -  4,348.1    519.4         -       -       -  4,867.4    0.0        0.0



- 49 -
Table 3.7
Page 3 of 3
2. Buildinis
D.ll.                                            U            135,000,000       1    225.0    180.0    45.0         -       -    450.0   65.0      292.5
D.E.R.                                           U            111,000,000       1    185.0    148.0    37.0         -       -    370.0   65.0      240.5
C.F.P.T.P.                                       U             29,000,000       1      48,3     38.7      9.7       -       -     96.7   65.0       62.8
Sub-Total Buildings                                                                      458.3    366.7    91.7         -      -    916.7   65.0      595.8
Physical Contingencies                                                          -      45.8     36.7      9.2       -       -     91.7   65.0       59.6
Price Continsencies                                                             -      46.8     77.7    30.1        -       -    154.7   53.0       81.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                        551.0    481.0   131.0        -       -  1,163.0   63.4      737.3
Foreign Exchange                                                                -    352,7    303.4    81.2         -       -    737.3    0.0        0.0
3. Technical Assistance
B.1. (103 oa)                                   MXiI            2,900,000    103    289.0    299.0   239.2   129.5   39.8    996.5   86.0          857.0
D.E.R. (99 so)                                  mXII            2,900,000      99    277.4    287.1   230.1   124.7   37.7    957.0   86.0         823.0
C.F.P.T.P. (84 mm)                              MXIM            2,900,000      84    235,9    244.0   195.2   105.8   32.6    813.4   86.0         699.5
Promotion of saall-scale
contractors (32 m)                           MXII            2,900,000      32     89.9      93.0    74.4    40.3   12.4    310.D   86.0        266.6
1T (29 mm)                                       IIXI           2,900,000      30     82.2      84.1    70.6    36.7   11.6    285.2   86.0        245.2
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                                                           974.4  1,007.2   809.4   437.0  134.1  3,362.1   86.0   2Y891.4
Physical Contingencies                                                          -     97.4    100.7    80.9    43.7   13.4    336.2   86.0         289.1
Price Continsencies                                                             -     89.0    189.8   234.4   170.5   62.6    746.3   78.1         582.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                     1,160.8  1,297.7 1,124.7   651.3  210.1  4,444.6   84.7   3,763.4
Foreign Exchange                                                                -    992.2  1,102.5   949.0   545.0  174.7  3t763.4    0.0           0.0
4. Trainins
Instructor training (36 i)                      UIIXII         30,000,000       1     29.0      30.0    24.0    13.0    4.0    100.0  100.0        100.0
Technical upgrading (545 mm)                    UIIXII        280,000,000       1    270.7    280.0   224.0   121.3   37.3    933.3  100.0         933.3
Local training (392 a)                          UllXh         314,000,000       1    303.5    314.0   251.2   136.1   41.9  1O46.7    0.0           0.0
Scholarships abroad                              U             50,000,000       1     33.3      33.3    33.3    33.3   33.3    166.7  100.0        166.7
Sub-Total Training                                                                      636.5    657.3   532.5   303.7  116.5  2,246.7   53.4   1,200.0
Price Contingencies                                                             -     63.0    135.1   170.2   132.1   58.2    558.6   40.9         228.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                       699.5    792.4   702.7   435.8  174.7  2,805.2   50.9  1428.3
Foreign Exchange                                                                -    358.4    397.3   348.7   221.0  102.8  1,428.3    0.0           0.0
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                      6,539.3  2,527.8 1,433.6   740.8  250.6 11,492.1   78.7   9,041.2
Physical Contingencies                                                             -    281.3    152.7    90.1    43.7   13.4    581.2   83.1         483.0
Price Contingencies                                                                -    577.7    489.4   434.7   302.6  120.9  1,925.3   66.1   1,272.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                        7,398.2  3,170.0 1,958.4 1,087.1  384.9 13,998.6   77.1  10,796.4
Foreign Exchange                                                                   -  6Y051.5  2,322.5 1Y3'8.9   766.1  277.5 10,796.4    0.0           0.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                         157212.7 13,368.1 7r357.1 1,744.1  250.6 37,932.5   83.8  31,787,2
Physical Contingencies                                                                -  1,480.0  1,588.8   657.8   185.2   13.4  3,925.2   87.3   3,425.7
Price Contingencies                                                                   -  1P373.5  2,459.6 1,630.5   703,6  120.9  6,288.0   76.4   4Y806.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                               18,066.2 17,416.5 9,645.3 2,632.9  384.9 48,145.7   83.1  40,018.9
Foreign Exchange                                                                      - 15,326.4 14,585.7 7,739.2 2,090.1  277.5 40,018.9    0.0           0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                         157212.7 13Y368.I 7,357.1 1744.1  250.6 37,932.5   83.8  31,787,2
Physical Contingencies                                                                 -  1,480.0  1,588.8   657.8   185.2   13.4  39925,2   87.3   3,425.7
Price Contingencies                                                                    -  1P373.5  2,459.6 1,630.5   703.6  120.9  6,2B8.0   76.4   4.806.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                          189066.2 17,416.5 9Y645.3 2,632.9  384.9 48,145.7   83.1  40,018.9
Foreisn Exchange                                                                       - 15,326.4 14,585.7 7,739.2 2,090.1  277.5 40,018.9    0.0           0.0
Max 21, 1982 09:23



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOllRT IIT 1lI"WAY PROJECT
Road Fund Expenditures for Priority Network Maintenance
(in real terms)
2/
CFAF Million                             US$ Million
1980   1981  1982  1983   1984 1985  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Salaries Eor cantonnage                160    105      91    102    163  203  .533   .350  .303   .340   .543   .677
Ferries operating costs                 20      70    100    112    125  140   .067   .233  .333   .373   .417   .467
Mechanized units operating costs        -      296    412    545    786  978       -    .987 1.373  1.817  2.620  3.260
Traffic conttrol                        40      20     25     28      32   36  .133   .067  .083   .093   .107   .120
Furnitures, materials and fuel          50     19      88     99    110  124   .167   .063  .293   .330   .367   .413
0Ul
Highways equipment                      -      25      50     -       -    -       -    .083  .167       -       -       -
Building and equipment maintenance    -         30     35     40      45   50    -    .100  .117   .133   .150   .167
Studies and laboratory tests            -       10     30      34     38   43 |  -    .033  .100   .113   .127   .143
Miucellaneous                           -       -      29      -            -|  -          -   .097      -       -       -
1/
TOTAL          270   575    860    960   1300 1574  .900  1.916 2.866  3.199  4.331  5.247
less taxes                1/
NET TOTAL      220   467    699    780   1057 1279   .733  1.556 2.329  2.599  3.521  4.263
Annual increase
in reventues              112%   12%    12%      35% 21%
I/  For nine moniths only.  A full year would have some expenditures but 33% more revenues.
2/  US$1.00 = CFAF 300.



- 51 -
Table 3.9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Fourth Highway Project
IDA Credit Disbursement Profile
(US$ millions)
IDA Financing: $US 18.0 million
Half Year           Cumulative
FY 1983
First Half                                    0.600                0.600
Second Half                                   1.200                1.800
FY 1984
First Half                                    1.800                3.600
Second Half                                   2.500                6.100
FY 1985
First Half                                    3.500                9.600
Second Half                                   3.000               12.600
FY 1986
First Half                                    2.000               14.600
Second Half                                   1.500               16.100
FY 1987
First Half                                    1.200               17.300
Second Half                                   0.500               17.800
FY 1988
First Half                                    0.200               18.000
May 1982



- 52 -
Table 4.1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Typical Vehicle Operating Costs 1!
(CFAF/km in January 1981 prices)
Paved                      Unpaved
Vehicle Type             Good    Fair    Poor        Good    Fair    Poor
Pick up/small truck        62       74      93         75       85     116
Medium truck (7 ton)       72       88     109         90      102      145
Heavy truck (12 ton)    159       185      254        200      224     330
I/ Vehicle operating costs for specific sections of the project roads
are calculated endogenously by the HDMM and are available in the project
file.
February 1982



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic
1981                                1986                                1992
Light  Medium   Heavy               Light  Medium   Heavy              Light   Medium   Heavy
Road                      Vehicles  Trucks  Trucks  Total  Vehicles  Trucks  Trucks  Total Vehicles   Trucks  Trucks   Total
Bangui-Ymbi                   1530      420      130   2080       1990      545      165   2700      2800       760      240    3800
Bangui-M-Baiki                 235      180      175    590        316      240      224    780        423      320      277    1020
Bossembele-Bossongoa            13        3        4     20         28       13       24      65        38        18      29       85 ,
Sibut-Bambari                   39       11       10     60         63       19       43    125        100       31       51      182
Bambari-Bangassou                5        6        4     15          8       12        9      29        13        18       13      44
Sibut-Kaga Bondoro-Sido         25        3        5     33         40       14        9      63        54        18      12       84
February 1982
IH
(D



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Fourth Highway Project
Summary of Economic Analyses
Cost of Works (CFAF millionLA                          Economic Rates of Return             Value Added Benletits  Net Present Value           million
Net of Taxes Percent of Total Best Estimate 20% Cost Increase 20% Benefits Reduction   Reduced by 50%               Discounted at 12%  Discounted at 15%
Bangui North Exit                               993.30          15.4              18.6            13.5                    13.3                     -                   282.6               149.2
Bangui M'Baiki                                1,046.72          16.3             36.9             34.4                   33.2                      -                 2,843.7             2,291.9
Total Paved                           2,040.02          31.7              27.9            24.2                    23.5                     -                 3,126.3             2,441.1
Sibut-Bambari                                 1,191.00          16.4             33.4             30.2                   22.7                      -                 1,240.2               950.5
Bambari-Alindao                               399.63          (6.2)            16.6             12.5                   12.4                      -                  (173.8)             (117.4)
Alindao-Bangassou                             389.01          (6.0)            25.2             18.6                    17.7                                         (74.0)              (23.0)
Bambari-Alindao-Bangassou                       786.64          12.2             20.4             15.2                    13.6                     _                   247.1               140.4
Sibut-Ktaga Bondoro                           988.68         15.4              37.6             29.6                   27.9                      -                  (902.4)             (695.2)
Raga Bondoro-Sido                             492.03           7.7             33.2             26.1                   24.5                    20.9                 (361.80)            (272.1)
Sibut-laga Bondor-Sido                        1,480.71          23.1             35.1             28.1                    28.5                   31.4                1,264.2               967.3
Bossembele-Bossongoa                            524.37           8.2             23.9             19.0                    17.9                     -                   292.4               194.5
Bossongoa-Bedaoyo                               408.87           6.4             31.5             25.7                    24.5                   27.5                  336.2               248.0
Total Unpaved                         4,391.59          68.3              30.3            25.1                    22.6                   28.7                3.380.1             2,500.7
TOTAL PAVED & UNPAVED                         6,431.61          10.0             29.5             25.3                    23.7                   27.3                6,506.4             4,941.8
/1 January 1981 prices.



- 55 -
ANNEXI(a)
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
The Directorate of Studies and Documentation
Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
General
1.       The Directorate of Studies and Documentation (DED) is the
planning and coordinating unit of the Ministry of Transport and Civil
Aviation (MT). DED will:
- provide guidelines for transport planning and recommend
priorities for transport investments;
-- consolidate and integrate sub-sectoral plans;
-- assess transport project proposals and establish their relative
priorities;
-- coordinate transport sector studies;
-- initiate transport studies on an as needed basis; and
-- serve as liaison office for all transport modes.
Specific Tasks
A. Planning
-- determine national transport demand and supply;
-- define transport needs to serve agricultural and forest
development by regions and project major commodity flows;
-- define investment strategies to promote least cost transport
routes for major domestic and foreign market centers; and
-- prepare a detailed transport investment strategy for 1985-90.
B. Data Collection
-- establish an appropriate data collection system for road
transport including the truck fleet, traffic and commodity flows
on major routes, vehicle registrations by vehicle types,



- 56 -
ANNEXI(a)
Page 2 of 2
operating costs, average load factors, typical utilization and
tariffs for specific commodities;
-- establish a data base for the size and characteristics of
passenger fleet and traffic by regions on major routes;
-- collect data on river and air transport;
-- collect, on a systematic basis, data on import4s and consumption
of motor fuels and lubricants; and
-- assemble all the feasibility studies and related transport
planning/investments documents.
C. Special Studies
=- analyze road user charges and assess their adequacy;
=- develop a strategy to strengthen Inter-RCA's operations;
-- assess the medium and long-term investment needs of the domestic
civil aviation sector;
-- assess the magnitude of truck overloading;
f- formulate the administrative and enforcement mechanisms for
controlling axle loads; and
d- define the least cost transport alternatives for the Upper
Sangha region.
Staffing and Training
2.       DED is headed by an able Central African who is assisted by two
assistant directors. The transport economist/planner to be hired under
the proposed project will make a detailed assessment of the staffing
requirements of DED in consultation with the Secretary General of MT.
Among other things, the transport economist/planner will formulate and
implement a training program for DED and other MT staff.



-57-                               ANNB I(b)
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the
Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
General
1.        In addition to running its road, river and air transport wings,
the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (MT) coordinates the invest-
ments and operations of major autonomous public transport authorities
such as ACCF and the recently created Inter-RCA, the domestic airline.
Consultants have done various studies to improve operations of MT's autonomous
agencies and have developed investment plans for some of them. MT now needs
to make a start in improving sector operations and promoting rational
planning criteria. To this end, the proposed project would finance a
transport economist/planner for 26 months to strengthen MT.
Objectives and Scope
2.        Technical assistance would make a start in strengthening
sector management and to help keep MT abreast of sectoral developments.
The transport economist/planner will assist the Secretary Ceneral of MT
to formulate sector policy and provide training for upgrading the
technical skills and sector knowledge of senior staff. He will be
attached to the Directorate of Studies and Documentation (DED); its
Director will be the transport economist/planner's counterpart. The
economist/planner will help MT to implement the principal recommenda-
tions of the trucking industry operations study to be financed as a
part ot the proposed project. He will also help DED accomplish its
1983-85 work program. Specifically, the transport economist/planner will:
(i) help MT review the UNDP/ICAO feasibility study and the long-
term needs of domestic civil aviation;
(ii)  guide MT to develop an action plan to strengthen Inter-RCA's
operations, particularly its passenger and freight services;
(iii)  review the available studies on transport alternatives for
the Upper Sangha region and follow up cn additional work to
select the least cost transport alternative for the region's
development;
(iv) assess the magnitude of truck overloading in CAR and establish
its economic costs;



ANNEX I(b)
- 58 -                             Page 2 of 2
(v)  assist MT in organizing the administrative and enforcement
mechanism for controlling axle loads;
(vi)  in conjunction with MT's senior staff. develop an appropriate
methodology for establishing and comparing the economic costs
of road, river and air transport for CAR's imports and exports
and define the least cost route and mode;
(vii)  assess the 1985-90 investment and recurrent needs of the
transport sector with particular emphasis on overland access
to sea ports and rank project priorities based on costs and
benefits;
(viii)  establish a transport statistics and documents center and
train DED personnel to update it on a continuous basis; and
(ix)  devise and implement in Bangui an appropriate training course
in transport planning for senior MT staff.
Upon the authorization of the Secretary General of MT, the transport
economist/planner will advise ACCF, Inter-RCA and MTP on issues
concerning the costs and pricing of transport services.
Reporting
3.        The transport economist/planner will submit the following reports
in French to MT (through the Secretary General) and IDA:
(i) a detailed work program for 1983 and outline work program for
1984 and 1985, three months after arrival in Bangui;
(ii)  a progress report every six months;
(iii)  when requested by the Government, specific reports on designated
tasks in para. 2 above not later than one month after their completion
for review and comment; and
(iv)  a draft final report two months prior to completion of the
technical assistance and a final report upon receipt of the
Government's comments.



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Trucking Industry Operations
1.       An efficient domestic transport system is particularly important
to the economy of landlocked CAR. The quality of the road network, the
highest priority links of which will have been rehabilitated by 1984, and
the operational efficiency of the national trucking industry are
important parts of the domestic transport system. However, up to now,
attempts to organize, plan and coordinate the transport industry
operations have not produced good results. The National Cargo Office
(ONAF), a state-owned company under which the transport industry had been
organized, performed poorly and has recently been abolished. The
Government, therefore, intends to investigate alternative regulatory
environments and administrative frameworks within which the transport
industry would be organized and the public and private interest would be
equitably reflected
2.       Consultants would assess the causes of the industry's poor
performance in the past; recommend how it should be reorganized; and
recommend short-term actions which the Government would take to relieve
the immediate shortcomings.
Objectives
3.       The objectives of the study are to:
(a)   establish the present role of the public and private
trucking industry and its performance;
(b)   evaluate alternative organizational frameworks and
regulatory mechanisms and recommend the most appropriate
structure to reflect the future developments;
(c)   formulate long-term development strategies to improve the
industry's performance and productivity; and
(d)   develop a short-term action program to relieve the
industry's immediate needs.
Scope
4.       The study will include the existing capacity and performance of
the national trucking industry and will cover all of its operational and
technical aspects. In particular, the study will evaluate:



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
(a)   staffing, personnel and available skills;
(b)   costs, tariffs and subsidies;
(c)   efficiency, productivity and production data;
(d)   own accont haulage and public transport;
(e)   fleet composition, condition and its adaptability;
(f)   technical and operational capacity;
(g)   fleet maintenance, workshop capacity and spare parts
availability;
(h)   training needs.
5.       Consultants will take into consideration available economic
development plans, international road traffic, the current state of the
network and its proposed rehabilitation in establishing future
requirements. Consultants will also establish the scope of freight and
passenger transport to remote areas of the country.
6.       The consultants  recommendations for the organization and
improvements for the national trucking industry will incorporate the
needs for software and hardware assistance.
Time Schedule
7.       It is expected that 12 man-weeks would be sufficient to
accomplish the work outlined above. Out of these 12 man-weeks, 6 man-
weeks could be spent in CAR while the other 6 man-weeks would be devoted
to report writing at the consultants home office.



- 61 -
ANNEX III (a)
Page 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to DGTP
Objectives
1.       The objectives of the technical assistance needed for imple-
mentation of the project are:
(a)   to improve the organizational structure or Directorates of
Road Maintenance and of Equipment Maintenance; and
(b)   to improve DGTP's efficiency in road maintenance and
rehabilitation works and to implement a training program
for road maintenance personnel and to promote small scale
contractors in rural areas.
Team Composition
2.       The composition of the technical assistance team assigned to
DGTP and length of assignments for each member of the team are:
Man-months
(a)   Technical Assistance to DER
I senior highway engineer to be
Chief of Mission,                                      37
1 highway technician experienced in
gravel road works                                      23
1 chief mechanic                                         23
- short-term specialists in accounting,
maintenance works, equipment maintenance
or organization                                         16
Subtotal                                         99
(b)   Technical Assistance to DM
1 mechanical engineer, experienced in fleet
maintenance management, to act as counterpart
to the Director of DM                                  33
1 chief mechanic, experienced in highway
equipment repairs and machine tools                    30
- short-term mechanics, for specialized repairs          30
- short-term specialist in cost accounting                10
Subtotal                                        103



- 62 -
ANNEX III (a)
Page 2
(c)   Training Program
(i) Road maintenance
1 highway engineer with expertise in
training to act as counterpart
to Director of CFPTP                           28
1 mechanic experienced in training               26
1 highway training expert                        24
- short-term training experts                     6
Subtotal                                         84
(ii) Promotion of petty contractors in rural areas
1 consultant for feasibility study                4
1 highway expert for implementation              28
Subtotal                                         32
Total Man-months                318
Qualifications
3.       Each expert would be fluent in spoken and written French and
have extensive training experience in his field of assignment. Addi-
tionally experts will have work experience in a developing country.
4.       Specific qualifications and functions of the team members would
be:
5.       Mission Chief:  Would be a highway engineer experienced in
organization of administrative and technical services, financial
management, cost accounting, road construction and maintenance as well as
operation and maintenance of road equipment. Assigned to DEPC, his
duties will include:
(a)   control and coordination of all mission activities and
liaison with DGTP officials; and
(b)   coordination of the reorganization of DER and DM and
implementation of the reorganization.
6.       Highway Technician:  Experienced in road rehabilitation, yard
organization and management and on-the-job training. Assigned to the
maintenance districts, his duties include:
(a)   setting-up and implementing the operations of the
mechanized gravel road rehabilitation and maintenance; and
(b)   providing on-the-job training to heads of the maintenance
districts (East and West).



- 63 -
ANNEX III (a)
Page 3
7.       Chief Mechanic:  Experienced in field repairs and maintenance of
road construction equipment. Assigned to the maintenance districts, his
duties include:
(a)   supervision, repair and maintenance of equipment; and
(b)   on-the-job training for maintenance district  heads,
mechanics and equipment operators.
8.       Consultants (short-term):  Experienced engineers or other
experts with broad experience in the implementation of major road
construction projects in Africa. Assigned to DEPC, their duties would
include:
(a)   evaluation and monitoring of the progress in
reorganization and helping DM to discharge its increased
responsibilities; and
(b)   assistance to the DM staff.
9.       Mechanical Engineer:  Having at least five years of experience
in management of a public works equipment division in Africa. Would be a
specialist in workshop's organization and use of heavy equipment.
Assigned to DM, he will act as counterpart to DM Director. Duties will
include:
(a)   assistance to the DM to overhaul existing equipment and
maintain other equipment; and
(b)   coordination and control of the reorganised DM activities
of the experts involved in this part of the program.
10.      Chief Mechanic:  With at least five years of experience in
equipment maintenance and workshop management. He will be assigned to DM
as adviser to workshop heads for equipment maintenance and machine tools.
11.      Mechanic:  With at least five years of experience in:
(a)   workshop organization and machine-tool operations;
(b)   motor and drive train repairs; and
(c)   repair and maintenance of hydraulic systems.
12.      Cost Accountant:  Experienced in analytical accountancy, cost
analysis, spare parts and inventory management. Would have good
experience in organization of administrative services. He will be
assigned to DM as adviser to the Chief of Accounting Services.
13.      Highway Engineer:  Specialized in personnel training, with
experience in road construction and maintenance as well as operation and
maintenance of road equipment. Would have at least five years training
experience in a highway agency in a developing country plus experience in
construction and maintenance as well as budgeting cost accounting,



- 64 -
ANNEX III (a)
Page 4
financial management, man-power planning and personnel management. He
will be assigned to CFPTP in Bangui as counterpart to the Director of
CFPTP. His duties will include:
(a)   preparation, setting-up and follow through of the training
program; and
(b)   supervision and coordination of all the training
activities.
14.      Mechanic:  Specialized in training with at least five years of
experience in operation and maintenance of road construction and
maintenance equipment. Assigned to CFPTP in Bangui, he will be in charge
of the training program for DM Staff and equipment operators.
15.      Highway Training Expert:  Specialized in training with at least
five years of experience in (a) gravel road construction and maintenance;
(b) organization and supervision of the works; (c) analytical accounting;
and (d) utilization of road equipment. Assigned to CFPTP in Bangui, he
will be in charge of handling the training component aimed at road
maintenance personnel.
16.      Consultants (training):  Highly experienced consultants to be
assigned to CFPTP for short, specialized missions. Duties will include:
(a)   assistance to the CFPTP trainers for improving training
methods and utilization of equipment; and
(b)   specialized and motivation training aimed at DER and DM
staff development
17.      Consultant for Assessing Feasibility of Promoting Petty
Contractors in Rural Areas: Engineer with at least ten years of
experience in maintaining gravel roads and experienced in financial and
personnel management. The consultant will assess the feasibility of the
pilot scheme to promote petty contractors in the rural areas.
18.      Highway Training Expert:  Road maintenance with at least five
years of experience in labor intensive road construction and maintenance
plus training experience in African countries to implement the pilot
scheme to promote petty contractors. He will be assigned to DER. His
duties will include:
(a)   on-the-job training of petty contractors and laborers;
(b)   selection and evaluation of petty contractors;
(c)   monitoring and administration of the pilot scheme; and
(d)   supervision of works performed by petty contractors.



- 65 -
ANNEX III (b)
Page 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consultant Services for Supervision of
Road Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Works
Objectives
1.       Consultants services are needed for:
(a)   supervising the road rehabilitation and reconstruction to
be carried out by contractors; and,
(b)   training national inspectors of works in managing road
works contracts.
Team Composition
2.       Seven consultants will be assigned to DGTP to supervise the
works under the project:
Man-months
2 paved road engineer consultants specialized in
paved road rehabilitation and reconstruction                  26
5 technicians experienced in gravel roads rehabilitation    91
Total                                           117
Qualifications
3.       Each consultant should have: fluency in spoken and written
French, training experience in relevant fields; and work experience in a
developing country.
4.       Paved Road Engineering Consultants: Experienced in paved road
construction and maintenance, with good knowledge of geotechnics and
materials control. Consultants would have site experience and would
preferably have directed important paved road construction projects.
Duties include:
(a)   supervision of the contracted works for the resealing of
the Bangui-M'Baiki Road (102 km-10 mm) and the
reconstruction of the Bangui-Ymbi Road (6.5 km-12 mm); and
(b)   on-the-job training of counterpart national inspectors of
works to enable them to progressively take over
supervision responsibilities.
5.       Gravel Road Rehabilitation Consultants:  With at least five
years experience in gravel roads construction and rehabilitation. Should
have management experience with mechanized regravelling brigades (at
least two years), have a good knowledge geotechnics gravel road materials



- 66 -
ANNEX III (b)
Page 2
control and be able to handle contract documents (terms of reference,
quality and quantity control). Duties will include:
(a)   supervision of gravel roads rehabilitation to be executed
by contractors; and
(b)   on-the-job training of counterpart, the national
inspectors of works to enable them to progressively take
over the supervision responsibilties.
Schedule
6.       Each consultant would report for duty within three months after
notification by the Government. Consultants will begin full-time assign-
ments one month before the start-up of the works by contractors and end
one month after completion of the works.



- 67                                AN=  IV
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Preparation for Promoting Road Maintenance through
Petty Contractors in Rural Areas
Outline Terms of Reference
General
1.        The construction industry in CAR is geared up for capital intensive
building techniques. Small contractors capable of executing selected road
maintenance works through intensive labor inputs have not emerged partly
because road maintenance was neglected during the last decade. On the other
hand maintenance of small sections of roads in remote areas are difficult
to execute through DGTP's force account because of the substantial volumes
of planned works which take priority and the logistic difficulties of
transporting labor gangs over large distances at short notice. A need
exists to develop local contractors capable of complementing DGTP's evolving
road maintenance capacity.
2.        The preparation phase of this project component includes:
(i) a feasibility study to develop petty contractors in rural areas; and (ii)
a practical training program to prepare the petty contractors for executing
routine road maintenance. The Road Fund would finance the works to be
accomplished by the petty contractors.
Scope and Objectives
3.        The study will focus on unpaved maintenance works which can
be executed effectively through available labor and simple hand tools.
Consultants will:
(i) identify criteria for selecting candidate contractors;
(ii) define units and volume of road maintenance works which can
be contracted on specific road sections;
(iii) formulate reporting and documentation standards together
with models of periodic reports to be submitted by the
contractors;
(iv) devise a methodology for assessing the performance of contrac-
tors;
(v) determine criteria for assessing the capacity of the contractors;
and
(vi) develop and implement a practical training program to prepare
selected petty contractors for executing routine maintenance
on contract to DGTP.



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Schedule
4.        The study will require about four man-months to complete.
Consultants will provide services of road maintenance, organization and
accounting experts in the field. Consultants will prepare a feasibility
study within one month after arrival in CAR. The training will be imple-
mented over the remaining three months. The report and the initial training
for petty contractQ&s are expected to be completed by December 1982.  The
implementation of road maintenance by petty contractors would begin around
the first quarter of 1983 and last about 28 months.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND CITY PLANNING
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF PUBLIC WORKS
Director General             ]
Deputy Director General
Directorate of Road                      Directorate of Equipment                       Directorate of Studies                      Personnel Management
Maintenance                                 Maintenance                         Pogramnning and Supervision                         and Accounting
I.I                                                .   I_                                                                             IT
E                                                                                                          16~V ~E o  u0
-a)                                                                                                      cxl-~~~~D 
c                                                         m                            0                3 JC a
4)      s                                                          > a)  )C0a
a)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
World Bank -C23602



I



-                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15897R
l =   /   1,B                                  20                                          >                   24                                                             FFPRUARY ;t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBRAY 92
CEN7RAL AFRICAN  REPUBLIC                                                                                                         w. f                                                                   4 ._ 
FOURTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                              TR!   ,BLF4
ROAD  NETWORK                                                                                                  -          -t                                                                   A   F R  I I{C  A
\                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~T. Sah .n1 N'Djane              l     -- 
/         5      tBEBOIJRA  ,v'/         1 1A      UANnAGO              / 
+,,@   J   g     \             FOSSANSOt    ---t)FOU~~          ~    ~~~~CA  KO                                    AYALINGA                                           
- X l E      L         V               /;        55l4  -       =        S         X            X0                    X                                                                   LWQ~~~~~~~~~KO
fii   4    ~~~~~~~~~ <    ,_. rx,w,,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  :1*                                                                                                       <                  S~~~~~~
\   X J   , ---   ._   MONGOUMBA -                                                                                                    SFCONDAHY HOADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA 
P   \   NOLY   -~~~ -/  -*                   *~ - ~~ 1                                                                                                                 L CAL GP F E EDE R ROAOSLl
*\ SAIO;)  i         !                              Z    A    /   R    E                       $                                +      INTERNA110NAL n nPORT~~~~~~BAN
I!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA ./  O'S_._. IN,FTFDNA UONDER PR`ES~  RJC
+~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVC PRj  Ry 0   <}                                         2      ?     7      R?  AO.S
i                          jr  a hsbe  lealdbYthe/tj 22rC TadLWAKtlm5(S8 MdhrI                                                                       OTE PI tMArYE ROD
')  i/| To 8rpz2milr S   20  bounde s sho d   tthl  thPe d9a  I@P yS d.'s terrdo  ora/2r eljdol  mS] 1/O24H2S    SA) 
NC                                                                                                                                                             LOCA ;H FEEDER ROADSI_



