Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USL ONLY
C:3Z 7 61 -7LI    v            ,7
Report No. 8070-GUB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their officlia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1989)
Currency Unit           G Peso
US$1.0            =    G Pesos 2,600
Pesos 1 Million        US$385
US$1.0            =    SDR 1.27572
SDR1.0                 US$ 0.78387
MEASURES
lkm       =    0.62 sq mc
lm             1.09 yd
lsq km    =    0.38 sq. mile
lha       =    2.47 acres
it        =    2.2 lbs
11        =    0.26 gal
ABBREVIATIONS AND A.CRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
ASTRA          Association of Private Transporters
BNG            National Bank of Guinea Bissau
CENFA          Center for Administration Training
CENFI          Center for Industrial Training
DGEP           General Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DGHU           General Directorate of Housing and Urban Affairs
DGMP           General Directorate of Marine
DGTT           General Directorate of Transport
DICOL          National Petroleum Company
EAGB           Electricity and Water Company
EAS            Europe Aero Service
EDF            European Development Fund
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAC            French Cooperation Fund
FIRR           Financial Internal Rate of Return
GEP/OP          Studies and Planning Office/Public Works
GEP/T          Studies and Planning Office/Transport
GUINAVE        State-owned Naval Repair Company
HDM            Highway Design and Maintenance Model
HRPM           Human Resource Management and Planning Section
IDB            Islamic Development Bank
JAPG           Port Authority
KF             Kuwait Fund
LEGUI          Engineering Laboratory
LNEC           Portuguese National Laboratory of Civil Engineering
MES            Ministry of Social Infrastructure
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MP             Ministry of Plan
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Export Countries
PCU            Project Coordination Unit in MES
RF             Road Fund
RODOFLUVIAL    Public Trucking and River Transport Company
SET            State Secretariat of Transport
SF             Saud4 Fund
SILO DIATA     Public Bus Company
SIRP           Social and Infrastructure Relief Project
TAGB           National Airline Company
TC             Public (State-owned) transport company
TCU            Transport Coordination Unit in SET
TO             Technical Office 4n MES
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNCDF          United Nations Capital Development Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF GUINE. BISSAU
INFRAS9tUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJEC. SUMMARY ..................         ...................   i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ....         ........   1
II.  THE INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS ................................            1
A.  The Infrastructure System .............................            1
B.  Transport and Urban Administration ....          ................  2
C.  Road Infrastructure ...................................            4
D.  Road Transport ........................................            4
E.  River Infrastructure and Services .....          ................  5
F.  Maritime Ports and Shipping ...........................            6
G.  Airports and Civ.l Aviation ...........................           6
H.  The Urban Setting .....................................            7
I.  Private Sector Participation ..........................            8
J.  Manpower and Training .................................            9
K.  Sector Planning, Accounting and Cost Recovery .... .....    10
L.  Sector Issues and Strategy ............................           13
M.  Bank Group Involvement in the Infrastructure Sectors ..           13
III. THE PROJECT ...............................................           15
A.  Project Background and Objectives .....          ................    15
B.  Project Description ...................................           15
C.  Institutional Support .................................           17
D.  Transport Companies ...................................           18
E.  Road Infrastructure ...................................           19
F.  Urban Program .........................................           19
G.  Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance .20
H.  Project Cost Estimates and Financing ...........     .......      20
I.  Implementation and Present Status of the Project                  23
J. Procurement .23
K. Disbursements .24
L. Reporting and Auditing .26
M. Environmental Impact .26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Guinea-Bissau in November 1988. The appraisal team consisted of Messrs.
Peter Morris (Mission Leader, Principal Transport Engineer), Cesar Queiroz
(Sr. Highway Engineer), Jorge Rebelo (Sr. Transport Planner), Felix Jakob
(Sr. Urban Planner), Stephen Berkman (Training Specialist), Jose Aleluia
(Financial Analyst, Consultant) and Lubomir Dunin (Urban Planner,
Consultant), Mmes. Anita Artaza and Judith Silvera (Operations
Assistants), M.L. Moreira and Hanni Najar (Staff Assistants), in
particular, assisted in preparing the report.
1 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not ot.serwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION          ......................................    27
A.    RODOFLUVIAL  ...........................................  27
B.  SILO DATA .............................................    29
C. JAPG .31
D.  TAGB ....... .....................................    33
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .34
A. Economic Returns .34
B. Project Risks .35
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED ANT) RECOMMENDATION    .       .36
AZNEXES
2-.  Transport Policy - Summary of Key Principles
2-2 Status of the Road Network in 1987
2-3 JAPG: Port of Bissau Traffic in 1986 and 1987
2-4 1990-92 Infrastructure Sectors Investment Program
2-5 Road Tolls, Structure of Fuel Prices, Evolution of
the Fleet, Annual Registration of Vehicles, Annual
Fuel Consumption, Road Fund Administration Costs and
Road F-md Revenues (1989-1993)
3-1 Organizational Charts: MES Coordination of the Project; PCU
3-2 Assistance to MES' Engineering Laboratory (LEGUT)
3-3 Budget Estimates fot Training
3-4 Road Infrastructure Program
3-5 Pilot Feeder Roads Program
3-6 Urban Program
3-7 Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3-8 Outline of Participation Agreements with TCs
3-9 Implementation Schedule
3-10 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3-11 Survey for Resettlement of Occupants on Housing Plots
5-1 Economic Evaluation of the Road Infrastructure Program
5-2 Economic Rate of Return of the Overall Investment Package
6-1 Documents in Project File
MAP: IBRD 21464



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHAEILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The Republic of Guinea Bissau
Beneficiaries:                 Ministry of Social Infrastructure (MES);
State Secretariat of Transport (SET);
Municipality of Bissau.
Implementing Agency:           MES
Credit Amount:                  SDR 18.5 million (US$23.6 million
equivalent).
Credit Terms:                   Standard, with 40 years maturity.
ProJect Description:            The project covers a five-year program to
support (a) efforts of the Ministry of
Social Infrastructure and its State
Secretariat of Transport to strengthen
planning and management of transport and
urban projects, monitor performance of
public transport companies, and manage
training programs and sector studies; (b)
assistance to improve performance of the
public transport companies, including
private participation in the companies;
(c) road infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance, including improvement of feeder
roads particularly in the South, and
training of domestic contractors in labor-
based road works; and (d) urban programs
including solid waste collection in Bissau,
development of urban services, and sites and
services for housing plots in Bissau and
other centers.



- ii -
Proiect Benefits and Risks:   The project would provide the following
benefits: (a) in the transport sector -
consolidate efforts to escablish sound and
efficient infrastructure maintenance
capacity, remove bottlenecks to increasing
agricultural production, especially in the
South, improve the efficiency and cost
effectizeness of public trausport companies
and encourage greater private sector
participation in transportation; (b) in the
urban sector - improve municipal services in
Bissau and other centers, expand solid waste
collection in Bissau to the suburbs, and
expand on the sites and services operation,
initiated under the Social and
Infrastructure Relief Project, in order to
more fully address the need for low cost
housing; and (c) implement a comprehensive
training program for managers, and skilled
and semi-skilled personnel, in both the
private and public sectors which are needed
for Guinea Bissau to manage and operate the
infrastructure sectors.
The main risks are: (a) non-compliance with
the transport policy; (b) Government
reluctance to facilitate private sector
participation in works and transportation;
and (c) delays in implementation due to
constraints in the absorptive capacity of
MES. The Government, however, has given its
commitment to the implementation of the
transport policy and has agreed to measures
to select and fund infrastructure projects
with emphasis on rehabilitation and
maintenance programs. Furthermore, detailed
action plans will be prepared for private
participation in each of the public
transport companies.  The establishment of a
Project Coordination Unit in MES and a
Transport Coordination Unit in SET will
ensure that the project is well managed and
that performance of public transport
companies are constantly monitored.
Economic Rate of                The estimated overall ERR for the project,
Return (ERR):                  based on quantifiable benefits covering
about 72 percent of overall cost, is about
48 percent.
Map:                            IBRD No. 21464



- iii -
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
Estimated Costs:                     Local           Foreign           Total
------------- US$ thousand ----------
A.   Institutional Support              658.6          6,336.4         6,995.0
B.   Transport Companies                 78.6          2,792.4         2,871.0
C.   Road Infrastructure Program   2,555.6            13,393.2        15,948.8
D.   Urbar. Program                     447.8          1,512.2         1,960.0
E.   Road Maintenance Operations   3,176.0             4,764.0         7,910.0
Base Cost
(December 1989)                6,916.6         28,798.2        35,714.8
Physical Contingencies            301.0          1,672.2         1,973.2
Price Contingencies             1,784.1          3,823.5         5,607.6
Total Project Cost 1/           9,001.7         34,293.9        43,295.6
Financing Plan: 2/                   Local           Foreign           Total
------------- US$ million ----------
IDA                               2.5              21.1           23.6
Co-financiers                     1.7              13.2           14.3
Government                        4.8                -              4.8
Total             9.0              34.3           43.3
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year:    FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual               3.5    5.3      5.3    4.0    3.0    1.8    0.7
Cumulative           3.5    8.8    14.1   18.1   21.1   22.9   23.6
1/ Project items are exempt from all taxes and duties except for a small
amount from local contracts for civil and building works.
2/ Amounts are rounded.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE I-OR IDA INVOLVEHENT
.L.01     The Gevernment of Guinea Bissau has requested IDA's assistance in
financing part of its five-year (1990-94) infrastructure rehabilitation
program.   The project will support the efforts of the Ministry of Social
Infrastructure (MES) and its State Secretariat of Transport (SET) in (a)
carrying out road rehabilitation and maintenance, and feeder road
improvements in priority agricultural areas, (b) developing rational programs
for servicing plots for low-cost housing, (c) improving municipal services
in Bissau, and (d) assisting public transport companies in becoming
financially  viable  concerns.    In  particular,  the  project  supports  a
comprehensive institutional building and training effort in the transport and
urban sectors, as well as assistance to domestic contractors to enable ther
participation in labor-based road maintenance activities and feeder road
works.
1.02      IDA's strategy in the transport sector has focused on modernizing
the port of Bissau, completing the basic network of river ports and ramps,
as well as developing the country's road maintenance capability.  Also, a
Social and Infrastructure Relief Project (SIRP), (Cr. 2020-GUB approved in
May 1989), will tackle the immediate needs for repairing infrastructure in
urban areas using labor available from civil service retrenchment, and
addressing the housing shortage in Bissau, as well as education and health
components. Emphasis has been given to building up institutional capacity
to manage the transport infrastructure despite an acute shortage of skilled
personnel.   IDA's support of the project is crucial to consolidate these
initiatives and to assist MES/SET in developing sustainable transport and
infrastructure  management  systems,  and  to  institute  sound  planning
procedures, as well as to increase participation of the private sector in
road works and transportation. Training of professionals, accountants and
technical personnel will be intensified under the project to provide
sufficient expertise to manage and operate the transport modes and urban
infrastructure. But the task will take many more years for Guineans to reach
adequate and sustainable levels of proficiency. Furthermore, IDA's support
of the project will intensify the policy dialogue on road maintenance
financing, municipal revenues, transportation regulations and tariffs, and
investment planning for the transport and urban sectors and will (a) enable
more rational use of scarce local funds, (b) improve the cost effecti'seness
of urban and transport services, and (c) help enlist the support of
international financing agencies towards high priority sector projects.
II. THE INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS
A. The Infrastructure System
2.01      Guinea Bissau, with a land area of 36,125 sq km, including some
30 islands forming the Bijagos archipelago, is a small country on the West
African Coast. It is surrounded by Senegal on the North, Guinea (Conakry)
on the East and South, and the Atlantic Ocean on the West. With an estimated



-2-
GNP per capita of US$160, the country is among the poorest nations in the
world.  The econc-., is characterized by a large traditional rural sector,
producing primarily for self-consumption, that accounts for about 90 percent
of employment and half of total exports, of which 70 percent are cashew
products.   Rice is the main food crop and production has increased from
85,000 tons in 1983 to about 140,000 tons in 1987.
2.02      The population living in Guinea-Bissau's centers of 5,000 and more
it4habitants is currently estimated at some 220,000, or about 23 percent of
the country's total population of around 950,000. About 70 percent of this
urban population and, thus, almost one-sixth of the total population is
concentrated in Bissau, the capital city, which has an estimated 150,000
inhabitants.   Two or three secondary centers have populations of around
20,000, and only four or five other towns have more than 5,000 inhabitants.
The existing urban infrastructure, in particular streets, water supply and
drainage networks, is deteriorating because of an almost total lack of
maintenance. Conditions in Bissau have become particLlarly critical because
most neighborhoods outside the downtown area lack even basic infrastructure
and, in m..iy cases, are inaccessible to motor vehicles.
2.03      Guinea-Bissau's transport infrastructure comprises 2,636 km of
roads; a deep water port, 27 small coastal and river ports; an international
airport and 17 domestic aerodromes. The country has no railway. Road and
river transport take an equal share of the domestic freight traffic; air
transport is negligible.   State-owned (public) transport companies  (TCs)
comprise Transportes Aereos da Guine-Bissau (TAGB), the natioral airline
which handles normally about 25 percent of the international passenger
traffic and all domestic traffic, although it remained grounded from mid-1986
to the end of 1987 for lack of spare parts; RODOFLUVIAL which took over road
and river freight transport from the two previously exisiting public trading
companies (ARMAZENS DO POVO and SOCOMIN) and passenger river transport from
the national shipping agency (GUINEHAR); and SILO DIATA, the state-owned bus
company which was reorganized in 1985, but has few buses running because of
inadequate workshop equipment and spare part shortages. Despite the presence
of these TCs, the private sector has a significant share of the overall
mprket, particulariy in road passenger and freight transport. The transport
system, with related statistics on infrastructure, vehicles, traffic and
pricing, has been described in detail in a Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM,
Report No. 7076-GUB) which was discussed with the Government iI' January 1987.
Subsequently, the Government has prepared a Transport Policy which focuses
on the country's main transport problems and policy issues, and presents a
strategy for tackling them over the short and medium term. Tnis strategy is
supported by the project (paras 2.35 and 2.36).   During negotiations the
Government confirmed its intention to implement the Transport Policy. Annex
2-1 summarizes key principles of the Transport Policy.
B. Transport and Urban Administration
2.04      At the institutional level, management capability in the transport
and urban sectors remains weak; most entities aze faced with over-staffing
at lower skill levels, low salary scales, and consequently poor discipline.
Lack of skilled personnel for infrastructure and transport operations and
maintenance is pervasive in government, transport companies and the private



-3.
sector. Furthermore, material resources remain a scarce commodity and
transport means are inadequate.
2.05      The MES is responsible for transport and infrastructure planning
and policy formulation.   The internal organization and procedures of the
Ministry have been redefined, but are not yet fully implemented, mainly
because of a shortage of middle-to-senior level staff with adequate
experience. Its General Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DGEP) deals with
all road-related matters and comprises directorates of Road Maintenance,
Personnel and Finance, Equipment, and three provincial units, of which only
one is presently operational.   DGEP which executes road works under the
Second Roads Project, (Cr. 1473-GUB, approved in May 1984), has managed to
operate satisfactorily, mainly because of the considerable technical
assistance at various levels. The General Directorate of Housing and Urban
Affairs (DGHU) has four directorates: Urban Planning, Housing, Surveying and
Construction; virtually all these departments are only embryonic and have,
aside from the directors, only few other professional staff.  LEGUI, the
soils and materials laboratory under MES was created in 1985, but is still
not equipped to undertake normal soils and materials testing, or research
studies. The General Secretary of MES, who has the responsibility to prepare
and defend the budget allocations of the Ministry, and to delegate credits
to th' various technical directorates, does not have the organization and
staff  to be  effective.    The Road Fund  (RF)  under MES has  adequate
administrative capability; part of the gasoline consumption taxes, duties and
tolls are used exclusively for funding road works and maintenance (para
2.30).
2.06      The SET under MES is responsible for coordinating transport plans
which may be elaborated at MES or at other ministries, particularly those in
charge of agriculture and industry where project viability is greatly
affected by transport constraints. SET also supervises the TCs. Due to the
limited number of professionals in SE"'s staff (basically 2 jurists and one
accountant), none of these important functions have been performed
effectively in the past, although technical assistance under the Second Roads
and during preparation of the project, is strengthening the planning function
and establishing clearer relationships between SET and the various TCs
reporting to it. SET's sector-wide functions in investment planning, policy
formulation, transport regulations and monitoring of TCs will be strengthened
under the project through provision of technical assistance, while formal
training of nationals takes place (para 3.05).
2.07      The Bissau Municipality is responsible for management of urban
services such as street and drainage maintenance and solid waste collection,
as well as upkeep of markets, slaughterhouses, parks and cemeteries. Primary
roads within urban areas are maintained by DGEP.  Water and electricity
supply is managed by EAGB, a state company under the Ministry of Natural
Resources. The municipality is also responsible for land tenure management
and the corresponding collection of property taxes and land lease fees.
While these should, in principle, provide a significant share of the
municipal resources, their actual contribution has remained scant, mainly
because of inadequate tariff structures, deficient recording and inefficient
collection.  Measures to update the property tax and land lease records,
adjust the tariffs, and improve the performance of the revenue collection
services would be initiated under the project (para 3.13).



-4-
C.   Road Infrastructure
2.08      According to a survey carried out in 1987, the 2636 km road network
c.nprises 544 km of paved, 288 km of laterite gravel and 1804 km of earth
roads. Only about 15 percent of the road network is in good condition, and
68 percent is classified as poor.  The density of about 70 km of road per
1,000 sq km is above the regional average and, given the alternate
opportunities offered by river transport, is adequate for the country's
needs. Three major ro-d upgrading projects are included in the Government's
three-year investment program (1990-92) with financing from EDF, AfDB and
Arab Funds, as well as construction cf four bridges (EDF).  Few new roads
should be built in the near future, and further road upgrading to paved
standards should be the exception because of the generally low traffic
volumes; only 73 km of road have traffic greater than 250 vehicles per day
(vpd).   Feeder roads,  however,  need improving to support agricultural
development, especially in the southern part of the country which has been
identified as an important development area. Improvements to feeder roads
and tracks in the South and the links to river transport, which provide
economical evacuation of agricultural products, will be included under the
project (para 3.11).
2.09      The Second Roads project has started to address constraints to
improving the condition of the road network. An economically sound feasible
road rehabilitation and maintenance program has been prepared, and will be
supported under the project together with strengthening of DGEP through
technical assistance, to manage increased contracting of road maintenance,
rehabilitation -nd improvement works which presently are mainly unuertaken
by force account. The objective of the program will be, by 1998, to bring
nearly all paved and laterite gravel roads and about one fourth of the earth
roads to good cordition, and to provide adequate resources to maintain the
network (para 3.10). Annex 2-2 provides statistics on the road network.
D.   Road Transport
2.10      The total number of vehicles in circulation in Guinea Bissau in
1987 was about 5000, including 3000 private automobiles, 300 taxicabs, 5
buses and 1700 trucks of at least 3.5 tons.  More than 85 percent of the
fleet is registered in Bissau and its current condition is fair to bad.
RODOFLUVIAL is the dominant road operator with 50 percent of the total
freight market. The truck fleet of the national trading company (ARMAZENS
DO POVO) accounts for about 10 percent of the market and the remaining 40
percent goes to a mix of private transporters and other public enterprises
doing own account transport, such as SOCOTRAM in timber production and trade.
Private operators are not always licensed and are known to charge more than
public enterprises for Lheir services, a fact only explained by the scarcity
of truck operators in Guinea Bissau. RODOFLUVIAL provides reliable services
although its vehicles are aging; replacement vehicles will be provided under
the project (para 3.09).
2.11      The road transport industry faces many problems:   (a) poor road
conditions; (b) weak financial performance of TCs; (c) mournting cost of
vehicles and spare parts as the G Peso exchange rate continues to



- 5 -
deteriorate; (d) weak organization of freight transport, which operates
without sufficient coordination in freight collection and distribution; (e)
an undercapitalized and ill-equipped vehicle repair industry; (f) inadequate
trainirg programs for mechanics, drivers and management; (g) lax enforcement
of road traffic safety rules and regulations, resulting in high accident
rates; (h) lack of development of intermediate forms of transport, such as
bicycles  and  other non-votorized  transport  means;  and  (i)  inadequate
statistics regarding the avdilable capacity, utilization, volume of freight,
earnings, profitability, import requirements, etc., which are needed for
planning purposes.
2.12      The road transport problems are slowly being resolved with the
recovery of Guinea-Bissau's economy and the availability of adequate foreign
exchange.  The project should make a modest, but significant contribution
through training programs and by assisting SET to pursue a market-oriented
approach to the sub-sector (para 3.05).
2.13      There are serious problems in the road passenger market and part
of the transport demand is not satisfied, as indicated by the number of
people who walk very long distances.   Public transportation in Bissau is
provided by SILO DIATA, private taxis, van  and converted pick-ups, and
enterprises which organize own account transpo  . Still, 90 percent of urban
trips are on foot (up to 15 kms) and thif affects the productivity of
personnel; delays are common and absenteeism reaches 45 percent in some
enterprises.  SILO DIATA provides scheduled services along four lines from
4 to 15 km long. At the end of 1988, only 9 buses of a 25 vehicle fleet were
operational.   Four buses were operating in Bissau, four in the regional
subsidiaries (Bafata, Canchungo and Buba), and one in international services
to Dakar.   SILO DIATA provides about five percent of intercity passenger
transport, carrying some 350,000 people in 1986. Recently, there has beern
an increase in privately-operated minibuses which provide an acceptable
intercity service, connecting Bissau to the most important urban centers.
The project will assist SILO DIATA through SET in   ;  management and
operations, as well as facilitate arrangements for privat- ;ector involvement
in the compan, (para 3.09).
E. River Infrastructure and Services
2.1S      The four river ports recently constructed under Cr. 1392-GUB will
provide adequate capacity, exceeding 100,000 tons per year, in the
foreseeable future for evacuating agricultural production ir. the South.
Other regions are best served by road.   However, productivity of river
transport operations is low: the load factor of RCDOFLUVIAL's fleet is
about 50 percent, and 65 percent of the round trip time is spent in ports.
The absence of beacons prevents sailing at night on most rivers.
RODOFLUVIAL's services have so far been plagued by lack of spare parts, and
old vessels which break down frequently. The quality of port sevices also
is a constraint for both clients and transporters who often have a long wait
before they are allocated a berth and cargo handling equipment.   Foreign
exchange for spare parts has been made available throut. donor credits,
although operating revenues have not been sufficient to generate enough G
Pesos to fully utilize these resources. Preventive maintenance is carried
out in-house, and hull repairs are contracted out to the local naval repair
facilities which are run efficiently by GUINAVE, a state-owned company.



-6-
RODOFLUVIAL intends to partially modernize its fleet with more suitable
vessels under the Project (pa,. 3.09).
F. Maritime Ports and Shipping
2.15      The country's ports are managed by the semi-autonomous authority,
JAPG.   Port operations are constrained by an acute shortage of equipment
which results in lower than desired productivity.  Spare part availability
has continued to be a problem despite a slight improvement due to the
availability of donor credits. Purchases of new cargo handling equipment are
to be financed by the Arab Funds; but because of their continuous suspension
of disbursements over the past three years, the equipment has not yet been
ordered.  The success of Bissau Port development will be severely jeopardized
unless key cargo-handling equipment can be provided in 1990. Port traffic
(excluding fuel) was about 150,000 tons in 1988, (exports 32,000 tons and
imports 117,000 tons) an increase of 25 percent over 1987; fuel imports
amounted to 22,200 tons in 1988 compared to 33,500 tons in 1987.   Port
traffic is expected to increase at 3-5 percent annually. The port's capacity
after completion of the new facilities and installation of equipment should
be sufficient to handle traffic until the year 2000.   The existing port
facilities, rehabilitated under the ongoing IDA Port Project (Cr. 1392-GUB)
will serve the increasing fishing activities. Some 345 fishing vessels used
port facilities in 1988 as against 245 vessels in 1987, an increase of over
50 percent. The project will continue the institution-building efforts at
JAPG through SET, with particular at intion to strengthening the management
of port operations (para 3.09). In order to increase its autonomy, SET has
drafted a decree to transform JAPG into a public company. Annex 2-3 shows
Port of Bissau traffic statistics.
2.16      Maritime services could be improved through two types of action:
(i) shipping agent services should be upgraded by reorganizing management at
GUINEKAR and by encouraging private participation; and (ii) freight-
forwarding should be organized and opened to the private sector.   The
strategy should aim at building up the local expertise through joint-ventures
with foreign partners and integration of shipping services and freight-
forwarding. These aspects are under study by SET with specialist assistance
(para 2.34). SET's Marine Directorate (DGMP) is responsible for the safety
of the country's maritime traffic: lighthouses, buoys and mapping as well as
all legal matters relating to maritime affairs. A buoy-placing vessel, buoys
and lighthouse rehabilitation were provided under Cr. 1392-GUB.   Due to
frequent changes in the vessel's staff, the training program has, so far,
been unproductive and the buoy-placing vessel has been practically inactive
since its handing over to DGMP in July 1987, because of lack of fuel and
spare parts. Action is being taken by SET to contract operations and further
training under Cr. 1^92-GUB. Assistance will be provided under the project
to improve DGMP's workshops and services (para 3.05).
G. Airports and Civil Aviation
2.17      The number of domestic aerodromes (17) is high for such a small
country.   Many have become hazardous for lack of maintenance and should
remain closed since traffic does not justify their rehabilitation.   Any
investments other than those included in the AfDB project to improve
facilities and maintain safe operations at Bissalanca, the international



- 7 -
airport, and possibly Cufar and Bubaque, seem uneconomical.   However, the
development of airports should not be seen in isolation from that of air
transport services and traffic; and there might be positive trade-offs
between increased maintenance costs for keeping a greater number of airports
open  and  a  more  intensive  use  of  aircraft  through  larger  routing
opportunities which would raise their productivity. Any decisions should be
linked with the future operations of TAGB, the government airline, which is
in a critical condition and needs to be reorganized based on a thorough
assessment of potential markets and of the human and financial resources
needed to run economically viable services.
2.18      A PPF financed diagnostic study on the financial viability of TAGB
examined several options for the future developinpnt of the national airline
(para  3.15).    The  least  cost  option  for  the  country  would  be  the
transformation of TAGB into an aeroclub with one or two small planes for
charter flights and thn collection of royalties  from all international
airlines serving Guinea Bissau. However, in view of the need to guarantee
regional services and support to the tourism industry, the Government has
recommended the option which calls for the association between TAGB and a
foreign airline. This option calls for the creation of a five-year venture
between TAGB, a foreign airline and national private investors. The new TAGB
would be managed under a renewable management contract with heavy
participation from the foreign airline, while Guinean nationals are being
trained (para 2.33). Terms of Reference for inviting international aviation
companies to create a new aviation company in Guinea Bissau were agreed at
negotiations and evidence has been received that international aviation
companies have been invited to present their proposals.
H. The Urban Setting
2.19      Most  of Guinea-Bissau's  urban  centers,  and  specifically  the
capital, inherited fairly well-organized systems of road, drainage and water
supply infrastructure from the colonial period; although in most cases, these
were  almost  exclusively  confined  to  downtown  areas  and  military
installations. However, maintenance of all infrastructure has been severely
neglected, and virtually no funding made available to extend infrastructure
networks into the rapidly expanding new settlement areas. Today, not only
is a majority of urban residents deprived of access to even minimal
infrastructure services, but also large parts of the existing networks are
in a state of extreme dilapidation.
2.20      As a combined result of both the population densification of
existing housing areas and the persisting lack of maintenance of water
supply and drainage networks, the sanitary conditions particularly in Bissau,
have reached a critical stage.   Possibly up to 90 percent of the city's
population has no access to safe water provided by EAGB. Most of them have
to resort to supplies from a shallow water table, which is heavily polluted
by infiltrations from latrines and solid waste deposits.  Regular garbage
collection is limited to the downtown area, but is rather erratic because of
frequent equipment breakdowns. A cholera outbreak in October 1987, reported-
ly exacted a toll of over 400 victims.   While temporarily brought under
control, the epidemic is likely to remain endemic or erupt anew unless the
basic sanitary problems are remedied in a more definite manner.
!



2.21      Housing conditions in Bissau are generally very poor.  Aside from
the colonial villas left in th,; downtown area and currently occupied by
government officials and members of the foreign community, most houses are
of traditional design and usually built with locally available materials.
Since independence the Government's strategy for the development of the
housing sector has consisted pr4imarily in attempts to canvass external,
principally bilateral, funding for various public housing projects intended
for civil servants. Results haze been disappointing since no more than 150
units have been completed over the past decade, while several other projects
have been abandoned at various stages of completion. The Government is now
starting to tackle the housing problem systematically; a housing policy is
being prepared, as well as mechanisms for distribution to civil servants and
private sector of housing plots serviced under SIRP and the project (para
3.14).
2.22      Some prospects for improvement of urban infrastructure and services
have recently begun to develop.  AfDB approved in 1988 a Water Supply and
Drainage Improvement Project for Bissau of US$7.7 million equivalent.  The
French Cooperation Fund (FAC) is presently providing technical assistance and
basic equipment to the Bissau Municipality for the rehabilitation of its
solid waste collection services in the city center, and strengthening of its
genera] administration and accounting departments.   SIRP will tackle the
maintenance and repair backlog of schools, health centers, markets, streets,
etc. in Bissau and several secondary centers. Assistance under the project
will consolidate administration and financing mechanisms for municipalities,
and expand solid waste collection to Bissau suburbs. During negotiations it
was agreed that Bissau Municipality will prepare by June 30, 1991 an action
plan satisfactory to IDA to improve its financial resources for municipal
services and operations, by: (a) updating its existing property taxes and
land lease tariffs; (b) reorganizing its tax administration and its
accounting systems and annual audits; (c) improving its management and
staffing procedures; and (d) on-the-job training (para 3.13).
I. Private Sector Participation
2.23      Private freight transporters, estimated at under 500 individuals,
operate small trucks, and very few own more than one.   They have weak
managerial capacity and limited financial resources; although, the recently-
formed Association of Private Transporters (ASTRA) is providing a better
focus on their needs. The private market share, which may be substantial,
is more the result of the public sector being unable to keep enough capacity
in running order, than of their greater efficiency.   Furthermore,  local
maintenance facilities are inadequate, and importing trucks and spare parts
has been difficult because of the foreign exchange scarcity. For the private
sector to contribute efficiently to the reduction of transport cost, radical
structural changes are required, including privatization of commercial
activities, elimination of barter trades and parallel markets through the
restoration of realistic foreign exchange rates and unrestricted import of
spares and vehicles.   These important reforms are included in the policy
content of Structural Adjustment Programs and already private transporters
are becoming more active in providing freight and passenger services. One
private trucking company started recently to operate internationally with
four large trucks.



- 9 -
2.24       Guinea Bissau has a small, mainly informal construction industry.
Four firms have some building experience, but lack expertise and equipment
for most infrastructure works. Under SIRP, local firms will be given the
opportunity to carry out infrastructure repairs, and their capacity will be
further developed under the project to undertake labor-based road improvement
and maintenance works (para 3.11).
J. Manpower and Training
2.25      The Guinea-Bissau work force suffers from serious shortages of
skilled managers and workers in all sectors.   This condition has been
recognized by both the Government and donor agencies as being crucial to
economic progress and productivity.  In this regard, several factors have
been identified which pose major constraints to further development of the
nation's human resource base. These factors involve: (a) the efficiency and
throughput of the educational system as evidenced by high rates of illiteracy
(affecting 90 percent of all persons above the age of seven), and low school
completion rates (where roughly one student in 5,000 completes the ninth year
without repeating); (b) weak managerial, technical and commercial skills as
evidenced by low work outputs, poor utilization of the work force, poor
planning, no quality control or job accountability, and a strong dependency
upon foreign technical assistance; and (c) non-skill-dependent factors such
as low motivation and morale, lack of tools and equipment, lack of operating
budgets, poor work force supervision, permissive labor laws, and general
acceptance of poor workmanship.   All of these factors act to prevent or
constrain managers and workers from performing well even when they are
competent and well-trained, and impact heavily upon the overall development
of the nation's economy.
2.26      In an effort to deal with the above issues, the Government, with
extensive donor assistance, has attempted to strengthen the education and
training sectors through a series of specific projects that have focused
mainly on primary education,  illiteracy,  and vocational education.   In
addition, sector specific training has been supported through various
projects that have included in-house and on-the-job training, overseas
fellowships, and the transfer of expertise through technical assistance.
Unfortunately, the success of these activities has been difficult to assess
since there is little coordination between the various Government and donor
agencies, and measurable targets are seldom specified or adhered to. This
is substantiated by the fact that despite extensive efforts and investments
the effectiveness of the work force is minimal; meanwhile the country must
continue to rely on technical assistance for some time to come.
2.27      Recognizing  the  conditions  within  the  labor  market,   and
specifically in the transport and urban sectors, a SPPF-financed study
examined the needs of these sectors and recommended specific actions to
develop a critical mass of trained people in Guinea Bissau. The project will
provide support to the two local training institutions (CENFI and CENFA),
under the Professional Training and Technical Institution (ITFP), in
undertaking training to improve management, technical and accounting skills,
overseas fellowships, and technical assistance to MES for managing training
programs and overseeing on-the-job training carried out by consultants (para
3.08).
!



- 10 -
K. Sector Planning, Accounting and Cost Recovery
2.28      The  inadequate  institutional  arrangements  and  the  lack  of
information for planning purposes has been compounded by a distorted view of
benefits  generated by investments.   Typicail,,  projects  have not been
reviewed under an integrated modal approach, or assessed against viable
alternatives within and outside the sub-sector. The Transport Policy (para
2.03) and the Housing Policy (para 2.21) will provide the framework for
improving performance in these sectors.   The strengthening of economic
evaluation of projects by the Studies and Planning offices (GEP/OP in MES and
GEP/T in SET) will be supported under the project, and three-year rolling
transport and urban investment programs will be prepared annually. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that Government will: (a) prepare for IDA
review by September 30 of each year until completion of the project, three-
year rolling urban and transport investment plans, as well as annual budgets
for the coming fiscal year, and physical and iinancial performiances of the
previous fiscal year; (b) ensure that infrastructure sector rehabilitation
and maintenance programs have priority over new construction and upgrading;
(c) only undertake infrastructure investments which have an estimated
economic rate of return greater than 12 percent; and (d) that any proposed
investment over US$1.0 million equivalent will be agreed with IDA.   In
particular, the 1990-92 infrastructure sectors investment program was agreed
at negotiations (Annex 2-4).
2.29      The country has very limited accounting capabilities and all areas
of financial management show weaknesses. In particular, there is a shortage
of qualified accountants in the TCs, which have had to rely on expatriate
assistance. However, this assistance has not yet produced durable effects
since local counterparts generally have a limited education background, which
does not allow them to take over accounting responsibilities when the foreign
expert  leaves.   The same deficiencies  are found at ministries, Bissau
Municipality and the National Bank, BNG, where most personnel in accounts
departments are not qualified, resulting in inaccurate records and a slow
processing of documents. Three accountants in JAPG, RODOFLUVThI and SET have
recently received overseas training, but further assistance will be required
under the project to inculcate sound accounting practices (paras 3.04, 3.05
and 3.09).
2.30      The revenues generated by the Road Fund (RF), which was created
in 1984 under MES (para 2.05) amounted to an estimated G Pesos 370 million
in 1988 (about US$330,000).  RF provides the sole source of local funding
for road maintenance operations. Presently MES maintains about 1000 km or
about 40 percent of the road network, and funding requirement for these
operations is about US$940,000; the shortfall is covered by external sources.
Periodic and routine maintenance costs are expected to increase to about
US$1.9 million by 1995, as MES expands its operations to cover most of the
road network. The RF receives most of its revenues from a tax of G Pesos 11
per liter on gasoline consumption. There is presently no consumption tax on
diesel (gas oil), which retails at less than half the price of gasoline.
Other sources of revenue for the RF (vehicle registration, licensing, import
duties and tolls) produce little in comparison.  Since the main damage to
roads is inflicted by trucks, which are usually diesel powered, a tax needs
to be imposed on their users to support road maintenance costs.  MES has



- 11 -
studied alternatives such as levying a quarterly tax on heavy vehicles or a
consumption tax on die sel which would be more easily collected through DICOL,
the national petroleum  company.  A diesel consumption tax usually better
reflects the wear on road pavements caused by heavy vehicles and can be
easily collected at source of distribution, although DICOL payments of the
gasoline consumption tax have been slow in reaching the treasury. However,
in Guinea Bissau about 40 percent of diesel is consumed by non-] oad users,
such as EAGB and farm vehicles. Consequently, the Government has decided to
increase revenues for road maintenance by: (a) raising the tax on the CIF
price of gasoline from 5 to 20 percent by December 31, 1990; (b) increasing
the circulation tax, by July 31, 1990, and adjusting it quarterly to reflect
inflation as indicated by the national bank (BNG); and (c) creating a
quarterly tax on diesel powered road vehicles to be updated quarterLy to
reflect inflation, starting July 31, 1990; such tax to replace existing road
and bridge tolls.   During negotiations agreement was reached on measures
needed to establish each year the values of all proposed taxes, except the
gasoline tax, according to the inflation rate and the needs of the road fund,
and to improve their collection, including better coordination with the
Customs Department for collecting customs taxes on imported vehicles and
spare parts, as well as timeliness of deposits into the RF.  The agreed
objective is to increase RF revenues to cover at least 20 percent of
programmed road maintenance operations through 1990, 30 percent in 1991 and
1992, 40 percent in 1993 and 1994, and 50 percent thereafter. As a Condition
of Effectiveness, the Government will take measures satisfactory to the
Association to enable an increase in revenues for the RF to cover the agreed
amounts for road maintenance expenditures.  Annex 2-5 provides details of
road user charges, projections of road fleet growth and fuel consumption,
and RF administration costs, and an estimate of revenues generated for the
RF.
2.31       Transportation  Services.   Whereas  cost  recovery  for  freight
transport is broadly satisfactory, the Government's concern about the social
impact of tariff increases has often resulted in late adjustments of rates
which  have  caused  financial imbalances  for some  TCs.   In  particular,
reluctance to raise passenger tariffs has severely affected SILO DIATA and
TAGB. Under the PPF, SET is assisting each of the TCs to prepare criteria
for adjusting tariffs to compensate for inflation and to cover long-term
variable costs of services provided by the TCs. Production targets will be
set and quarterly reviews undertaken by SET. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on: (a) operational and financial targets for each of the TCs;
and   (b)  criteria  for  adjusting  periodically  their  tariffs.             The
implementation of the revised system for adjusting tariffs for each TC is a
Condition of Effectiveness.
2.32       RODOFLUVIAL, the  trucking  and  river  transport parastatal,  is
financially self-sufficient and is not contributing to the fiscal deficit.
Over the next five years, RODOFLUVIAL is expected to be profitable, but is
not expected to pay income taxes to compensate for the negative results in
previous  years.   JAPG  is  also  self-sufficient and  is  expected  to  be
profitable from 1991 onwards if the ongoing port modernization is completed
without undue delay, and the improvements in management are implemented. As
shown in a recent study (para 4.08), by the end of 1988, SILO DIATA's debts
amounted to US$1.2 million (equivalent) mainly to Portugue3e suppliers. SILO
DIATA will have to restructure in order to provide financially viable



-12 -
operations and satisfactory services.   During negotiations the Government
agreed to assume SILO DIATA's foreign debt (Condition of Effectiveness), and
to actively continue discussions with private companies to enter into a joint
venture with SILO DIATA to form a viable bus company.
2.33      The distressed financial condition of TAGB stems from equipment
failure, lack of spare parts and inadequate pricing of its services. TAGB
maintains only a simplistic accounting system, and has not produced financial
statements in recent years. Its two aircrafts (an Antonov and a HS740) are
used for scheduled service to Dakar and Conakry. The load factor to Dakar
is around 80 percent and TAGB appears to be capturing a higher market share
than Air Senegal.  However, its tariffs have been lower than those of Air
Senegal and the majority of the users are nationals who pay in local currency
when most of the expenses, including the crew and maintenance are in foreign
exchange. The flight to Conakry has very low load factors (25 to 30 percent)
and during the dry season not even an intermediate stop in Cufar has
increased the number of passengers. Tariffs on this run are also lower than
operating costs and revenues have not even covered fuel costs. In an attempt
to increase the low aircraft utilization from 500 to approximately 1000
hoursiyear and increase its foreign exchange earnings, TAGB recently
negotiated a flight from Bissau to Las Palmas with SEMAPESCA, a private
fishing outfit for the transportation of cargo and passengers. In addition,
TAGB negotiated a scheduled weekly flight to Cape Verde with rental of the
HS740 to the TACV, Cape Verde airline. Also, costs of aircraft maintenance
provided by TACV are lower than those normally paid by TAGB. Finally, TAGB
negotiated a pool agreement with a French airline (EAS) to link Paris, Lisbon
and Bissau; the weekly flights are showing load factors of above 70 percent
between Lisbon and Bissau, but only 20-23 percent between Lisbon and Paris
because  TAGB/EAS  do not  have  traffic  rights  for  this  segment.    The
Association has provided an alternative to TAP, but over the initial period
was costing an estimated US$150,000 monthly in foreign exchange to Guinea
Bissau. The future of air transport in Guinea Bissau hinges on finding the
mix of international and domestic flights which will satisfy the demand for
regional and overseas connections and minimize the foreign exchange costs to
the country (paras 4.16 and 4.17).
2.34      In 1987, GUINEMAR showed a profit of G Peso 250 million, of which
75 million were gains due to the peso devaluation. However, the amount of
receivables is extremely high and GUINEMAR needs to reduce its average
collection period. Also, GUINEMAR remains the highest debtor to the JAPG (GP
750 million by October 1988) and was given an ultimatum by JAPG to settle its
accounts. Given the high amounts in foreign exchange payments involved in
GUINEMAR operations, the problem in collecting its fees from shipowners and
the clear lack of financial management, SET has engaged a firm to audit
GUINEMAR's accounts and to recommend actions to improve its operations and
financial performance.   The recent appearance in the market of private
shipping agencies such as TRANSMAR may bring about an improvement of
GUINEMAR'S level of service. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
the restructuring of GUINEMAR, including private participation, if necessary,
by June 30, 1991; and for GUINEMARP to repay by June 30, 1990 all debt owed
to JAPG as of March 1, 1990; and to repay all future bills owed ..o JAPG
within a period of four months of the date of billing.



- 13 -
L. Sector Issues and Strategy
2.35      Guinea Bissau's Transport  Policy  (para 2.03)  focuses  on the
country's main transport problems and policy issues, and presents a strategy
for tackling them over the short and medium term. It proposes a coordinated
approach linking necessary policy and institutional reforms to a phased
program of donor assistance to rehabilitate the transport sector, which is
crucial for the success of Guinea-Bissau's economic  recovery.   In the
infrastructure sectors the Government will give priority to rehabilitation
and maintenance programs over new construction, with investments having an
estimated economic rate of return greater than 12 percent.  Private sector
participation will be encouraged in urban and transport activities, including
contracting of housing, refuse collection, periodic road maintenance and
feeder road works. Suitable criteria for pricing of services and adequate
cost recovery are to be established particularly in: (a) read user charges;
(b) passenger and freight transport, port, airport and airline tariffs, and
(c) property taxes to cover urban services, and (d) land lease tariffs to
cover sites and services for housing plots.   The creation of a National
Airport Authority in charge of maintaining and operating the airports was
studied under an AfDB-financed project and MES intends to implement its
recommendations. The inadequate cost-recovery in the TCs will be addressed
as part of their reorganization and restructuring under the project, and
through efforts to improve efficiency by training to upgrade skills and
reducing unskilled staffing levels.
2.36      Although the Government has recently followed a positive policy
towards establishing a market-oriented transport system, an institutional
framework needs to be developed for policy discussions between the private
sector and MES/SET, which is essential for building a climate of mutual
confidence.   There has been a lack of clarity about Government's new
policies, especially where the past regulatory framework provided conflicting
signals. In order to provide a sound basis for efficient transportation, new
regulations have  been  drafted.    The main  issues  facing  the  TCs  are
inefficiency, over-staffing, aged fleets, weak maintenance structures and,
especially for SILO DIATA and TAGB, their foreign debt and government
subsidies.   The structural adjustment program is addressing parastatal
reforms as part of a national program, and the TCs will be provided further
assistance under the project, through SET, for internal restructuring,
management of operations, equipment maintenance and accounting (para 3.05).
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the new transport regulations;
their publication to be carried out by Credit Effectiveness.
H. Bank Group Involvement in the Infrastructure Sectors
2.37      Port of Bissau Project (Credit 1392-GUB).  Financing by IDA (SDR
14.9 million) was complemented by Arab Funds (US$31.5 million equivalent).
The IDA project provided for: (a) rehabilitation of the old port facilities
at Bissau; (b) extension of river transportation facilities - four new ports
and reconstruction of eight river ramps; (c) construction and repair of
office buildings and staff houses; (d) procurement of a buoy-placing vessel
and minor equipment, and (e) technical assistance to RODOFLUVIAL, JAPG and
SET. The project is expected to be completed by June 1990.   Repeated
suspensions of disbursement by the Arab Funds, because of repayment arrears,
which are financing the construction of a new berth at Bissau and pro irement



- 14 -
of cargo handling equipment, will further delay completion of the project if
the problem of arrears payments causes extended suspension.   Institution
building has progressed, but will fall short of initial targets.  The low
professional level of management, lack of motivation and excessive rotation
of staff, and to some extent, inadequate technical assistance explain this
disappointing performance. Port treffic has grown faster than estimated at
appraisal and in 1988 was about 150,000 tons (excluding fuel) compared to
110,000 tons forecast.
2.38      The First and Second Roads Projects (Credits 878 and 1473/F018-
GUB).   IDA financed US$9 million and administered the EEC Special Action
Credit No.44 for the First Project, and for the Second Project about US$8
million (SDR 7.8 million) with the Kuwait Fund contributing US$5.6 million.
The objective under the two roads projects was to strengthen road management,
rehabilitate gravel and paved roads, support road maintenance and improve
ferry crossings and operations. Audit Report No. 6328 for the first project,
issued on June 30, 1986, highlighted the difficult local conditions and the
acute shortage of local staff with necessary basic skills.   The ongoing
second project has been set back by unavailability of the Kuwait Fund Credit
up to February 1988 and between September 1988 and June 1989, because of
disbursement suspensions caused by repayment arrears, which finance equipment
and fuel for road maintenance operations in the southern half of the country
and a paved road rehabilitation contract. The IDA project is substantially
completed and funds are almost fully disbursed, but completion of the Kuwait
Fund components will depend on future uninterrupted disbursements.
2.39      The First and Second Reconstruction Import Credits (Credits 1531
and A14-GUB). The First and Second Recorstruction Import Credits, totalling
US$15 millon equivalent, allocated some US$4 millon to the transport sector,
including about US$1.2 million for the TCs. The closing dates are June 30
and December 31, 1989, respectively. These funds have been made available
to purchase spare parts and have contributed to a limited extent to raising
the availability rate of transport equipment. However, shortages of G Peso
cover on behalf of the TCs prevented full utilization of these credits, and
will amount to only about half the allocation to the transport sector.
2.40      The Social and Infrastructure Relief Project (Credit 2020-GUB).
This project was approved on May 18, 1989, and declared effective on October
30, 1989. IDA is financing SDR 3.85 million (about US$5.0 million) out of
an overall project cost of about US$17 million, of which 56 percent has been
allocated to infrastructure works in Bissau and secondary centers, comprising
repairs to streets, sidewalks, culverts, water supply and se-erage systems
and community facilities (schools, health centers, markets, etc.), as well
as servicing 700 housing plots in the Antula neighborhood in Bissau.  The
project will be implemented over a three-year period and is expected to be
completed by end-1992.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
3.01      The project components were prepared by MES/SET with assistance of
consultants financed under the Second Roads and Port of Bissau Projects and
two PPF Advances for the project.   The project was initially designed to
cover a four-year period; however, considering the ongoing and recently
committed investments in the infrastructure sectors and the investment
ceilings agreed under the country's structural adjustment program, as well
as the absorptive capacity of government agencies, the project period has
been extended to cover a five-year period (1990-1994).
3.02      The main objectives of the project are to:
(a)  strengthen the government institutions involved in the transport
sectors (MES and SET) in: (i) management of maintenance and
operations; (ii) planning and coordination of sector activities;
and (iii) financial management of public transport companies;
(b)  contribute to a greater equilibrium between road and river
transport by: (i) rehabilitating about 14 percent of the classified
road network, and priority urban streets; (ii) assisting public
transport companies to improve efficiency and reliability of
service; and (iii) facilitating private participation in transport
and infrastructure operations;
(c)  remove bottlenecks to increased agricultural production,
particularly in the South, by improving parts of the existing
feeder road network;
(d)  improve municipal management and services in Bissau and other
centers, and provide serviced plots and demonstration houses to
more fully address the need for low cost housing; and
(e)  support a comprehensive manpower development and training program
to   provide   trained   personnel   for   Government   agencies,
municipalities and the private sector to operate, maintain and
manage urban and transport infrastructure and services.
B.        Project Description
3.03      To realize the above objectives, the project will provide financial
assistance for the following components:
(a) Institutional Support
(i) strengthening the management of MES, including coordination
of infrastructure projects, budgeting and financing, as well
as remodelling and construction of houses and offices for
technical assistance and logistic support;
(ii) strengthening the management of SET in transport planning,
marine services and monitoring of TCs, including technical
assistance for studies, advice to private transporters, and
preparation of performance plans and private participation or



- 16 -
agreements for SILO DIATA, RODOFLUVIAL, JAPG, TAGB and
GUINEMAR, and logistic support;
(iii) strengthening of LEGUI's capability to undertake soils and
materials  testing  and  research  studies,  remodelling  the
laboratory and logistic support;
(iv) five year manpower development and training program, including
remodelling of training facilitieE and logistic support; and
(v)  auditing  of  proiect  acco.ints,  and  accounts  of  Bissat
Municipality and p.tblic tranuport companies;
(b)  Transport Companies (TCs)
(i)  spare parts and workshop assistance for SILO DIATA;
(ii) one barge, ten trucks, spare parts and workshop assistance
for RODOFLUVIAL;
(iii) workshop assistance for JAPG; and
(iv) workshop assistance for TAGB;
(c) Road Infrastructure Program
(i)  rehabilitatior. and resealing of about 180 km of paved roads;
(ii) rehabilitation of about three km of urban streets in .issau
and paving of about five km in other centers;
(iii) rehabilitation and graveling of about 175 km of laterite and
earth roads, including about 16 km of low-cost asphalt paving;
(iv) improvement of about 130 km of feeder roads and 40-60 km of
trails by labor-based methods, including specialist training
and a study of non-motorized transport in rural areas;
(v)  construction and rehabilitation of seven ferry ramps, and
replacement of one ferry;
(iv) equipment, vehicles, spare parts, materials and contracts for
maintenance of roads, aerodromes and ferry crossings, and
logistic support for DGEP; and
(vii) technical assistance, including on-the-job training for DGEP
and domestic contractors, and road studies;
(d) Urban Program
(i) equipment and vehicles for solid waste collection, technical
assistance and logistic support for Bissau Municipality;



- 17 -
(ii) development of about 470 plots in Bissau and 250 plots in the
provincial and regional centers for low-cost housing including
construction of about 40 cost-effective demonstration houses,
including a survey of persons currently living on the sites,
and their resettlement, if necessary; and
(iii) technical assistance, including on-the-job training, to DGHU
for strengthening urban planning and advisory services to
municipalities   for  improving  technical  and  financial
management.
C.   Institutional Support
3.04      Technical assistance to MES will be provided through a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) totalling about 108 m-m over the project period
(first three years full time), comprising a coordinator (civil engineer) for
42 m-m  and an accountant for 32 m-m, as well as a training advisor (34 m-m)
who will assist in organizing a Human Resource Planning and Management
Section  (HRPM)  to be established in GEP/OP.   The PCU will coordinate
implementation of all project components, management of IDA and donor funds,
authorization of project expenditures, preparation of progress reports to the
Minister  and  donor  agencies,  cor.tracting  of  project  audits,   and
administration of the training program.   PCU will also assist MES/SET in
preparation of annual aid three-year investment plans, and annual budgets and
expenditure reviews.  %:U will coordinate its activities through an Executive
Committee comprising the Directors of GEP/OP, GEP/T, DGHU and DGEP, the
General Secretary of MES and the State Secretary of Transport, under the
chairmanship of the Minister of MES.   Contracting of the coordinator,
accountant and training advisor for the PCU is a Condition of Effectiveness.
3.05      Technical assistance to SET will be provided through a Transport
Coordination Unit (TCU), comprising economists, financial analysts and
engineers, totaling about 124 m-m, as well as 72 m-m of mechanical Hnd
workshop assistance to RODOFLUVIAL, SILO DIATA, JAPG and TAGB.   TCU will
assist GEP/T with studies, monitoring performance of, and providing advice
to the TCs and members of ASTRA, as well as assisting SET departments, DGTT
and DGMP, in carrying out their functions. DGMP workshop will be remodelled
and equipped, and two launches purchased.   TCU will organize and conduct
regular training courses for public and private sector participation.
3.06      Technical  assistance  to  SET,  LEGUI,  DGEP,  DGHU,  Bissau
Municipality, and the public transport companies and for the comprehensive
training program is detailed below under the relevant components.   The
intention is for all technical assistance to work cor.tinuously and closely
with their counterparts over the project period; or where counterparts are
lacking, to undertake direct responsibilities. As counterparts obtain the
necessary skills, assistance will be phased out, and reduced to periodic
visits for specific tasks znd to further upgrade skills.   The terms of
reference for all assistance under the project were agreed at negotiations.
Terms of reference for PCU, TCU and TO and assistance to DGHU and Bissau
Municipality are provided in the project file.   Organizational charts of
MES's coordination of the project and of the PCU are provided in Annex 3-1.



- 18 -
3.07       Assistance to LEGUI will enable it to: (i) equip its laboratory
to undertake more effectively soils and materials tests for works; (ii) carry
out an  inventory  of local materials  for buildings  and road works; and
(iii) undertake research on low-cost paving of laterite roads. The technical
assistance (18 m-mn) is expected to be provided by LNEC of Portugal which has
been assisting LEGUI since 1986.  Details of the LEGUI program are provided
in Annex 3-2.
3.08       The comprehensive manpower development and training program will
train about 1,500 people in management, accounting and operational activities
relating to the infrastructure and transport sectors; the training advisor
in PCU will manage the program. An estimated 20 percent of the participants
will come from the private sector, and 30-40 people will undertake short
courses or study tours outside Guinea Bissau. A further 400 of MES/SET staff
will receive basic literacy educatior. The courses in Bissau will be run by
foreign institutions and by the two training institutions in Bissau: CENFI
and CENFA.  The project will also provide training equipment and logistic
support for the program and will convert part of a building at MES into a
training center. Details of the manpower development and training program
are provided in the project file, and budget estimates are provided in Annex
3-3.
D.   Transport Companies
3.09       In line with its overall public enterprise reform objectives, the
Government intends to reform TCs to improve their efficiency and to privatize
those with commercial potential. Through the creation under the project of
an appropriate regulatory environment, a more substantive involvement of the
private sector is expected to evolve over the coming years.  Consequently
under this project the main strategy with respect to the TCs is as follows:
(a) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the TCs performing a public
function, including private sector participation, namely JAPG, GUINEMAR; and
(b) privatize TCs with commercial potentia], namely RODOFLUVIAL, SILO DIATA
and TAGB where their financial viability can bs established.  The project
will provide technical assistance through the TCU in SET, concentrated over
the first two years of the project period, to assist the TCs in improving
their  financial  operations  and  workshop  management.    For  TCs  to  be
privatized, tha TCU will help prepare and carry out action plans to this
effect.  In particular, RODOFLUVIAL will replace obsolete tLcks and begin
modernizing its barge fleet, and receive workshop assistance; JAPG's
assistance is mainly designed to increase port productivity and develop
cspability to carry out technical and mi'dle management tasks; SILO DIATA's
assistance will create proper accounting and financial management procedures,
and provide a service vehicle, spare parts, workshop renovation and
assistance to repair the bus fleet; TAGB's assistance will create adequate
coumercial accounting and financial management procedures, and workshop
assistance. Details of the financial statements and investment plans, and
the operational and financial targets for RODOFLUVIAL, JAPG, SILO DIATA and
TAGB are provided in Chapter IV. During negotiations agreemeat was reached
that by March 31, 1991, the Government will present IDA with specific action
plans for involviog private participation in each of the TCs; changes
required in the ownership or management of the TCs to be implemented by
January 1, 1992.



- 19 -
E.   Road Infrastructure
3.10      The road infrastructure program has three primary objectives!
(a) rehabilitation of paved and unpaved roads, including river crossings.
that provide essential access between agricultural production areas and river
ports or consumption centers: (b) imprcrements to feeder roads in the
important agricultural area in the South; and (c) consolidating the rord
maintenanc  effort initiated under the Second Roads Project.   DGEP roaa
brigades, with increasing participation of contractors, should be capable of
adequately maintaining the rehabilitated network by 1995. Of the 2636 km of
roads in Guinea Bissau, about 515 km (63 percent) of paved roads and about
580 km (72 percent) of laterite gravel roads should be in good condition by
1995, although less than 343 km (about 34 percent) of earth roads, which
support little traffic, would be in a maintainable state.  Details of the
road infrastructure program are provided in Annex 3-4, and the pilot feeder
road program in Annex 3-5.
3.11      About 130 km of feeder roads and 40-60 km of trails in the South
will be improved under a pilot program by labor-based methods which utilize
local labor and unsophisticated equipment. Road improvements are needed to
support agriculture development in the area by providing better access to
markets and river ramps. The construction methodology will take into account
experience gained under a Swedish-funded project in the North which has
rehabilitated some 100 km through labor-based and equipment means. The works
will be managed by a DGEP unit which will contract out most of the tasks to
three domestic firms, with hire-purchase arrangements for equipment.  The
average cost of the work is estimated at US$10,400 per km; subsequent feeder
road maintenance will average about US$250 per year. Technical assistance
and specialist training will be provided under the project by an engineer (54
in-m) and two UN volunteers (65 m-m) to enable labor-based activities to
become a permanent alternative method for undertaking road works.   The
project will also set up procedures for maintaining the improved roads
through contracts with small, local firms and communities. Furthermore, a
study will be undertaken to investigate the possibility of introducing non-
motorized transport in rural areas, irn order to facilitate on-farm and farm-
to-village travel which is mainly carried out by women who head-load
3.12      Technical assistance  to DGEP for ma-aging and executing road
maintenance and rehabilitation started in 1985 under the Second Roads
Project.    Because  of  the  acute  shortage  of  trained  staff  and  the
concentration on improving road conditions and maintenance under the project,
key assistance to DGEP will be continued over the project period through MES'
Technical Office (TO), which was established under SIRP, amounting to 200 m-
m, comprising a highway engineer, short-term workshop specialists, and two
roads technicians, who will also undertake engineering design and supervise
contracted work. Classroom and on-the-job training will be provided under
the general direction of the training advisor in the PCU.
F.   Urban Program
3.13      The components of the urban program will primarily complement and
enhance actions or activities initiated earlier in municipal management
strengthening and low-cost housing development under projects funded by IDA
(SIRP) and other donors.  Technical assistance (30 m-m) will be provided to



- 20 -
DGHU   for   strengthening  urban  planning  and  advisory   services   to
municipalities. The pilot program for the Bissau Municipality will provide
a limited number of solid waste collection vehicles and equipment, as well
as technical assistance (10 m-m) and related logistic support for improving
the municipality's technical and financial management systems. The component
would largely build on experience gained through assistance provided by
France (FAC), which is scheduled to be completed in 1990, and through SIRP
in implementation of small-scale urban infrastructure wor!:s.  Measures to
improve Bissau Municipality's financial resourc.es, 'n particular through
appropriate updating of the existing property tax and land lease tariffs will
be prepared with technical assistance (10 m-m) and form the municipality's
action plan (para 2.22).
3.14      The site development and housing component will expand on the
sites-and-services operations carried out under SIRP in Bissau, and include
the servicing of about 470 additional plots in the city, and about 250 plots
in about six secondary centers. The component will also include the building
of a series of low-cost demonstration houses in various locations in order
to show the feasibility of cost-effective housing solutions, promote
appropriate construction techniques, and serve as a testing ground for the
development of adequate design standards and building regulations.   In
addition, the implementation of the works included in this component is
expected to partly overlap with the execution of the Housing Sector Policy
Study, funded under the PPF and, thus, to provide the study the opportunity
to check the validity of its recommendations or rectify the options proposed
in light of the experiences with actual, life-size operations. Criteria for
housing plot allocation and cost recovery mechanisms are being studied under
the PPF, together with the conditions for sale or transfer of demonstration
houses (para 3.23). Details of the Urban Program are provided in Annex 3-6.
G. Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance
3.15      To assist Guinea Bissau in preparing project components, an advance
of US$1,500,000 has been granted in the form of a PPF (US$750,000 in December
1987 and US$750,000 in March 1989). The funds are being used to finance: (a)
studies to prepare financially and economically feasible investment programs
for TCs; (b) pilot housing development component and a Housing Sector Policy;
(c) spare parts and materials for buses and road maintenance; and
(d) technical assistance and logistic support to SET and DGEP.
H. Project Cost Estimates and Financing
3.16      The estimated total cost of the pro4ect, including contingencies,
is US$43.3 million equivalent. No duties or taxes are to be levied against
project items, except for local contracts for civil and building works, which
will be small. The foreign exchange component is about US$34.3 million, or
79 percent of the total cost. Base costs have been estimated at December
1989 prices. Physical contingencies average about 5.5 percent of base costs:
10 percent for civil and works and road maintenance equipment; 5 percent for
equipment, tools and spare parts, and for institutional support, technical
assistance and studies.  No physical contingencies have been provided for
road maintenance operations because the estimates are based on budget
allocations for a five-year  (1990-94)  time slice.   Price contingencies
average 14.9 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies, and are based



- 21 -
on estimated foreign inflation of 7.2 percent in 1990, and 4.4 percent
thereafter. Annual local inflation projections are 25 percent in 1990, 15
percent in 1991, and 8 percent thereafter. This assumes that the exchange
rate (taken as US$1.0 = G Peso 2,600 for base cost estimates) will be
adjusted for divergences between foreign and local rates of inflation.
Overall, almost 500 m-m of management, technical, financial, volunteer and
training assistance will be provided under the pr ject.  Consultants will
also undertake detailed design and supervise building and civil works,
through the TO, and will carry out transport and urban sector studies, and
audits. Training institutes will carry out courses in Bissau and abroad.
3.17      The project will be financed by IDA (US$23.6 million equivalent)
and the Government will provide US$4.8 million equivalent through budget
appropriations and the Road Fund.  Presently, there is a financing gap of
US$14.9 million to complete the financing plan for the project.   Several
donors have been approached including EDF, UNCDF. FAC, AfDB, Kuwait Fund, KfW
and UNDP. Reactions from these donors have been positive, and it is expected
that the financing gap will be filled in a timely fashion. The bulk of the
financing gap relates to road rehabilitation and maintenance equipment for
which IDA financing will cover at least the first year requirements. Other
IDA-financed components will be affected by delays in cofinancing only to the
extent that the rehabilitation program will be implemented over a longer
period. Annex 3-7 provides details of cost estimates and a financing plan
which shows tentative amounts from possible cofinanciers.



- 22 -
QIDEA 8ISSAU
31FRASTRUCRRE REHABILIATION PROJECT
Sumary Cost Table
(U18 '000)
(Base Cost as at D ecnebr 31, 1989)
TOTAL
TOTAL     Percentage of
LOC d    FOREIGI    TOTAL       Base Cost
A. Institutional Support
(t) MES Strengthening                    134.0   1,008.0   1,140.0        3.2%
(li) SET Strengthening                    184.0   1,708.0   1,890.0 e.3%
(iIi) LEWI Strengthening                   128.4     683.6      710.0       2.0%
(lv) Training Program                     174.2   1,180.8   1,366.0        3.8%
(v) Auditing of Project and T.C.s         40.0     360.0      400.0       1.1%
(vi) Project Preparation                    0.0   1,500.0   1,500.0        4.2%
Subtotal                                   658.8   6,338.4   6,996.0        19.8%
B. Transport Companies
(i) Silo Diata                            35.4     803.6      839.0       2.3%
(il) Rodofluvial                           14.4   1,729.6   1,744.0        4.9%
(111) JAPG                                  14.4     129.6      144.0       0.4%
(iv) TAGS                                  14.4      129.6     144.0       0.4%
Subtotal                                    78.6   2,792.4   2,871.0         8.0%
C. Road Infrastructure Program
(i) Road Rehabilitation                2,119.6   8,389.2  10,488.8       29.4%
(Ti) Ferry Boat and Ramps                 160.0      40. 0    1,000.0      2.8%
(il) Technical assistance                 278.0   2,484.0   2,780.0        7.7%
(iv) Equipment Replacement                  0.0   1,700.0   1,700.0        4.8%
Subtotal                                 2,656.6  13,393.2  16,948.8        44.7%
D. Urban Program
(1) Garbage & Office Equipment             0.0     396.0      396.0       1.1%
(ii) Housing Program                      407.8     757.3   1,185.0        3.3%
(ill) Tech. Assistance                      40.0     360.0      400.0       1.1%
Subtotal                                   447.8   1,512.3   1,960.0         5.5%
E. Road Maintenance Operations           3,178.0   4,784.0   7,940.0       22.2%
Total Project Base Cost                  6,916.5  28,798.3  35,714.8       100.0%
Physical Contingencies                   301.0   1,872.2   1,973.2         5.6%
Price Contingencies                     1,784.1   3,823.5   5,607.6       15.7%
Total Project Cost                       9,001.7  34,293.9  43,295.8



- 23 -
I. Implementation and Present Status of the Project
3.18      The  Minister  of  MES  will  have  overall  responsibility  for
implementation of the Project, with the State Secretary of SET responsible
for transport components and the General Directors of DGEP and DGUH
responsible for the roads and urban components respectively. The PCU will
manage project accounts, reporting, and overall coordination of procurement,
technical assistance and training programs.   The PCU will also provide
support in planning, budgeting and monitoring functions, and in coordinating
programs with other technical ministries and the Ministry of Plan.   An
agreement  has  been  signed  between MES  and  Bissau  Municipality.    A
Participation Agreement will be entered into between SET and each TC
receiving direct assistance under the Project (Condition of Effectiveness).
An outline of these Participation Agreements was agreed at negotiations
(Annex 3-8).
3.19      The five-year (1990-94) road rehabilitation and maintenance program
has been prepared, feeder road improvements identified, and TC programs
analyzed.   The manpower development and training study was completed in
December 1988. The project was appraised in November 1988 and negotiated in
October 1989; the Credit should be effective by March 1990.  The project
should be physically completed by June 30, 1995, which allows for a 6-month
slippage in executing the five-year program. The implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 3-9.
J. Procurement
3.20      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement al
(US$ millions)
Total
Project
Items to be Procured         Procurement Method                  Cost
ICB     LCB    Other     NA b/
Civil and building          13.8     2.7   -          -          16.5
works                     (5.7)   (0.4)  -          -          (6.1)
Road maintenance            -       -       0.8       -           0.8
operations                               (0.8)      -          (0.8)
Equipment and                5.2    -       1.3       -           6.5
materials except for      (1.9)   -       (0.3)     -          (2.2)
maintenance operations
Consulting services         -       -       9.3       -           9.3
and training                             (7.7)      -          (7.7)
Recurrent expenditure       -       -       8.7       -           8.7
(5.3)     -          (5.3)
Refinancing PPF                                        1.5        1.5
(1.5)      (1.5)
TOTAL      19.0    2.7    20.1        1.5       43.3
(7.6)  (0.4)  (14.1)     (1.5)      (23.6)
a/ Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses.



- 24 -
3.21      Procurement of civil works, equipment, vehicles and non-proprietary
spares will be carried out under ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Small contracts for construction and remodelling of houses and offices
aggregating up to US$400,000 will be carried out bv LCB procedures which will
include local advertising, public bid opening, specific criteria for bid
evaluation and award to lowest evaluated bidder.   Works related to road
maintenance operations include small and scattered works, which are not
likely to interest established contractors. These works estimated at less
than US$200,000 each, aggregating to US$800,000, may be awarded through
competitive bidding process among small qualified local contractors.   The
bidding documents will include description of specific criteria which will
be taken into account besides the price; the reference unit price will be
specified in the bidding documents and the b'dders will be invited to bid by
way of discount or increase to the reference price. This procedure will be
followed, with the assistance of the TO, for encouraging the small domestic
firms. Contracts for the supply of goods and materials less than US$200,000
per contract, aggregating to US$3,000,000, will be done by prudent shopping
with a minimum of three quotations; items of proprietary nature will be
procured directly  from original  suppliers.   Requirements  of fuels  and
lubricants under recurring expenditure for road maintenance operations would
be procured under borrower's  procurement procedures.    Consultants  for
technical and managerial assistance, studies and audits will be appointed in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. The consultant appointed to set up the PCU
and to develop the comprehensive training program is expected to be retained
to continue providing services for the PCU.   Also the joint venture of
consultants appointed to the TO, under SIRP, will be invited to extend their
contract to carry out the tasks of the same TO under the present project.
All transactions in excess of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
approval by IDA; this is expected to cover about 65 percent of IDA financing.
K.    Disbursements
3.22      Although the project covers a five-year period, disbursements are
expected to be completed in six years, following more closely the historic
disbursement profile for IDA-financed highway sector projects in West Africa.
The first highway project was disbursed in 4.5 years and the second in about
five years.   The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project is, however, more
complex. Initial disbursements will be greater than historic levels due to
refunding of the PPF advance and the initial deposit into the Special Account
(para 3.23). The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1995. The IDA Credit will be disbursed against the following categories, and
on the basis of the estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 3-10).



- 25 -
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Amount       Percent
Category  Description                            (USS millions)    Financed
1      Civil and building                       4.10          1002 foreign
works, except sites and services,                      and 50% local
and demonstration houses
2      Design and supervision of                2.00          100o
all works
3      Sites and services and                   1.30          1002 foreign
demonstration houses                                   and 952 local
4      Equipment and materials                  1.90          100Z foreign
except for maintenance
operations
5      Technical assistance, including          4.30          1002
studies and audits
6      Local and external training              0.80          100o
courses, including
equipment and supplies
7      Road maintenance operations,             5.50
excluding salaries and wages:
-expenditures before                                  100% foreign
Jan. 1, 1991                                         and 50X local
-expenditures during 1991                             100% foreign
and 1992                                             25% local
-expenditures after Dec.31,1992                       100% foreign
8      Refunding of PPF Advance                 1.50          Amount due
9      Unallocated                              2.20
TOTAL           23.60
3.23      Disbursements for procurement of goods and works costing less than
US$20,000 equivalent will be made against statements of expenditures (SOE).
Other disbursements will be made against standard documentation. A Condition
of Disbursement for the sites and services component (Category 3) will be
fulfillment of requirements prescribed in paragraph 3.14 regarding agreed
criteria for allocations of plots and houses.   A revolving fund will be
established for IDA funds in a Special Account opened in foreign currency in
a commercial bank.  An advance of US$2.0 million from IDA funds into the
Special Account will be made after the Declaration of Effectiveness and upon
receipt of a duly authorized withdrawal application, to cover about four



- 26 -
months of project expenditures. Disbursements may be made from the Special
Account for all project expenditures eligible for IDA financing. The Special
Account will be replenished following applications for reimbursement by MES,
together with appropriate supporting documentation or SOEs, as well as bank
statements.  Reimbursement applications will be submitted to IDA whenever
accumulated  withdrawals  amount  to  US$200,000.        The  amount  of  IDA
replenishment will not exceed the authorized allocation.
3.24      Counterpart funds will be made available by the Government through
its budgetary allocations, and for road maintenance from the Road Fund. MES,
with assistance of PCU, will manage all accounting records and will prepare
supporting documentation and SOEs.
L. Reporting and Auditing
3.25      Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be
prep&red by PCU and sent to IDA within one month after the end of each
quarter.   These reports will include:  (a) progress achieved against the
agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key performance
indicators; (b) work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter, and
(c) statements for the special account.   Consultants engaged under the
project will prepare brief reports at the end of each month for the relevant
agency or department and will forward a copy to the PCU. The main purpose
of the reports will be to provide MES or SET managers timely and upcated
information on implementation of project components, highlighting issues and
problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on progress in resolvring
previous recommendations.   The PCU will also prepare a project completion
report in accordance with IDA guidelines.
3.26      External auditors, acceptable to IDA, will be engaged under the
project to carry out annual audits of the project as well as the Road Fund,
the Special Account, Bissau Municipality and the TCs.  Each Audit Report,
together with a management letter, will be sent to the association not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year. The management letter will
include observations and suggestions of the auditor regarding possible
improvements by each institution of its accounting and financial practices,
internal financial management and control and operating procedures.
Presently, there is no auditing of the TC's by the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
and the income tax is based on the expected profit. This is mainly due to
lack of qualified personnel at the MOF. The absence of standard accounting
procedures makes the auditing of company accounts more difficult. The MOF
is planning the creation of a Coordination Unit for public enterprises which
will also monitor state participation in semi-private companies.   It is
expected that an ongoing IDA-financed Public Enterprise Study will propose
guidelines for asset revaluation and standard accounting procedures. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the above reporting and auditing
requirements.   In addition,  each quarter the TCU in SET will examine
performance of the TCs relating to agreed operational and financial targets.
M.   Environmental Impact
3.27      A substantial segment of the project is devoted to road rehabilita-
tion and minor improvements which will have no adverse effect on the



- 27 -
environment, including Guinea-Bissau's forest reserves.   Road and street
works will result in the improvement of drainage in thi. ricinity and in the
restoration of drainage to natural channels and thus avoid erosion and
siltation. Wherever possible the proc irement of river vessels, road vehicles
and equipment will include appropriate environmental standards for that
equipment.    The  urban  component will have  a  positive  impact  on  the
environment by providing properly serviced housing plots and by improving
solid waste collection.   This should greatly  assist in diminishing  the
chances of further cholera outbreaks as occurred in October 1987. Contract
documents for road works will include provisions for protection of workers
against health risks, proper maintenance of construction camps and workshops,
and environmentally sound measures for disposal of construction materials and
draining of borrow areas. Feeder road improvements will be in agricultural
production areas to facilitate transport of produce and farm inputs; no
improvements have been planned for access to natural non-renewable resources,
such as firewood.
3.28       A survey of occupants of existing dwellings will be carried out by
the TO in parallel with the detailed design of the sites and services
ccmponent (para 3.14).  As previously agreed under SIRP, a socio-economic
evaluation of the impact of this component, including a tenure plan for
present area residents and, if necessary, a resettlement plan in conformity
with Bank guidelines, will be completed before any civil works start on the
sites. At negotiations agreement was reached that the results of the survey
will be sent for IDA review by December 31, 1990, together with an action
plan for implementation, including any necessary resettlement. Annex 3-11
outlines the terms of reference for the survey.
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.         RODOFLUVIAL
4.01       Financial management of RODOFLUVIAL improved significantly with the
technical assistance over 18 months program provided under the Bissau Port
Project. Management focussed on optimizing the utilization of an aging road
and river fleet, increasing staff productivity, improving maintenance
facilities and setting up a general and cost accounting system. These goals
were, by and large, achieved.  RODOFLUVIAL's .ianagement, unlike other TCs,
can now produce timely financial statements and annual budgets and assess the
profitability of each of the components of its fleet. Effective on-the-job
training has also produced several Guinean counterparts which can now take
over most of the management and accounting positions with minimal technical
assistance.
4.02       Despite all the improvements mentioned above, Rodofluvial's aging
road and river fleets remain the main obstacle to bringing it to
profitability. Although the company is financially self-sufficient, showing
good liquidity ratios (8.7 in 1986, 22 in 1987), in 1987 it had a net loss
after taxes of G Peso 107 million. Cash flow has, however, increased from
G Peso 38.5 million in 1986 to 161 million in 1987, despite the loss in
operations. Unlike other enterprises in Bissau, RODOFLUVIAL has revalued its
assets as a function of the devaluation of the GP in relation to the US
dollar.   There are no standard criteria for asset revaluation  from the



- 28 -
Minister of Finance, and there was no external auditing of RODOFLUVIAL's
finances. Average collection periods have deteriorated from 1.4 months in
1986 to 1.8 months in the first six months of 1988; RODOFLUVIAL does not have
any long-term debts.
4.03       RODOFLUVIAL's future  performance will depend on its  ability  to
reduce operating costs and on the growth of traffic transported per unit of
the fleet. The investment plan calls for the replacement of its aging road
and river fleets by smaller more fuel-efficient urits adapted to the demand
characteristics of Guinea Bissau, in order to reduce the down time presently
caused by frequent breakdowns, increase utilization and lower operating
costs.   The investment plana is estimated  at G Peso  3,241 million  (US$4
million equivalent) over the 1989-1993 period. Financing under the project
amount ing to a base cost of US$1.8 million will be required for workshop
assistance through TCU in SET, and procurement of ten trucks and one Unal
barge; the remainder will be funded through operating profits.
4.04       Based on discussions with RODOFLUVIAL's management the following
production and financial targets were set for the enterprise:
PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL TARGETS FOR RODOFLUVIAL
PRODUCTION TARGETS      1988    1987    1988    1989    19S0    1991    1992    1993
River Freight
TKm (millions)          2.74    2.48    2.76    8.00    3.15    3.31    3.64  4.00
X Annual Growth Rate            (9.49)  11.29    8.70    5.00    6.08    9.97    9.89
River Passenger.
PKm (millions)          0.78    6.30    6.52    7.00    8.00    9.00    9.27    9.56
. Annual Growth Rate           (12.38)  26.81   33.33   14.29   12.$0    3.00    3.02
Road Freight
TKm (millIons)          1.22    1.3J    1.44    1.80    1.93    2.12    2.33    2.61
N Annual Growth Rate            10.66    6.67   26.00    7.22    9.84    9.91   12.01
FINANCIAL TARGETS
Return on Net
Assets                (S.10)   (5.2C)  (7.00)   4.20    3.70    1.70    3.70       410
Operating Ratio         1.17    1.20    1.16    0.86    0.82    0.80    0.77    0.73
Working Ratio           0.75    0.67    0.76    0.50    0.49    0.49    0.48    0.46
Deb/Eauity Ratio       0/100   0/100   0/100    7/93   14/86   24/76   19/81   24/78
Debt Service Coverage    1.09    1.09    1.09    1.09    1.07    1.05    1.06    1.00
4.05        Summary financial projections for the 1989-1993 period are shown
below.  The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) and economic rate of
return (ERR) of the proposed investment are estimated at 26 percent and 25
percent respectively. Details of RODOFLUVIAL's investment plan and financial
analysis (1986-93), income statement and economic evaluation are provided in
the project file.



- 29 -
SUNUARY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR RODOFLUVIAL
(Unit: Millions of GP)
1986   1987   1986   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993
Rovenues           163    506    894    910    980   1,066   1,165  1,262
Net Incom Before
Taxes             (30)   (107)   (156)    108   11       62    124    164
Net Ineme After
Taxes             (30)   (107)   (166)   108    11S       62      46     33
Current Asset*      63    191    379    299    322    348    660    416
Current Liabilities    7    9      41      S8    100    165    363    399
Working Capital    56    182    a83    241    222    183    207           1s
Net Fixed Aosets   594   2,048   2,214   2,809   3,012   3,643   3,358   3,e12
Owner's Equity     650   2,230   2,562   2,660   2,772   2,834   2,879   2,913
Medium/Long-Torm Debt  0    0       0     190    462    892    686    915
InvestAents        662     22      10    714    721    682    162    792
B.   SILO DIATA
4.06      SILO DIATA is presently almost paralyzed sincc only nine of its
25 vehicles are in service (para 2.13). The technical assistance provided
under the Bissau Port Project was able to keep a manual general accounting
system going, but no counterparts were adequately trained to rarry on with
this simple system; the low level of salaries paid by SILO DIATA made it
impossible to retain or to hire qualified candidates.   Traffic statistics
are unreliable, insufficient and produced too late to be used for managerial
purposes.
4.07      Technically, SILO DIATA is bankrupt, with a loss of US$774,000 in
1987. The net loss, which was 1.2 times the revenues in 1985, was already
5.2 times the 1987 revenues. This is explained by the fact that the majority
of the debts are in foreign exchange, normally US dollars.   Due "o the
devaluation of the G Peso in relation to the US dollar (US$1 = 124 G Peso in
December 1984 to US$1 = 811 G Peso in December 1987) the debt has ballooned
out of proportion. In addition, the revenues decreased considerably due to
the low availability of vehicles in the fleet, which was clearly inadequate
for the country and the type of services which SILO DIATA must offer.
4.08      A PPF financed study examined several alternatives for SILO DIATA's
future, including the total liquidation of the company.   Two alternatives
called for the rehabilitation of SILO DIATA's fleet and the infusion of
technical assistance for management and maintenance, and spare parts over a
period of two years. In alternative one, SILO DIATA would only operate urban
services i- and around Bissau and one international line to Dakar.   In
alternat'.ve two, SILO DIATA would continue to operate its urban, intercity
and interiuitional services. The possibility of liquidating SILO DIATA was
abandoned because, based on a transport survey, it was felt that there are
no short-te-.im, viable, private sector alternatives to replace it.   Urban
fares, whica cost 200 GP per trip, are high when compared with a monthly
salary of 18,000 GP (salary of a bus driver) and it is unrealistic to expect
private taxis (candongas) to provide such service for a lesser fare. In view
of the high number of private entrepreneurs operating intercity services, and



- 30 -
the fact that SILO DIATA would not be financially viable if it continues to
provide such services, consultants recommended that SILO PIATA: (a) cease
intercity operations and close down its subsidiaries at Bafata, Canchungo ar,'
Buba, and (b) restrict its operations to urban services and one international
service to Dakar. The latter will provide hard currency which the company
needs to buy spare parts. The financial analysis of alternative one suggests
that SILO DIATA would be able to return to profitability with urban tariffs
of 150 GP (at US$1 = G. Peso 1,125) per trip through the sale of 10 ticket
passes, and will not require any subsidies from the Government, even with a
conservative traffic estimate. Consequently, to allow SILO DIATA to function
properly and fulfill the role of urban transport which is badly needed in
Bissau, the company will have to be restructured financially and technically.
Its debt  is to be assumed by Government,  its assets  revalued and an
investment program for rehabilitation of its maintenance facilities and buses
undertaken. In parallel, assistance to SILO DIATA will be provided under the
project through TCU in SET for workshop remodelling and management over a
period of 18 months, as well as for on-the-job training of staff.   SILO
DIATA's restructuring is expected to be completed during this period, with
participation of the private sector.
4.09      Based on the above assumptions,  the production and financial
targets that have been agreed for SILO DIATA, are summarized as follows:
PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL TARGETS FOR SILO DIATA
PRODUCTION TARGETS         1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
Urban Transport
Passengers                 3,140     7,150      7,150     7,150      7,150
PKm (1000)                12,560    28,600    28,600    28,600    28,600
Int. Transport
Passengers                 2,000     4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000
PK (1000)                  1,680     3,120     3,120      3,120     3,120
FINANCIAL TARGETS
Return on Net Assets (Z)  (2.31)    0.24        0.09      2.90       5.12
Operating Ratio             1.44     0.95       0.96      0.77       0.67
Working Ratio              0Q56      0.43       0.44      0.46       0.46
Deb/Equity Ratio           56/44    45155      29/75     0/100      0/100
Debt Service Coverage       1.04     0.90       0.88      0.85       1.05
4.10      From these targets, and based on assumptions that have been agreed
for SILO DIATA, the summary of financial projections for the 1989-1993 period
are shown below. The investment plan is estimated at G Peso 1,831 million
(US$1.5 million equivalent) over the 1989-1993 period.  Financing will be
required under the project amounting to a base cost of about US$0.9 million
for a support vehicle, spare parts and workshop remodelling and mechanical
assistance over 18 months through TCU in SET; the remainder will be financed
through operating profits. The FIRR and the ERR on the investment package
proposed are estimated at 19 percent and 13 percent respectively.   The
economic evaluation for SILO DATA is conservative because it does not include



- 31 -
time savings and the impact of reduced work absenteeism.   Details of SILO
DIATA's investmient plan (1989-1993), its balance sheets (1986-1993) and
financial statement are provided in the project file.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR SILO DIATA
(Unit: Millions of G4')
1986    1987   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992   1993
Revenues                66      132            375    838   838    836    838
Net Income            (113)   (699)  (306)  (152)    20        6    172    282
Current Assets          70       99     53      98    228   245    223    137
Current Liabilities   228       668    129      15    432   433    436       68
Working Capital       (158)   (569)   (76)    84   (203) (187)  (213)    69
Net Fixed Assets       178      156  1,195  2,104  2,003 1,588  1,378  1,378
Owner's Equity        (134)   (832) 1,119    967    986   993  1,165  1,447
Medium/
Long-Term Debt         153      419      0  1,220    814   408        0       0
Investments              0        0      0  1,237    340    26       52    176
C. JAPG
4.11      JAPG has received considerable technical assistance under the
Bissau Port Project. The results of this assistance were mixed because of
lack of coordination, delays in provision of handling equipment, inadequate
performance of the experts, and indifferent support from SET. Nevertheless,
the general accounting was set up, and financial statements for 1987 and a
budget for 1989 were also produced. Technical assistance will be provided
under the project for two years through TCU in SET to provide the necessary
continuity and train JAPG counterparts, to provide workshop assistance and
to assist JAPG to reorient its management practices (para 4.13).
4.12      JAPG posted a net income of G Peso 19 million in 1987, but was
projecting a loss of G Peso 117 million in 1988. Liquidity ratio was 1.8 -n
1987 and the debt/equity ratio was 15/85. JAPG has not done a revaluation
of its assets.   The cash flow was 60 percent of its operating expenses.
Average collection periods arre very high (8.3 months); this is mainly due to
payment arrears from GUINEMAR, the national shipping agency, which accounts
for 30 percent of JAPG's revenues (para 2.34). GUINEMAR's average payment
period to JAPG went from 5.5 to 12.6 months in 1987.   The average stock
period was 16.1 months in 1987. The net income in 1987 was G Peso 3 million
or only 0.3 percent return on sales.   The net income after extraordinary
gains was, however, G Peso 19 million due to exchange rate gains of about G
Peso 24 million, which offset losses from previous years of about G Peso 8
million.
4.13      To  improve  its  financial  performance,  JAPG  needs  a  drastic
reduction of its operating costs by increasing the productivity of staff, by
improving the handling rates and by changing its management orientation. The



- 32 -
intention of SET is to transform JAPG into a public company and to assist it
in entering into a management contract with an entity experienced in port
operations.
4.14      Based on discussions with the present maz.agement and on the above-
mentioned program, the following production and financial targets were set
for JAPG:
PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL TARGETS FOR JAPG
PRODUCTION TARGETS            1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Non Regular Freight Ships
Number                           57    62    74    83    93   104   116   130
Z Annu-al Growth                --      8.8  19.4  12.2  12.0  11.8  11.5  12.1
Regular Freight Ships
Number                          30    39    49    56    65    75    86    99
Z Annual Growth                 --    30.0  25.6  14.3   5.1  15.4  14.7  15.1
Tankers
Number                            6    15    15    16    17    17    18    19
Z Annual Growth                 --    15.0   0.0   6.7   6.3   0.0   5.9   5.6
Fishing Ships
Number                         129   225   350   385   424   466   512   564
% Annual Growth                 --    74.4  55.6  10.1  10.1   9.9   9.9  10.2
Port Activity
Tons (1000), other
than POL                       99   126   150   165   182   200   221   244
Z of Annual Growth              --    27.3  19.0  10.0  10.3   9.9  10.5  10.4
Productivity Gains
Hours of Waiting/Ship           48    86    60    51    43    37    31    27
Hours in Berth/Ship            130   160   160   147   135   125   116   107
FINANCIAL TARGETS
Net Return on Assets      --     1.21 -1.93 -0.04  0.53  0.75  1.38  2.21
Operating Ratio           --     1.00  0.74  0.76  0.68  0.65  0.61  0.57
1.torking Ratio           --      0.42  0.31  0.23  0.22  0.21  0.20  0.20
Debt/Equity Ratio         --    85/15 81/19 85/15 83/17 81/19 79/21 75/25
Debt Service Coverage    --      1.31  1.43  0.99  0.98  0.97  0.97  0.98
Tariff Increase (real terms)
Parking Tax (X)                               0.0 +10.1  +9.0  +9.3  +8.8
Berth Tax                                     0.0  +8.0  +7.7  +7.4   7.1
4.15     From these targets, and based on assumptions that have been agreed
for JAPG, the summary financial projections for the 1989-1993 period are
given below,  details of which are provided in the project file.   The
investment plan proposed over the 1989-1993 period is estimated at G Peso
1.8 million ;US$1.5 million equivalent). The investment plan includes the
port handling equipment which is to be provided with financing from BADLA.
Assistance will be required under the project, to manage the workshops
through TCU in SET, for an eighteen month period. Within this period JAPG
is expected to have entered into a management contract.   The remaining



- 33 -
investments will be financed through operating profits. The FIRR on the
proposed investment package is estimated at 33 percent, and the ERR is
estimated at 43 percent.   Detai1s of JAPB's balance  sheet and income
statements (1987-93), economic evaluation and estimated operating results
(1988-89) are provided in the project file. Financial projections are
summarized b(low:
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR JAPG
(Unit: Millions of GP)
1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Revenues              919   2,278   3,761.  4,227   4,652   5,134   5,674
Net Income
Before Taxes          19   (117)   (12)       217      604   1,051   1,580
Net Income
After Taxes           19   (117)   (12)       160      211     368      553
Currents
Assets               825   2,274   1,882   1,815   1,561   1,660   1,914
Current
Liabilities          455     459   2,345   2,373   2,398   2,428   2,460
Working Capital       369   1,815   (463)   (558)   (838)   (768)   (546)
Net Fixed Asset    1,176   4,258  32,622  30,781  29,176  27,378  25,613
Owner's Equity      1,319   4,929   4,917   5,07,   5,288   5,656   6,209
Mediumi
Long-Term Debt       226   1,144  27,242  25,146  23,050  20,954  18,858
Investments           267     264  30,310      116     410      240     380
D. TAGB
4.16     Based on available information, consultants (paras 2.18 and 2.33)
estimated that TAGB regional services lost the equivalent of US$408,500 in
1988. Since 64 percent of revenues 'n the regional service are in foreign
exchange, while 90 percent of the expenses incurred are in hard currency, the
loss for the country was estimated at over US$600,000. The intercontinental
link with Lisbon and Paris, which is undertaken in association with EAS, lost
an estimated US$1,320,000 from June to December 1988 and approximately
US$445,000 between January and April 1989.  From June 1988 to April 1989,
TAGB's share of these losses amounted to US$881,700.  The loss in foreign
exchange is, however, estimated at US$1,200,000 since 33 percent of TAGB
revenues  in  this  link  are  in  pesos.    Overall,  with  regional  and
intercontinental services included, consultants estimated that TAGB was
losing an average US$150,000 per month.   The estimated recent operating
results of TAGB up to April 1989 and a preliminary balance sheet at end-1988
for TAGB are provided in the project file.  This balance sheet was estimated
by technical assistance, financed through the PPF, to set up an accounting
system Lor TAGB.
4.17     Since mid-1989, formal agreement between TAGB and EAS has lapsed,
but the intercontinental operation continues to be run by EAS with the
understanding that all revenues and expenses in foreign exchange are the



- 34 -
responsibility of EAS, while all revenues and expenses in G. Pesos are the
responsibility of TAGB. ThL Government affirmed during negotiations that the
present arrangement with EAS was not causing foreign exchange losses to
Guinea Bissau, and that EAS would have the right to cease operations at any
time; flights were reported to be at a high load factor. At negotiations it
was agreed that, until the change in TAGB's reorganization is effective
(paras 2.18 and 3.09): (a) the Government will not enter into any new
agreements with EAS or any other airlines for international or regional
services; and (b) TAGB will not expand its regional services beyond the
present weekly schedule of two flights to Dakar, one to Conakry and one to
Praia. It was also agreed that the cost of air tickets on TAGB flights will
remain at the same level as competing airlines: Guinean nationals purchasing
tickets in Guinea Bissau to pay in G. Pesos at the current exchange rate, and
foreign nationals to pay in foreign currency.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Economic Returns
5.01     The main benefit of the transport sector components under the
project would be a more efficient and cost-effective transport system that
would permit a higher level of economic activity in the country. The project
would remove physical and regulatory constraints in transport, reduce
transportation costs for goods and passengers, increase port productivity and
will effectively help exports, farm production and marketing, and the
mobility of people.  Moreover, it will enhance the efforts started under
previous projects in training of skilled and semi-skilled personnel.  The
main benefits of the urban component would result from a significant
improvement of overall sanitary and environmental conditions through more
efficient solid waste collection, as well as from a major contribution to
raising the living conditions of the poorer segments of the urban population
in both Bissau and secondary centers through the continuing support for
sites-and-services operations and the implementation of demonstration
projects for low-cost housing solutions. The quantifiable benefits, mainly
transport components will be based on transport cost savings due to road and
river crossing improvements.
5.02     The project will produce other substantial benefits which are
difficult to quantify, and will also directly contribute to poverty
alleviation.   Some of these intangible benefits are as follows: (i) rural
road rehabilitation, and possible promotion of more sustainable and
affordable low-cost forms of transport, will particularly assist the poorer
sections of society in reducing transportation costs, in improving farm
productivity and in reducing head-loading which is a burden generally carried
by women and children; (ii) employment creation both directly in road works
and maintenance, and indirectly through expansion of farming and other
economic activities.   Above all, the project will provide a contribution
towards creating in Guinea Bissau the human resources needed to operate and
maintain transport and urban infrastructure.
5.03     The economic rate of return (ERR)  for road rehabilitation and
maintenance components (about 59 percent of project cost) is estimated at 54
percent, ranging from 82 percent for paved roads to 30 percent for unpaved



- 35 -
roads (Annex 5-1). Based on the computations made for a similar component
included in the SIRP, the ERR for the servicing of housing plots (sites-and-
services) will evolve around 25 percent.   The estimated ERRs for the
investment programs of the public transport companies to be assisted under
the project are given in Chapter IV:  the ERR of RODOFLUVIAL's investment
package is estimated at 25 percent and JAPG's investment package shows an
estimated ERR of 43 percent, while SILO DIATA's is estimated at 13 percent.
The overall ERR estimated for about 72 percent of project costs is about 48
percent, with a net present value (NPV) of about US$33 million at a 12
percent discount rate (Annex 5-2).
B. Project Risks
5.04     The project has been designed to reduce transport costs in Guinea
Bissau, to stimulate the private sector involved in infrastructure works and
transportation, to contribute to poverty alleviation by providing better
access to agricultural production areas, and to improve urban er.vironments
through improved solid waste collection and making available serviced housing
plots for a large segment of the population. The main risks are: (a) non-
compliance with the agreed transport policy and managerial and financial
restructuring of TCs;   (b) Government's reluctance to facilitate private
sector participation in works and transportation; and (c) delays in project
implementation due to constraints in the absorptive capacity of MES.
5.05     The Government has given its commitment to the implementation of the
transport policy and has agreed to measures to select and fund infrastructure
projects with emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance programs.
Furthermore, detailed action plans will be prepared for private participation
in each of the public transport companies and agreement has been reached on
operational and financial targets for each of the TCs, as well as criteria
for adjusting their tariffs periodically.  The establishment of a Project
Coordination Unit in MES and a Transport Coordination Unit in SET will ensure
that implementation of this multi-faceted project is well managed and that
performance of TCs are constantly monitored. The Technical Office in MES,
set up under SIRP, will provide expertise for design and supervision of works
and management of road maintenance under the project, and the comprehansivt
training program will better prepare personnel in the public and private
sectors to undertake the various jobs made available in the infrastructure
sectors.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS RE&CHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations,  agreement was reached or confirmed on the
following points:
(a)   Implementation of the Transport Policy (para 2.03);
(b)   Terms of reference for inviting international aviation companies to
create a new aviation compar.y in Guinea Bissau (para 2.18);
(c)   Preparation of an action plan for Bissau Municipality by June 30,
1991 (para 2.22);
(d)   The 1990-92 infrastructure sectors investment program as well as:
(a) preparation for IDA review by September 30 of each year until
completion of the project, of three year rolling urban and transport
investment plans, as well as annual budgets for the coming fiscal
year, and physical and financial performances of the previous fiscal
year; (b) ensure that infrastructure sector rehabilitation and
maintenance programs have priority over new construction and
upgrading; (c) only undertake infrastructure investments with
estimated ERR greater than 12 percent; and (d) agree with IDA any
proposed investment over US$1.0 million equivalent (para 2.28);
(e)   Measures to (a) raise or establish specific taxes on road users,
(b) improve collection of road user charges and timeliness of
deposits in the Road Fund (RF), and (c) increase RF revenues to
cover 20 percent of programmed road maintenance through 1990, 30
percent in 1991 and 1992, 40 percent in 1993 and 1994, and 50
percent thereafter (para 2.30);
(f)   Operational and financial targets for each of the public transport
companies, and criteria for adjusting periodically their tariffs
(para 2.31);
(g)   Government to actively continue discussions with private companies
to form a viable bus company (para 2.32);
(h)   Restructuring of GUINEMAR by June 30, 1991, and for GUINEMAR to
repay by June 30, 1990 all debts to JAPG as of March 1, 1990, and
to repay all future bills owed to JAPG within a period of four
months of the date of billing (para 2.34);
(i)   New transport regulations (para 2.36);
(j)   Terms of Reference for technical assistance (para 3.06);
(k)   By March 31, 1991, the Government to present IDA with specific
action plans for involving private participation in each of the TCs;
changes required in ownership or management of the TCs to be
implemented by January 1, 1992 (para 3.09);
(1)   Outline of Participation Agreements with TCs (para 3.18);



- 37 -
(m)   Reporting and auditing requirements, and quarterly reviews by the
TCU in SET of performance of each TC relating to agreed operational
and financial targets (para 3.26);
(n)   By December 31, 1990, the results of the survey of occupants of
existing dwellings on land under the sites and services component
to be sent for IDA review, together with an action plan for
implementation, including any necessary resettlement (para 3.28);
and
(o)   Until TAGB's reorganization is effective, the Government will not
enter into any new agreements with EAS or other airlines, and TAGB
will not expand its regional services; the cost of air tickets on
TAGB flights to be at the same level as competing airlines (para
4.17).
6.02     The Conditions of Effectiveness are as follows:
(a)   Undertake measures satisfactory to the Association to enable an
increase in revenues for the Road Fund to cover agreed amounts for
road maintenance expenditures (para 2.30);
(b)   Implementation of the revised system for adjusting tariffs for each
public transport company (para 2.31);
(c)   Assumption  of  SILO  DIATA's  foreign  debt  by  the  Government
(para 2.32);
(d)   Publication of new transport regulations (para 2.36); and
(e)   Appointment of the coordinator, accountant and training advisor for
the Project Coordination Unit in MES (para 3.04);
(f)   Participation Agreements between MES and each TC (para 3.18).
6.03     The Condition of Disbursement  for the sites and services and
demonstration houses (Category 3) will be agreement upon the criteria to be
used to allocate the plots and houses (para 3.23).
6.04     Subject to the above agreements and conditions,  the project is
suitable for a Credit to the Government of Guinea Bissau in the amount of SDR
18.5 million (US$23.6 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms.
AFTIN
November 6, 1989



- 38 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Policy - Summary of Key Principles
The Ministry of Social Equipment (MES) and its State Secretariat
of Transport (SET) have prepared and adopted a Transport Policy which defines
the objectives of the transport sector in Guinea Bissau and the strategy
proposed to attain them. The main objective of the Transport Policy can be
summarized as the provision of low-cost transport for the movement of goods
and passengers in the country in support of all   other sectors of the
economy, at the lowest cost to the taxpayer. To attain such an objective the
following key principles were adopted.
A.   Infrastructure
(i)       Emphasis  on  rehabilitation  and  maintenance  of  existing
infrastructure rather than on construction of new facilities;
(ii)      Adoption of economic criteria (at least 12X for the estimated
rate of return - ERR) for any proposed investment;
(iii)     Preparation of three-year rolling plans for investment in the
sector with proper economic evaluation of each of the proposed
projects and of the overall annual program.
B.   Operations and Maintenance of Equipment
(i)       Strengthening of transport operations in the various modes by
the training of Guinean nationals to gradually assume
positions occupied by expatriates;
(ii)      Adoption of spare part policies which will maximize  the
availability of existing equipment; and of scheduling and
marketing policies which will maximize the utilization of such
equipment;
(iii)     Strengthening of the maintenance function in all modes by
rehabilitating   and   modernizing    existing   workshops,
facilitating the access to spare parts and hiring technical
assistance, whenever required, to take full advantage of such
facilities.
C.   Management
(i)       Promote   commercially-oriented   management   of   transport
companies (TCs) and emphasize the principle of financial self-
sufficiency;
(ii)      Adopt cost recovery policies,  including cost-based tariffs
which. are frequently updated to account for inflation and
devaluation of the currency;



- 39 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
(iii)     Encourage the gradual takeover of existing TCs by the private
sector either through public bids or by joint ventures which
will ensure a commercial orientation;
(iv)      Preparation of annual operational and financial targets for
the TCs with a provision for government budget compensation
when the Government decides to impose a social tariff;
(v)       Training of Guinean Managers who would be gradually twinned
with the technical assistance and would eventually replace the
latter.
D.   Financial Management and Accountability
(i)       Strengthen the financial management of the TCs and their
accounting procedures;
(ii)      Audit annually the accounts of the TCs;
(iii)     Promote the financial restructuring of TCs which provide
services that cannot be immediately replaced by the private
sector;
(iv)      Liquidate TCs  for which there  is an economically  viable
private sector alternative.
E.   Regulatory Aspects
(i)       Promote a policy of quasi-deregulation  in the sector by
decreasing the Government's interference in the following
areas:
- market entry
- licensing
- route reguiation
- tariff setting and updating;
(ii)      Encourage the participation of the private sector by gralually
introducing tariff deregulation whenever there is sufficient
competition between private transporters;
(iii)     Facilitate access to foreign exchange for the acquisition of
spare parts;
(iv)      Enact strict safety regulations to prevent the increase of
transport accidents.
F.   Donor Coordination
(i)       Promote donor coordination meetings with participation of
bilateral and multilateral organizations.



Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-4SSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHASILITATION PROJECT
Status of the Road Network In 1907
Paved       Latert.               Earth Roade
Province.          Condition            Roads         Roads           modern        Normal         Total
,  __= *_=
North
km      X     km     X       km      X      km     X      km      X
Good                151     48      -      -       6    100      -      -     156      16
Fair                 52     17     15    100       -     -       -      -      67       7
Poor                111     35     -       -       -            691    100    802      78
Subtotal  814    100      15    100       5    100    691    100   1026    100
East
Good                 51     s0    114      77      -     -       -      -      l65     17
Fair                 90     54     24      16      I    100             -     122       3
Poor                 27     16     10       7      -     -      625    100    662      70
Subtotal 168    100    148    100         S    100    625    100    949    100
South             0
-                   oCod                10     19     -       -       -     -       -      -       10      2
Fair                  -     -      60      57      7    100       4      1      71     11
Poor                 52     61     45      43      -     -      404     99    581      87
Subtotal  62    100    lO    100         7    100    488    100    862    100
Overall Network
_______________   Good                212      39    114     43       6   .26       -      -     331      13
Fair                142     26     99 3n    7     16     76       4     -     260      10
.Poor               190      a5    56      20      -      -    1600    100   2046       77
Total     644    100    266    100      20    100   1804    100   2636    100
* sou--====
Source:IIES.
J



- 41 -                          Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 2
Road Condition and Traffic Vowums
A.   Paved Road.
TraffIc Volum_ (vpo)
Road Condition           60             s0 - 100           100 - 260               260
- = _5=
Ocod               19 km              S1 km              180 km              lb km
Fair               23 km               -                   2 km                  km
Poor               93 km              18 km               26km              47km
D.  Unpaved Roads
Traffic Volum (vpd)
Road Condition            10              10  - W           s  - 100               100
Cood                 -7 km                                48 km                -
Fai;;               14 km             248 km              78 km             24 km
Poor               662 km             eo3 km             324 km             19 km
Source: Consultant'. Report, December 1M



Annex 2-3
-42 -                      Page I of 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
JAPG: PORT OF BISSAU TRAFFIC IN 1986 AND 1987
----------------------------------------------
(in metric tons)
A. IMPORTS
PRODUCT                                 1986              1987          VARIATION
19861198
RICE                                  24,992            42,296          +  69
FLOUR                                  3,067             6,261           + 115
GRAIN, SORGHUH                         1,782       .    1,067            -  40
SALT                                  . -
SUGAR                                  1,666             4,867          + 192
CEMENT                                18,941            17,596           -   7
PETROLEUM                              1,697            33,558      .   +  95
TOTAL                                 96,039.          129,393           +  35
B. EXPORTS
PRODUCT                                 1986              198-7          VARIATION
1986/198
CASHEW NUTS                            5,922             7,098           +  20
TIMBER                                 3,177             4,324          + -36
GROUND NUTS                .           2,051             3,294           +  61
PALM-DEMDEN.                           7,606             5,384           - 29
TOTAL                                 19,978            23,411           +  17



Annex 2-4
- 43 -                         Page 1 of 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
1990-92 Infrastructure Sectors Investment Program
Proj.                            Source of               US$ Millions
No.      Description            Financing          Total 90   91   92
P17/18    Bissau-Prabis-Biombo  BADEA, SF,
KF                 16.0  2.0  2.8  6.n
P20       Bambadinca-Buba        AfDB, IDB          18.6  3.5  3.8  4.0
P22       S. Vicente-MPack       EDF/Italy           18.7  3.2  3.0  4.0
P54       Mampata-Fronteira      IDB                  0.2  0.2  -    -
P25       Second Roads Project
(Cr.1473-GUB)         IDA, KF            13.6  1.5  -    -
T30       IRP (excl. maint.)    IDA, others          33.8  7.4  9.6  7.2
-         SIRP (infrast.only)   IDA, others         11.4  1.7  4.2  5.5
A25        N.r. Rural Roads       EDF                 3.0  1.5  1.5  -
A27        N. Rural Roads         SIDA                1.2  0.4  0.4  0.4
P53       S. Rural Road          UNDP                 0.9  0.-3  0.3  0.3
P26       Secondary Bridges      EDF                  5.5  1.0  2.5  2.0
T28       Bissau Port Equip.    BADEA                 2.5  1.5  0.5
T5        New.Bissau Port         SF, OPEC, KF       19.6  1.0  -    -
T8A79/12  Bissau and River
Ports                  IDA                21.5  1.4  -    -
T32       Bissau Airports        AfDB                 4.5  1.5  1.5  1.1
T31       Nat. Meteorological
Service                UNDP                1.&  0.5  0.4  -
P70       Bissau Sewerage        AfDB                 8.3  1.1  1.6  2.0
P9        Bairros Improvement   Holland               2.9  0.3  0.3  0.3
P60       House Construction    Holland               0.6  0.1  0.1  0.1
TOTAL      30.1 32.5 31.9
Source:  MES



- 44 -                                    Annsx  2-5
Page 1 of 4
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. ROAD TOILS
(in C Peso)
TOLLS                               TYPES OF VEHICLE                       TOLLS
_____.._____________________
NORMAL            SPECIAL
JUGUDUL-BAMBADINCA                  LIGHT                            200               400
MIXED                           340                600
HEAVY - 2 AXLES                2000               4000
HEAVY - 3 AXLES               10000              20000
BAFATA                              LICHT                            100                200
MIXED                           200                400
HEAVY - 2 AXLES                1000               2000
HEAVY - 3 AXLES                6000              10000
S. STRUCTURE OF FUEL PRICES
(in 0 Po o/liter)
MAY 1988                          JANUARY 1989
GASOLINE          DIESEL    .       GASOLINE           DIESEL
CIF PRICES                      173                1 6               216                160
TAXATION
CUSTOM DUTIES                   108                  9               129                46
CENERAL TAX                       9                  9                11                  8
TRAFFIC TAX                      62                  8                66                  8
ROAD FUND TAX                     9                  -                11                  -
CONSUWTION TAX                  140                                  264                  -
(AD VALOREM)
SUB TOTAL.                      313                 26               481                 62
DISTRIBJTION COSTS               as       68                                            se 8
PROFIT                           61                  6                6S                10
CONSMER PRICE                   605                275               680                300
($US   a C Peo 1118)                ($US 3 0 Peso 1460)
Sourc-: MES, DICOL



Annex  2-3
5 -                              Page 2 of 4
C. Evolution of tho Fleet
1904     1065      1906     1067      1006     1909      1990      1001     1002      1993
Gasoline poeorod vehicles
- Light  - Government        176       197      212       218      2J2       247       202      279       297      317
- Private           528      547       572      607       685       760      764      16CC     2570      4360
- IT * CD           132      194       205      216       220       242      257       272      289       308
Subtotal          633      938       909     1041      1090     1249      1304      2107     31CO      4976
- Hevy  - Governont           16        15       1S        11         9        7         7        7         6         6
- Private             6        5         4        4         4         4        3         a         2        1
- IT * CD             J        2         2         2        2         2        1         1         1        1
Subtotal           26       22        19        17       15        1J       11        11         9        7
Total     914       9060    1008      1056      1111     1262      1316     2110      3166     4982
Diesel Powered Vehicles
- Light  - Governmnt         333       404      462       014      722       349       0"0     1118      1252     1402
- Private           0C1     1255      1614     1904      2556      3997     4710      5610     6268      6126
- IT * CD           282      358       483      603       761       675     1003      1157     1273      1400
Subtotal         1516     2012      2579     3121      4089      5271     6714      7765     6813      8928
- Heavy  - Government        126       149      174       1906      232      269       312      349       891      437
- Private           047     1054      1116     18O7      1492      1707     1916      21609    2503      2840
- IT + CD           1C8      176       221      260       200       272      276       284      304       325
Subtotal         1220     1379      1510     1757      1090      2246     2560      2802     310       3602
Totol    2744      3j91     4089      4376     6029      7190    0"20    10567    12011    12530
D.   Evolution of Annual Registration of Vehicles
1964     19865    196       1907      1993     1909      1990     1991      1992      1993
Covernment                   153       102       128      134       161      170       192      216       244       274
Private                      027       809       867      462       636     1031      142S     1378      2406      3022
Temporary rmport             160       i8n       100      135       169      174       182     10        194       206
Diplomatic Corps              43        60        60       38        22       3S        39       28        42        36
Total     692       710      744       689      1204     1408      1836     2313      2886     3538
Source:MES.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~



GUINEA BISSAU: INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
,  ==== 3= =-== ==== ===                      ========4===_=
E. EVOLUTION OF ANNUAL FUEL CONSUMPTION
(1000  liters)
-----------------------------------------.-------------------------__--------__----------------------------------
1984        1986         1988         1987         1988          1989         19"0         1991         1992         1993
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------------------------
QASOI NE
-    SUPER                           3817        4349         4461         4374         6663  *       7666         9436        11499        13966       18796
-   NORMAL                          2372         1509           752         -            -              -           -            -            -
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------------------------
TOTAL GASOLINE    8189               5858        5203         4374         8553 *         7655        9436        11490        13996        1670O
DIESEL  ("ASOIL)
-   VEHICLES                       11158.       12484        12325        14401        16038  *    189020         20615       23475        27180        32390
-   ENERGY                          8304         7059         5626         8398       1O"O6   a
TOTAL DIESEL           19522       19534        178560       22799        26638 U
* Provisional  Values
Sourc-:  MES,  DICOL
F. ROAD FUND ADMINISTRATION COSTS
----------------------------------
(C Pasos million)
--------------------------------------------------------------__----
TYPE OF COST                         1989        1990        .1991         1992         1993
SEVICES                              13.0        16.3         29.3         62.7         94.9
STAFF                                18.2        31.2         56.2        101.2       182.2
AMORTIZATION                          2.4          2.5          2.6          2.5         2.5
OTHERS                                1.0          1.6          2.8         5.1          9.2
TOTAL  IN C  PESOS X 196             32.8        61.5         90.8        161.6       288.8                                                                                 : 
TOTAL IN US* X 1s 3                  22.6        35.5         62.6        111.4       199.2
1 US$ = 0  Peso  1460                                                                                                                                                    t
Sourco:   MES                                                                                                                                                            J-



CVINEA 01S^
ItRASTRICTLE REHABILITAT ION PROJECT
G.  S;a ston of Rood f.nd Ruwunu. (1969-19931
-        -  19t99 --------------      ------------- 1990 -----9-----         -------------- 1991 ---------           -------------- 1992 -------------      -------------- 1993 -------------
TYr   OF TAX   PT        wnT TAX  VALUE               QT       1U*4  TAX   VALUE           UTY        UnI TAX  VAUE                CTY       UNI4T TAX    VALUE            OTY       1141T TAX    VALUE
1X1Cs:Vk      OP      O7106      IXYi                CP      QPXO.V  0  >. 10e I   b      G       0m1O               LX103.h        GP      0o10      l       XIOYSvh  to
RSOLDIE TAX    7555         11.0    03.               94I6         47.3   446.0            11490         52.0   597.5               1390         57.2      796.6            14740        tlS 0    106.9
CDltSATI TAX
- LV        tS424     6000.0    27,1              6757      10000.0    67.6             t495      12000.0   101.9               10420    14400.0       10.0            12164     17260 0     210.5
- 1W        19m      10000.0    19.9              2194      20.00.0    48.9             2457      24000.0    59.0                2007    21600.0       6O.S              3167      460.0      109 5
gal-TN"         ~         SJ                                     1.                                    SB                                         Am
MAT"" TAX
- LV        4420         0.0     0.0              5716      86000.0   206.6             667       430.0    26.0                  756I     5140.0      392 0              7526    6200.0       46 1
- hV        197          0.0     0.0              2194      60000.0   151.6             2463      792QO.0   176.6                2607     0400.0      242.3              J       10360. 0     am I
kl-rTiTLS                                 BRA SiS.       4      IA                                    ZMS
4,X
CLOY"  TAX                                                                                                                                                                                                -
- LV         160   430000.0   378.5               1206    495000.0   596.5              1642    04400.0   694.1                  2069   55950U.0    1239.2               2668   65i645 0    1757 a
- lt4        201   2.9EdO       662.9              210    8.2E.06    696.4               2S6    3.56E.      690.1                 SW6   3.9E.06       19.9                854   42E.06       IS0 0
S1-TOTALS                           4IL                                        imj             uJ  an"
TOLLS                                20.4                 0         0.0     0.0                0         0.0      0.0                   0        0.0        0.0                 0        0.0       0a0
MA^L FAO -^_. 
TUTU_  -VBi                                          _     .LJ _         _     .
Freo 1660 "a %le 2 o CIF
C;rflu ie tea10 IO000 (LV) _r 20   (1) GP
Compensation Too 8600  (LV) te 60000 (HV) 0
lo icreiss  iA co&"  too
inmul i*epr... Of 26  tir. circ.Ii.ieu0n sad COOe tion tax
Need toile abolish"d i 1960
LV - lit ,ohicle                                                                                                                                                        :1
heav- ia vyoicle                                                                                                                                                    tI X
se.4m*_r 1966



GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
MES Coordinaton of tho Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
-  Ot    h   SET'
SEU45EMAR
F_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
D(mp                                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
LEW ~ ~ ~ ~~~~  
+                               RODOFL~~~~~~~thrLik
K/w4t8?7



GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of. PCU
I  Executive
ICaomnitteI
PCU Coordhator
1:.^"                    I ~~~~~~~~~~~Screara
Accounting       Technical        TrauiingI
EK/W46b77b
3QQ
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     o
ao I
{DN



- 50 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Assistance to MES' Engineering Laboratory (LEGUI)
1.        The Guinea Bissau Engineering Laboratory (LEGUI), under MES,
received limited equipment and technical assistance under the Second Roads
Project. The LEGUI is now capable of carrying out basic soils tests on a
modest scale, although only the most elementary asphalt tests. Its
buildings require refurbishing and its staff, which presently does not
include an engineer, needs technical assistance for on-the-job training in
carrying out laboratory and in-situ soils and materials testing.
2.        The project will strengthen LEGUI's capability to undertake
soils and materials testing, and research studies on the use of local
materials for roads (mainly laterites) and for buildings, as well as
logistic support for LEGUI to carry out its tasks. Technical assistance
will be provided through an agreement with the Portuguese National
Laboratory of Civil Engineering (LNEC).
3.        LEGUI's main experimental work under the project will be the
study of the relationship between the characteristics of laterite deposits
and the performance of pavements built with these laterites (Attachment 1).
Thi- experimental work will consist of two phases which may overlap:  (a)
monitoring performance of selected sections on the existing road network;
(b) undertaking experimental low-cost asphalt paving along the 16 km
section between Caium River and Buruntuma, for which the paving options
will be chosen in coorditation with a similar program being carried out on
the North Bank road in the Gambia.. This coordination between the research
effo.rts of Guinea Bissau and the Gambia will benefit both countries in
providing a iarger base for applying the research results.
4.        The cost of experimentally asphalting the Pitche-Buruntuma road
is estimated at US$20,000 pe; km, and is included under the road
rehabilitation program.  The base cost in US$ of LEGUI's program is
estimated as follows:
(a)  Laboratory equipment and vehicles                     280,000
(b)  Training (local and abroad                             35,000
(c)  Building refurbishing                                  30,000
(d)  Materials                                             215,000
(e)  Technical assistance through LNEC                     150,000
Total                                   US$710,000
5.        Tho technical assistance to be provided to LEGUI by LNEC will
include: (a) a research engineer to assist in the analysis of existing
techn'ical literature, selection of road sections for testins and
monitoring, design of experimental sections to be built under the project,
drawing up a plan for data collection, storage and analysis, and
preparation of progress and final reports (18 m-m); and (b) hosting



- 51 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
trainees from LEGUI to. inter alia, carry out special material tests and
finalize reports.
6.        LEGUI's program should enable it to carry out the most usual
soils and materials tests in the laboratory and in-situ, including bitumen
testing. The program will also develop LEGUI's capability to undertake
experimental work in the roads field, from data collection to analysis and
reporting. The program's main benefit will ultimately be lower costs of
roads and housing (building) works in Guinea Bissau, with a more rational
use of locally available materials.
AFTIN
November 1989



- 52 -
Annex 3-2
Attachment 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Study on Paving Laterite Gravel Roads
Introduction
1.        Recent research tends to indicate that the surface course of
some laterite gravel roads shows a significant increase in relative density
and in bearing capacity after it has been subjected to traffic and rains.
The likely factor that has been suggested to rationalize such a behavior is
the initial plastic shrinkage of the laterite gravel combined with the
subsequent kneading action of the traffic. It may therefore be possible to
upgrade roads to paved standards oy simply resealing the existing roads.
The possible cost savings are significant.
Obiective
2.        The objective of the study are to evaluate the feasibility for
low-cost upgrading of laterite gravel roads and to prepare the
specifications for construction and monitoring of performance.
Scope of the Work
3.        The Consultant will:
(a) evaluate briefly the potential and the scope of upgrading gravel
roads in Guinea Bissau on the basis of the available data on
materials and traffic and through field inspection of the roads;
(b) locate one or several road sections that could become test
sections for the study. The road sections could be recently
regraveled, or soon to be regraveled road sections;
(c) specify the schedule of tests required prior, during and after
the construction of the test sections. Also, specify the
traffic data to be gathered;
(d) establish the parameters that will be used to monitor the test
sections and to evaluate its performance;
(e) propose a schedule for the test section construction and the
monitoring program together with estimates of cost and the
supervision required;
(f) monitor performance of the test sections; and
(g) evaluate the economic benefits of upgrading the road section(s)
to paved standards by simply resealing the existing sections.



Annex 3-3
- 53 -                             Page 1 of 3
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Budget Estimates
USs               X
1.  Training costs                                      831,040              61.3
1.1  Local training by foreign organi'ations        384,620              28.4
1.2  Local training by local organizations          135,900              10.0
1.3  Financial support for participants             85,320                6.3
Local Training                        605,840              44.7
1.4  Training abroad                                174,800              12.9
1.5  Travel for study & training (short courses)  50,400                  3.7
225.200             16.6
2.  Establis'hi'ent of a Human Resource and
Training ManaRement Unit                             19,000               1.4
3.  Vehicles and equipment                               70,000               5.2
4.  Consumables                                          25,000               1.9
5.  Reconstruction & rehabilitation of facilities        60,000               4.4
6.  Coordination & management of Training Plan          350,000              25.8
TOTAL                              1,355,040             100.0



TRAINING PLAN BUDGET ESTIMATES. BY COMPONENT
Indicators
Number of     Hours/    Participants/  Hours of   C   o olnt                Cost/Hr.    Cost/Parti-  Cost/Act-
Activities   Activity      Activity      Training    IS )                 training/US$  cipant/US$   ivity/USS
1.    -TRAINING COSTS
1.1   -Local training by foreign org.             48                                     64.640    384.620                  5.95           572         8.013
1.1.01-Management of Public Admin.                 2           156            20          6.240      32.760                 5.25           519        16.380
1.1.02-Integrated Manag eme nt course              2           120            20          4,800      25.200                 5.25           630        12.600
.1.03-Project Appraisal, management
and supervision                             2           84             20          3,360      17.640                 5.25           441        8.820
'.1.04-Supplie% & Inventory Ngmt                   2           60             ZO          2.400      12.600                 5.25           315         6.300
.1.05-financial flot & MZgt Control               2           108            20          4.320      22.680                 5.25           567        11.340
'.1.0b-Acctng & Govt. Budget Mgmt                  3           30             20          1,800       9.450                 5.25           157.5       3.150
11.07-Mach & Vehicle Maint Org & systems        2           120             20          4,800     25.200                  5.25           630        12.600
1.1.OR-Human Resource Management                   2           60             20          2.400      12.600                 5.25           315         6.300
'.1.09-lraining of works directors                 2           180            20          7,200      37.800                 5.25           945        18.900
1.1.10-Training for const & pub wks spvsrs         5           150            20         15,000      78.750                 5.25           787.5      15,750
1.1.11-training for machinery supervisors          2           150            20          6.000      31,500                 5.25           787.5      15,750
1.1.12-Adv. training for each. operators          16           25              5   .    2,000        33,600                20.32           508         2.540
(a) hours/machine: 320                                                                         7.040
1l1.13-Introduction to Data Processing             3            60             12         2.160      18.900                 8.75           525         6,300
'.1.14-Proqraming & Operating Systems              3           60              12         2,160      18,900                 8.75           525         6io0o
'.2   -tocal training by local org.               43                                    146.000    135.900                  0.93           158         3.160
1.Z.01-Refresher Course for Auto Mechanics        10           120            20         24.000      36.000                 1.5            180         3,600      >
'.Z.02-Accounting: First Phase                     5           180            20         18,000      24.300                 1.35           243         4.860
'.2.03-Accounting: Second Phase                    5           180            20         18,000      24.300                 1.35           243         4.860
1.2.04-Storage Facility Mgt & Organization         3           100            20          6.000       8.100                 1.35           135         2.700
1.2.05-Strengthening of Basic Education           20          200             20         80.000      43.200                 0.54           108         2,160
1.3   -Financial support for participants                                                            85,320
1.3.01-Traininq activities
(130640H:4) US$2                                                                             65,320
1.3.02-Strengthening of education
(80000H:4) US$1                                                                              20.000
1.4   -Training activities abroad                                                                   174.800                              5.141        5,141
1.4.01-Grad course in transportation planning   3                                                    30.300                             10,100        10,100
54 students/US$450/month                                                                     24,300
6 trips (US$1000)                                                                             6,000
1.4.02-Course or short course on
road transportation operation            2                                                  7.400                              3,700         3.700
12 students/US$450/month                                                                      5,400
Z trips (US$1000)                                                                             2,000
1.4.01-Course or short course on river
transportation operation                 1                                                  3.700                              3.700         3,700
6 students/US$450/uonth                                                                       2,700
I trip (US$1000)                                                                              1.000  
1.4.04-Course for masters of coastwise vessels 10                                                    28.000                              2,800        2,800
60 students/US$300/month                                                                     18.000
-10 trips (US$1000)                                                                           10.000                                                         o  1
1.4.05-Course for maritime pilots                 5                                                 60.000                              12,000       12.000           "
150 students/US$300/month                                                                    45.000
IS trips EUS$1000)                                                                           IS*000



Component
Number of    -Hours/    Participants/  Hours of        gj                  Cost/Hr.    Cost/Parti-  Cost/Ait-
Activities   Activity      Activity      Training     (USSI              training/USS  cipant/USS   ivity/USS
1.4.08 -Course for marine engineers                10                                                37.000                              3.700        3.100
90 students/US$300/month                                                                    27,000
10 trips (US$1000)                                                                          10.000
1.4.07 -Course or short course on port
operations and instruction               3                                                 8.400                             2.800         2.800
18 students:US$300/month                                                                    5400
i trips IUS$l0OO)                                                                            3,000
1.5    -Study travel                                                                                 50,400                             2.400         2.400
1.6.01 -21 trips (14 days)
21x14xUS$00                                                                                29,400
1.6.02 -21 trips (14 days). round trip
21aUS$100                                                                                  21,000
Subtotal training costs                                                                    831,040
2.      -ESTABLISHMENT OF A HtUAN RESOURCE
AND TRAINING IUNAGEMENT UNIT
2.1    -tocdl personnel costs                                                                        12.000
2.2    -O t*e materials and equipment                                                                7.000                                                     L'
Subtotal Training managemant Unit .stablishUWnt                                             19.000
a.      -VEHICtES AND EQUIPMENT
a.l    -Vehicles                                                                                     20.000
8.2    -Equipment                                                                                    50.000
Subtotal vehicles and *qu-                                                                 10.000
4.      -CONSUMABLES - Subtotal                                                                       25.000
6.      -RECONSTRUCTION AND
REHASILIIATION OF fACILITIES - Subtotl                                                   60,000
6.     -COORDINAIION AND MANAGEMENT
OF THE PLAN
6.1    -lechnical assistance
(34 man-months of consultancy)
Cfees and subsistence allowances)                                                         340.000
O.2    -Iraveling (1OKUSSIOOO)                                                                      10.000
Subtotal technical assIt anqe                                                             350.000
TOIAL
1. 3'5, 040                                                    L) :
mx
I.J    .
Ml  .



- 56 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 4
GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Infrastructure Program
!
Introduction
1.   According to the Classification of the Road System of Guinea-Bissau
approved by the Government in 1986, the network is comprised of 1,048 km of
national roads, 526 km of regional roads and 1.062 km of local roads,
totaling 2,636 km. The network consists of 544 km of paved roads and 2,092
km of unpaved roads.
2.   A detailed survey of the road network done by consultants in 1987
indic&ted that 152 of the roads were in good condition, 172 in fair
condition, and 68Z in poor condition. An estimate of present road
conditions is given in Attachment 1.A.
Objectives
3.   The main objectives of the Road Infrastructure Program under IRP are:
(a) rehabilitation of paved and unpaved roads, including river crossings,
that provide essential access between agricultural production areas and
river ports or consumption centers; (b) improvements to feeder roads in the
important agricultural areas in the South; and (c) consolidating the road
maintenance effort initiated under the Second Roads Project. The primary
objective of the road infrastructure program, which goes beyond the scope
of IRP, is to have over 90 percent of the paved and laterite gravel roads
in good condition by 1998; however, only a few earth roads, which support
little traffic will have been improved.
Physical and Institutional Accomplishments
4.   To accomplish the above mentioned objectives, the project will:  (a)
rehabilitate about 182 km (33 percent) of the existing paved road network
and about 175 km (8 percent) of the existing unpaved road network, i.e.,
about 14 percent of the classified road network; (b) rehabilitate about 3
km of urban roads in Bissau and 5 km in other priority centers; (c) support
the road maintenance program over five years (1990-94); (d) rehabilitate
about 130 km of priority feeder roads; and (e) strengthen the General
Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DGEP) through the Technical Office (TO)
to manage the road infrastructure program.
5.   The Second Roads Project4 (Cr. 1473-GUB) has addressed both financial
and institutional constraints to improving the condition of the road
network, but considerably more remains to be done. As a result of the
proposed project, together with road rehabilitation financed by other
donors, about 55 percent of the road network is expected to be in good
condition by January 1995. The estimated condition of the road network
upon project completion is given in Attachment 1.B.



- 57 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 4
Annual Investment Required
6.   An annual investment of about US$12.5 million equivalent on road
maintenance and rehabilitation will be necessary to reach the proposed
imp.ovement to the road network condition within the next five years.
Afte.. about 1998, following the rehabilitation program, regular rodd
maintenance rehabilitation and upgrading costs decline to about US$5.0
million equivalent per year, to maintain the network in stable state.  The
Road Fund should then contribute about US$2.5 million annually, or 50Z of
the total needs.
Paved Road Rebabilitation
7.   About 180 km of paved roads will be rehabilitated under the project
by applying an optimal rehdbilitation alternative to each road section.
ranging from a simple resealing to major rehabilitation of selected
sections. The Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (P')M-III) was
used by MES and consultants to make comparative cost estimates and economic
evaluations of different maintenance options for the entire road network.
The rehabilitation alternative with the lowest discounted total cost was
sought for each road section. The evaluation will be updated for selected
sections during project execution, using the most recent information
available on traffic, road condition and unit costs.
8.   At an estimated base cost of US$26,500/km. the rehabilitation of
paved roads will cost about US$4.8 million. All works will-be contracted
out under ICB. The paved road sections selected for rehabilitation under
the project, as well as the corresponding costs and timetable for
implementation, are given in Attachment 2.
Rehabilitation of Urban Roads
9.   Sections of two important streets (Av. Pansau N'Isna and Av. das
Nacoes Unidas) in Bissau, totaling about 3 km will be rehabilitated,
erosion control and drainage works undertaken, and sidewalks constructed.
Seven main streets in other priority urban centers totaling about 5 km will
also be rehabilitated.  Besides improving traffic circulation, this work
will control the environmentally hazardous erosion problem and provide safe
conditions for pedestrians. Street rehabilitation works have estimated
base costs of US$250,000/km in Bissau and US$50,000/km in other centers;
works will be executed by contract under ICB.
Unpaved Road Rehabilitation
10. About 80 percent of laterite gravel roads and 96 percent of earth
roads were in fs4.r to poor condition in January 1989. This generally poor
condition on unpAved roads is seriously affecting access to agriculture
areas. As for paved roads, HDM-III was also used to make comparative cost
estimates and economic evaluations of different maintenance options for the
entire unpaved road network. An optimal rehabilitation strategy, ranging
from regraveling to reconstruction, will be applied to an estimated 175 km
of unpaved roads, providing all-weather laterite gravel surfacing. All
works will be contracted under ICB. At an estimated base cost of



- 58 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 4
US$17,000/km, this component will cost about US$3.0 million.  The unpaved
road sections selected for rehabilitation under the project, as well as the
corresponding costs and timetable for implementation, are given in
Attachment 3.
11. During implementation LEGUI will undertake experimental work, in
coordination with a similar program in the Gambia, to determine the
relationship between the characteristics of laterite used in road
structures and pavement performance, with the objective of finding low-cost
and economicelly viable alternatives to pave rehabilitated gravel road
sections with traffic over 100 vpd. Experimental asphalting of about 16 km
of Route Nl. between Caium river and Buruntuma at the border with Guinea
(Conakri), will be carrried out under the project, at an estimated base
cost of US$20,000/km, or a total of US$320,000.
Ferry Barges and Ramp Reconstruction
12.  The Port Rehabilitation Project included the reconstruction of eight
river ramps, and the Second Roads Project the procurement of a ferry for
Bolama crossing.  The increased economic activities now require for
reconstruction of four additional river ramps: two long (90 m) ramps at
Che Che (up to 4-6 m water level differences between rainy and dry seasons)
and two single ramps at Bolama; and rehabilitation of a ramp at Cobumba.
in addition, the small ferry barge at Che-Che will be replaced by a 20-25
ton open deck barge. Base cost estimates for this component an US$200,000
for the new barge and US$800,000 for the ramp reconstruction.
Road Maintenance Program
13.   DGEP established three regional road brigades under the Second Roads
Project for carrying out routine and some periodic maintenance. These
brigades which a.so maintain local aerodromes and ferry crossings, will be
supported under the project through provision of imported spare parts,
petroleum products and materials, and replacement of equipment for road
maintenance. A small brigade for patching paved roads, especially in
Bissau will also be equipped under the project. Road brigades of MES are
receiving food for work through the World Food Program, which presently
benefits about 570 workers and provides incentives to improving production
and reducing absenteeism. The project will also finance contracted road
maintenance tasks which are expected to gradually increase through training
of local entrepreneurs. The production targets for road maintenance
activities for each year between 1990 and 1994 are as follows:
ROAD Maintenance Activities      Unit 19      1991    19   19    19A:
Bus cleaning and greas cutting    he  320      410   430   530  C40
Pothole patching - unpaved roads  km  600      760  600   900   920
Pothole patching - paved roads    km  490      660  560   760   760
Ditch and culvert cleaning        km  990   1,310 1,360  1,680 1,680
Light grading                     km 1,200   1,600 2,200  2,500 2,600
Heaving grading                   km   75       60   70   100  100
Letorit. regravollng      thous. sq. *. 166    140  165   200   200



- 59 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 4
14. The annual cost of road maintenance operations (excluding salaries
and wages) over five years is expected to increase from about US$1 million
in 1990, to about US$2.0 million in 1994 as MES expands its maintenance
activities to cover most of the road network. Pro4ections of annual road
maintenance costs are shown in Attachment 4. The breakdown of base costs
(in thousand USS) for road maintenance over the five-year project period
(1990-94) are expected to be as follows:
Spare parts, etc. for equipment maintenance   .....    1,600
Tires    ....................... ....................    400
Fuel and lubricants       ...............    2,600
Materials .......................................      1,000
Contracts with small firms or communities   .......    2,100
Maintenance of ferries ..........................        240
Total                        7,940
Equipment to be purchased under the project to replace aged units and
establish a ro&d patching brigade will amount to about US$1.7 million
(Attachment 5).
Technical Assistance to DGEP
15. Technical assistance to DGEP for managing and executing road
maintenance started in 1985 under the Second Roads Project. Because of the
acute shortage of trained staff and concentration on improving road
conditions and maintenance under the project,.key assistance will be
continued over the project period through MES' Technical Office (TO),
amounting to 200 m-mn, comprising of two engineers, short-term workshop
specialists, and two roads technicians who will also supervise contracted
work. Classroom and on-the-job training will be provided under the general
direction of MES training advisor in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Summary of Funding Required
16. The base cost of the road infrastructure program under IRP is
summarized as follows:
uSOCO
Paved road rehabilitation .....      .................  4,820
Urban road rehabilitation ......................       1,000
Unpaved road rehabilitation .(incl. paving 16km)       3,025
Urban and rural road maintenance (1990-94)             7,940
Replacement Equipment   .           .1,700
Ferry barge   .                 .200
Ramp reconstruction   .             .800
Technical assistance and road studies.                 2,000
Total base cost                  21,485
17. The road infrastructure program included in the project involves an
investment over a five-year period equivalent to an annual outlay of
US$1,660/km of which US$590/km is for maintenance. Although these figures
are relatively modest, the program will bring about significant
improvements to the country's road network. The impact of the program on
road conditions shown in Attachment 6.



- 60 -
Annex 3-4
Attachment 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Infrastructure Program
A. CONDITION OF THE ROAD NETWORK IN JANUARY 1988
Paved         Laterite          Eartb
Condition       Roads           Roads           Roads            Total
km     z         km     Z        km      Z        km      Z
Good         268    49        60      20       75      4       403      15
Fair          93    17       198      64      161      9       452      17
Poor         183    34        50      16    1.548    87      1,781      68
Totals   544   100       308    100    1,784   100       2,636    100
B.  ESTIMATED CONvITION OF THE ROAD NETWORK IN JANUARY 1995
Paved         Laterite          Earth
Condition      Roads            RoaCs           Roads            Total
km     z        km      2        km      I        km      x
Good         515    63       580      72      343    34      1,438      55
Fair         253    31       205.    25       222    22        676      26
Poor          52      6       20       3      450    44        522      19
Totals   820   100       801    100    1,015   100       2,636    100



GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Infrastructure Program
Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
Road                              Length    Cost    Jan.                   Construction time
-N ber   Designation      Class    km    US$1,000  1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Ni  Biss. Airport-Jugudul  III    47    1,650.0
N2   Rio Mansoa-Saf im     III      8      160.0                                    _                           a
Ni    Jugudul-Bambadinca   III    62    1,240.0        -
R9    Bambadinca-Xime       III    11      220.0
R7   Catio-Rio Cumbija    III    18        450.0
L35   Jemberem-Cadique     III    11       220.0
R3    Mansoa-Bissora       III    25       750.0
TOTAL     182     4,820.0
102     252     252      251    15t
Cost distribution per year          US$1,000         482.0  1,205.0 1,205.0 1,205.0  723.0                  w >
n x
if 
m I
CT'



GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Infrastructure Program
Rehabilitation of Unpaved Roads
Road                              Length   Cost        Jan                   Construction time
Number   Designation       Class    kn  US$1,000       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
L24   Nl - Galomaro          V     24       420.0
Nl    Rio Caium-Buruntuma  IV      16 *    640.0
R4    Contuboel-CambaJu      V     40       800.0
12    Hampata-Guilege        V     30       450.0    _____                                                         N
R7    Buba-Catio             V     52       520.0
R8    Nova Sintra-S.Joao    V      13       195.0
TOTAL     175      3,025.0
102     251     252      251     151
Cost distribution per year          USS1,000            302.5  *756.2   756.2   756.2   453.8
* Section where the Olow cost paving' solution will be tested at a cost of US$320,000.
I> 0
B K
n 



- 63 -                            Annex 3-4
Attachment 4
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance Costs
(in USS thousand - December 1989 prices)
PAVED                        UNPAVED             TOTALS
PERIODIC        CURRENT        PERIODIC       CURRENT    COST
YEAR   KM       USS    KM    USS       KM    US$      KM   USS      USS
1989    -        -    544   489.6       -      -     494  446.6   936.2
1990    -        -    469   440.1    76   304.0   504  453.6  1197.7
1991    -        -    552   496.8    62   248.0   760  684.0  1428.8
1992    -        -    555   499.5    70   280.0   802  721.8  1501.3
1993    -        -    760   684.0    96   364.0   902  611.8  1879.8
1994    -        -    760   684.0   105   420.0   921  828.9  1932.9
1995    -        -    760   684.0   120   480.0   906  815.4  1979.4.
1996   55      625.0  705   634.5   liO   440.0   950  855.0  2754.5
1997  105    1575.0  655   589.5   115   460.0  1005  904.5  3529.0
1998    -        -    760   684.0   120   480.0  1060  954.0  2118.0
1999    -        _    760   684.0   140   560.0  1100  990.0  2234.0



- 64 -
Annex 3-4
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Equipment Requirements for Road Maintenance
Description                         No.              Prices           Amount
(US $)          (US $)
Bulldozer (140 HP)                   1                140,000         140,000
Ripper                               1                 30,000          30,000
Wheel loader (2 cu m)                2                100,000         200,000
Rubber-tired roller                  1                 60,000          60,000
Tractor (90 HP)                      1                 24,000          24.000
Motorgrader (120 HP)                 2                110,000         220,000.
Dump truck (7 cu m)                   7                60,000         420,000
Dump truck (4 cu m)                  1                 35,000          35,000
Water tanker                         2                 65,000         130,000
Towed tanker (4,000 1)               5                 14,000          70,000
Patching truck (1,500 1)             1                 45,000          45,000
Towed patching unit (1,000 1)        1                 15,000          15,000
Manual vibrating roller (1 T)         4                10,000          40,000
Lubrication truck                    1                 80,000          80,000
Generator (30 kw)                    1                 20,000          20,000
Pick-up                              1                 15,000          15,000
Motorcycles                           6                 1,500           9,000
Bicycles                            20                    100           2,000
Sub Total                                                           1,545,000
Spare parts of tools (10Z)                                            155,000
Total                                              1,700,000



- 65  -                                   Annex 3-4
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 1
Road Network Condition
A. In January 1989
Length in km
2000,11
15''00
100
Good          Fair          Poor
EMPaved  =Qrsvel r  Earth   MTotal
B. Estimated in January 1995
Lenoth in km
2000f
I 600
1000
Good          Fair          Poor
Mg Paved   E Grvot l   Earth     Total
ae1ree; Consultant' mpart April 1Me9



- 66 -                         Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 9
GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pilot Feeder Roads Program
Objectives
1.       The long-term objective of the feeder roads program is to improve
and maintain the Guinea Bissau feeder road network based on sound technical
and socioeconomic criteria, applying low-costs solutions to rural access
and transport needs relying to the maximum extent, consistent with cost-
efficiency, on local resources in order for the development to be
sustainable.
2.       The program's immediate objectives are to:
(a)   create a capacity within the Directorate General of Roads and
Bridges (DGEP) and a number of private contracting firms to
effectively apply low-cost methods of feeder roads improvement and
maintenance using locally-available resources to the maximum
extent, consistent with cost-efficiency criteria;
(b)   develop a capacity at the village level to actively participate in
the planning and implementation of feeder roads improvement and
maintenance;
(c)   achieve reliable levels of accessibility consistent with the level
of activities in the respective feeder roads areas of influence;
and
(d)   identify low-cost, non-motorized means of transport with scope for
introduction, or wider usage than at present, in Guinea Bissau in
general and in the project area in particular.
Project Description
3.       To achieve the objectives, the Pilot Feeucr Roads Program includes
the following components:
(a)   improvement by contractors using labor-based methods of about 130
km of feeder roads in the South, and as an option, improvement to
about 50 km mostly unidentified feeder roads in the Southeast of
the country;
(b)   spot improvements to a limited number of tracks, trails and foot
paths linking up to the improved feeder roads in the South,
(c)   maintenance of the improved feeder roads;
(d)   study on low-cost, non-motorized means of transport; and



- 67 -                         Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 9
(e)   technical assistance to: (i) DGEP for the implementation of the
pilot program; (ii) train government staff, contractors and
coms.unities in the implementation of labor-based feeder roads
improvements and maintenance; and (iii) carry out the study on
low-cost means of transport.
Improvement of Feeder Roads
4.       The existing feeder roads network is generally adequate in extent,
however, about 90 percent of the country's feeder roads are in poor
condition due to deficiencies in initial construction standards and
subsequent insufficiency of maintenance. In the project area in the South
of the country, most feeder roads provide access for motor vehicles in the
dry season, but vehicle operating costs are high. In the rainy season
(July-September), many feeder roads are not accessible at all. Low-cost,
non-motorized means of transport such as bicycles and donkey carts are seen
ii, the North of the country, but not in the South. The poor accessibility
in the South, in particular, results in depressed levels of goods and
person transport at high cost, and in very low prices paid at farmgate for
agricultural products. The South of Guinea Bissau has the potential for
substantially increased agricultural production, but in large part, due to
the poor accessibilitj, the agricultural products of the area are almost
exclusively consumed locally.
5.       It is envisaged during the four-year implementation period to
improve about 130 km of existing roads in the South (Attachment 1) to all-
weather 4 m wide feeder roads with adequate side drainage and permanent
drainage structures. It is assumed that the average hauling distance for
laterite will not exceed about 3 km. The works would be carried out using
labor-based methods supported with light equipment, pedestrian roller for
compaction, and tractor-trailer combination for transport of selected
materials. With prevailing wage levels (GP 40,000/mo or US$28/mo for
unskilled labor) these methods are cost-effective. 1/
6.       Domestic contractors would be engaged to carry out the improvement
works. Since they have virtually no experience in road works, substantial
training would be required. Four to five contractors would initially be
selected for training during the first construction seasons (October 1990 -
June 1991). The contractors would make available technicians, foremen and
some skilled workers to be trained partly in the classroom, but mainly on
the site. During the first year it is envisaged to construct about 10 km
feeder roads which should include all main work activities which may be
encountered in the subsequent years. Of the trained contractors three
would be selected and awarded contracts for the second construction season
based on unit rat s fixed on the basis of experiences gained during the
1/ At an exchange rate of GP 1,400 - US$1.00 which has been used in this
annex. GP 40,000/mo includes incentive payment, the official minimum
salary is GP 32,000/mo (US$23/mo) only.



- 68 -                        Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 9
first year training. In the third and fourth construction seasons
contractors would be awarded contracts based on bidding.
7.       During the construction season it is estimated that each
contractor on average would need to engage about 15 skilled laborers and
gangmen, and 110 unskilled laborers. The contractors would have to bring
part of the key staff from the head office in Bissau. For certain times of
the year it is unlikely that the contractors can recruit all unskilled
labor within walking distance of the sites. In such cases camps would be
established and labor, to come extent, recruited in towns in the South
where unemployment and underemployment exist.
8.       It is unlikely that the contractors would have surplus equipment
which could be used for the works. Therefore, the project will procure all
essential equipment required (Attachment 2). After the first year of
training the contractors would be able to acquire the equipment through a
hire-purchase arrangement where MES would deduct form the contractors
monthly statements equipment amortisation and interest charges which would
be paid directly to the bank where the contractors have received loans for
the hire-purchase arrangements or to escrow accounts set up for this
purpose.
9.       A small feeder roads imprdvement program in the Southeast of the
country would be identified. Since the main accessibility constraints in
that area are the poor condition of the Che-Che to Beli and Che-Che to Boe
roads, these should first be improved. Thereafter the feeder roads program
could eventually be expanded to also cover spot improvements to feeder
roads in the Southeast. These works have not been included in the cost
estimates for the pilot program.
Maintenance of Feeder Roads
10.      Feeder road maintenance has for many years been grossly
inadequate. As a result the feeder roads deteriorated to a condition where
they are not maintainable. Under the pilot program the improved feeder
roads will be maintained and a system for their continued maintenance will
be set up.
11.      In order to facilitate raintenance, the improvements will be made
in such a way as to reduce subsequent requirements for maintenance;
temporary structures will be replaced by permanent ones, risks of flooding
will be reduced by providing culverts and raising embankments, road side
drainage will be provided etc.; and at locations where erosion is
nevertheless likely to occur, laterite deposits will be left at the road
side. The maintenance would be carried out using labor intensive methods
supplemented by the passing, twice a year, of a towed grader procured under
the project.
12.      The labor-intensive routine maintenance works would be contracted
to communities and petty contractors. The about 10 km road improved during
the first construction season would in the second season be used for



- 69 -                         Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 9
training of MES staff, communities and petty contractors; in the following
year an additional about 36 km roads improved during the second year would
also receive maintenance, and in the final project year a total of about 80
km would be maintained. In the following yeer, the entire 130 km should be
maintained.
Spot Improvements to Trails and Footpaths
13.      Within the project area it may safely be assumed that the major
part of the person and goods transport related to agriculture and household
activities are carried out on foot. The small farmers will, to a large
extent, use the existing network of trails and footpaths which is vital to
them. Therefore, the program would include spot improvements to some
trails and footpaths. The improvements may include primitive stream
crossing structures, narrow and low embarkment over swampy areas, etc. It
is not envisaged that the cost of the works, which would be carried out by
labor-intensive methods using partly self-help labor, would exceed
US$40,000. In all about 40 km - 60 km trails and footpaths may be
improved.
Study of Low-Cost Means of Transport
14.      Presently, animal carts and bicycles are, to some extent, used in
the North of Guinea Bissau. In the South and Southeast of the country,
low-cost, non-motorized means of transport are not being used; motorized
vehicle and head loading provide the only means of transport. The lack of
animal transport is attributed to social obstacles paired with a lack of
animal health services.
15.      A study will be carried out to: (i) review present use of low-cost
means of transport in Guinea Bissau; (ii) analyze to which extent the use
of existing means could be expanded and new means introduced; and
(iii) develop a plan of action for a rational, economically justified and
socially acceptable expanded role for low-cost means of transport.   The
study will be coordinated by SET through its Transport Coordination Unit.
Technical Assistance and Training
16.      Technical assistance will be provided to MES to: (i) assist in
implementing the improvement and maintenance works in setting up systems
and procedures for contracting of the works; and (ii) train MES staff,
contractors and communities. Certain training activities would be carried
out in collaboration with the SIDA-financed Integrated Rural Development
Project (Zone 1), where government staff are being trained in feeder roads
construction. In total, it is envisaged that about 54 man-months of
technical assistance consisting of an engineer/planner/specialist in labor-
based construction methods (42) and a training specialist (12) would be
provided. In addition two, UN volunteers (civil engineers) would be
engaged for a total of about 65 man-months as well as ad hoc short-term
consultants in the areas of local tools manufacturing, contract documents
and procurement, etc. The technical assistance would be phased out at the



- 70 -
Annex 3-5
Page 5 of 9
end of the third construction season, at which time local staff.
contractors and communities would have been adequately trained. During the
final construction season, it is nevertheless envisaged that a consultant
during two short missions would assist MES to ensure that the implemented
systems and procedures become sustainable.
17.      UNDP is expected to finance the technical assistance and
consultancy services for which the International Labor Office (ILO) would
be the executing agency. Adequate counterpart staffing would be provided
by MES to enable full technology transfer during the project period.
Outline terms of reference for the technical assistance and counterpart
requirements are given in the UNDP Project Document for technical
assistance.
Project Implementation
18.      MES would have responsibility for implementation of the pilot
feeder roads program. The technical assistance would be attached to D1JEP
which would implement the improvement and maintenance works. Procurement
of project equipment would be coordinated by the General Secretary of MES
through the Technicdl Office (TO).
19.      Physical implementation of improvement works are expected to start
by October 1990 and to be completed by June 1994. Attachment 3 shows the
implementation schedule.
Project Costs
20.      The cost of the pilot feeder roads program, net of taxes, duties
and contingencies is estimated at US$2.6 million equivalent. Cost
estimates, in December 1989 prices, are summarized below and detailed in
Attachment 2.
21.      The cost of feeder roads improvement is estimated at US$1O,400lkm
(excluding the cost of technical assistance) which is reasonable, in
particular considering that contractors are being trained. The cost of
routine maintenance is estimated at about US$2501km per year.
22.      The World Food Program (WFP) would provide food rations for
government staff and contractors' labor. Community labor might also
receive food aid in particular if they carry out work on a self-help basis
(improvements to trails and footpaths, etc.). The cost of food aid has not
been included in the cost estimates.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
23.      The pilot feeder roads program would introduce labor-based feeder
roads construction and maintenance methods using domestic contractors which
would be trained. Under prevailing socioeconomic conditions in Guinea
Bissau, in comparison to conventional equipment-intensive feeder roads



- 71 -                          Azmex 3-5
Page 6 of 9
Local       ForeiRn      Total
-      (in USS thousand)
I.  Improvement to about 130 km
Feeder Roads by Contract
For contractors:
- equipment                             -           331           331
- spare parts and tools                20           150           170
Subtotal                               20           481           501
For MES to support contractors:
- equipment                             -           112           112
- spare parts                           _            30            30
- operation and maintenance
equipment                             5            20            25
Sub-total                             5           162           167
For civil works contracts:
- gross total                        (641)         (707)       (1,348)
- net total (excl. depr-
ciation. spare parts etc.)          616           201           817
Total I                             641           844         1.485
II. Improvement to trails and
footpaths
10           30             40
III.Maintenance to feeder roads
- equipment                                          21            21
- spare parts and operation             1             8             9
- hand tools                            2             4             6
- labor                                10                          10
Sub-total                              13            33            46
IV. Vehicles for MES
- vehicles (two 4VD)                                 38            38
- spare parts                                        12            12
- operation and maintenance            3             20            23
Sub-total                              3             70            73
total I - IV                         667            977         1,644
V.  Technical assistance and
training
UNDP financing                        96            864           960
GRAND TOTAL                          763          1,841         2,604



- 72 -                         Annex 3-5
Page 7 of 9
construction methods, labor-based methods: (i) are cost-effective;
(ii) require less fcreign exchange (the improvement works have a foreign
exchange component of 53 percent against about 85 percent for comparable
equipment-intensive methods); (iii) require less capital outlays for
equipment acquisition and are therefore more accessible and less risky to
domestic contractors (when they have been trained); and (iv) create about
three-to-four times as much employment, and injects three-to-four times as
much money into the local economy.
24.      The South of Guinea Bissau has the potential for substantially
increased agricultural production which presently is kept at a depressed
level, inter alia, due to poor accessibility. The improvement work to be
implemented, together with improved river transport etd., would greatly
reduce transport costs and enhance farm gate prices for agricultural
produce.
25.      The program is not without risks; however these have been
minimized through the design of the program and its flexibility. The main
areas of uncertainty are labor availability and capacity of domestic
contractors. The population density in the South is low, not much more
than 10 inh./sq. km even though it is considerably higher in the vicinity
of the feeder roads. Therefore, it is envisaged that contractors might
have to establish camps for labor recruitment in towns.where unemployment
exists.
26.      A study by consultants (CESO) has identified four medium-sized
domestic contractors who, through their general experience and technical
and administrative capacity, eventually after training, could qualify as
road contractors. Also, it is known that a few national senior engineers
might wish to start a contracting firm in the roads sector. In order to
stimulate competition between domestic contractors, it is intended to train
four or preferably five during the first year, even though the subsequent
works would only require three contractors. However, MES intends to
increasingly use contractors for road maintenance activit4is. During the
training period the contractors would be paid at cost for their staff
participating in the training to avoid any commitments towards contractors
as to su'bsequent award of contracts, and to eliminate risks on the part of
the contractors. The availability and capacity of the domestic contractors
will primarily depend upon their alternative work opportunities first of
all in the capital. Should the domestic contractors not have the desired
capacity, or their bids be too high, it would be feasible to carry out part
of the improvement works on force account using the same labor-based
technology, engaging petty contractors to the maximum extent for works
within their ccmoetence. In this way it would be feasible to reach the
physical targets bc the program, while the targets for the development of
the domestic contracting industry would not be fully met.
Preparatory Work
27.      The following project preparatory work is to be carried out before
start up of works:



- 73 -                        Annex 3-5
Page 8 of 9
a.    Road Inventory
For each feeder road a simplified inventory should be carried out
which would:
(i)   identify physical featuress width, sharp curves, steep
gradients, surface type, drainage structures;
(ii)  road condition: road surface, road drainage
(iii) general: terrain, natural soils, laterite deposits,
villages/settlenments along roads and within easy access to
road, main agricultural activities;
(iv)  improvements to be carried out: simplified bill of
quantities with separate identification of drainage
1                        structures.
l
(b)   Labor Availability Survey
The purpose of the survey is to identify labor availability within
walking distance from the work sites.  It may be assumed that-the
improvement works would be carried out by.three domestic
contractors who, during nine to 10 months of the year, shwuld
engage an average of about 110 unskilled workers.  About 14 km of
!                  roads are to be improved by each contractor each year.  To assess
labor availability:
(i)   assess total population in each villagehsettlement and based
on average sex and age distribution estimate male population
in age group 15 to 55;
(ii)  establish an agricultural calendar for typical areas and,
through discussions with local communities, assess
percentage of community population which at various times of
the year would be available for work on the roads without
substantial negative effects for other productive
activities;
|                  (iii) review to what extent labor would be willing to work on the
roads, engaged by contractors and paid wages, possibly
supplemented by food aid;
(iv)  based on the above, assess to what extent labor requirements
can be met by recruiting local unskilled labor. To the
extent sufficient labor may not be recruited in that way,
would it be feasible to recruit supplementary labor in small
towns in the area and provide camps for them near work
I                        sites?



- J4 -
Annex 3-5
Page 9 of 9
(C)   Selection of feeder roads for initia. two Year construction
In the first construction season (Oct. 1990 - June 1991) it is
intended to carry out demonstration and training activities using
a total of about 10 km road section(s) covering typical work
conditions in the project area. In the following construction
season three contractors would carry out about 42 km improvement
works. To the extent feasible, works for the demonstration and
training activities should be selected so as to avoid logistic and
labor availability problems. For the second year construction
program road sections should be selected which facilitate
continued contractor training.
28.      The above preparatory work, including report writing, could be
carried out within a period of about five weeks by a civil engineer
assisted during about three weeks by a national consultant. The civil
engineer should have extensive experience in low-class road construction
and maintenance, including the use of labor-based methods, in developing
countries with similar socio-economic conditions as in Guinea Bissau.
He/she should have a good working knowledge of Portuguese. As an
alternative fluency, in French with some knowledge of Portuguise might be.
acceptable. The national consultant would primarily assist in carrying out
the labor survey. A person with some background in economics or sociology
would be preferable.
AFTIN
November 1989.



75 -                        Annex 3-S
Attachment 1
GUINEA BISSAU - INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILIATION PROJECT
Pilot Feeder Roads Program
Zone     Feeder Road                    Length (km)
FIRST PRIORITY
South    Nhala - Cangregorio             17
Fulacunda - Ganjauara          21
Empada - Darsalamee - Madina
de Baiso                       30
Empada - Pobreza               23
Brandao - Jabada               20
Tite - N'Husse                   3
R 7 - Bantael Sila              16
SUB-TOTAL                     130
OPTIONAL
Southeast
Beli - Pataque                  6
unidentified                   44
SUB-TOTAL                      50



- 76 -                        Annex 3-5
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pilot Feeder Roads Program
Cost Estimates
(December 1989, US$)
I.       Improvement to about 130 km
Feeder roads by Contract
Equipment for Contractors             No.    Unit Cost   Local  Foreign  Total
Pick-up                                3      16.000               48,000   48,000
Tractor (75 HP)                        6      20,000              120,000  120,000
Trailer ((4/5 cu.m), non tipping      12       8,000               96,000   96,000
Water tank trailer (4cu.m)              3      5,000               15,000   15,000
Water tank trailer (lcu.m)              3     .2,500                7,500    7,500
Water pump (75 mm)                      3      2,500                7,500    7,500
Pedestrian vibrating roller            3      10,000               30,000   30,000
Power saw                               6        500                3,0uuU    3,000
Pulley block and rope                   6        150                  900      900
Bicycles                                9        300                2,700    2,700
Sub-total equipment                                         330,600  330,600
Spare parts (30Z)                                                 100,000  100,000
Hand tools                                                20,000  50,000   70,000
TOTAL                                                20,000 480,600  500,600
Equipment for MES
(assistance to contractors)
Fuel tanker (9,000 1)                  1      47,000               47,000   47,000
Mobile workstop                         1     65,000               65,000   65,000
112,000  112,000
Spare parts                                                        30.000   30,000
142,000  142,000
Operation and maintenance (4 years)                        5,000  20,000   25,000
TOTAL                                                 5,000 162,000  167,000
Operating cost of equipment
Equipment operated by each of the three contractors would have a total hp
of about 180. The fuel consumption is estimated as followss
0.9 x 180 x 0.125 x 7h x 200 days - 28,350 1/year, cost US$ 8,500/year
for 3 contractors: USS 25.500/year



- 77 -
Annex 3-5
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
Labor Cost 1/
Labor requirements
per contractor        No.   Monthly salary      No. Mth/year   Cost (GP)Iyear
Foremen                  1   100,000             12               1,200,000
Gangmen                  6    70,000              12               5,040,000
Skilled labor            6    50,000             12               3,600,000
Unskilled labor        110    40,000              10             44,000,000
Sub-total                                                     53,840,000
camps etc.                                                         5,000,000
Total cost for 1 contracto.               58,840,000
US$42,000/year
Construction Costs (US$)
Construction seasons 91/92,  92/93, 93/94             Local       Foreign     Total
Contractors equipment                                             330,600     330,600
Interest on equipment (102 p.a. during 3 years)   50,000                       50,000
Hand tools and spare parts                           20,000       150,000     170,000
Fuel; lubricant and tires                            10,000        74,000      84,000
Labor costs (3 x 42,000 x 3)                        378,000                   378,000
Sub-total                                      458,000       554,600   1,012,600
Less residual equipment value (20Z) 2/                             66,000      66,000
458,000      488,600      946,600
Contractors overhead, riskt and profit (252)        115,800       121,900     237,700
Sub-total                                       573,800       610,500   1,184,300
MES equipment (60 2 amortisation)                                  67,000      67,000
Operation and maintenance MES equipment               5,000        20,000      25,000
Sub-total                                       578,800       697,500   1,276,300
Construction season 90/91
Amortisation contractors equipment and tools
included under construction season 1991-1994
Fuel, lubricants and tires                             2,000       10,000      12,000
Labor costs                                           60,000                   60,000
Sub-total                                          62,000      10,000       72,000
TOTAL                        640,800      707,500   1,48,300
l/Includes allowances. With food aid pi:ovided to labor, it might be
possible to make minor deductions from the wages.
2/Equipment amortisation for construction seasons 1990-1991 is included.



- 78 -
Annex 3-5
Attachwert 2
Page 3 of 3
II. Maintenance
FQuigent for Contractors   No.        Unit Cost   Local   Foreign          Total
Towed grader 31              1        15,000               15,000          15,000
Motorbikes (125cc)           2         2,000                4,000           4,000
Blicycles                    6           300                1,800           1,800
Handtools                    LS                   2,000     4,000           6.000
Labor                                            10,000                    10.000
Operation and maintenance                         1,000     8,000           9,000
(including spare parts)                         13,000    32,800           45,800
Lese residual value of equipment (502)
and motor-bicycles (20Z)                                                    8,860
TOTAL                                                                 36,940
Maintenance schedule                                       or US$256/km-year
1991-1992              10 km
1992-1993              46 km
1993-1994              88 km
144 km
3/The grader should be towed by a tractor which, it is assumed, could be
rented from one of the contractors.



- 79 -                         Annex 3-5
Attachment 3
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pilot Feeder Roads Program
Implementation Schedule
1990  1991   1992  1993  1994
A. Procurement                                                  .
-  Prep. tender document             *      I     I     I      I
invitation to tender               *    I      |     |     I
-  award contracts 
-  delivery equipment                   _               I      I
and hand tools
B. Road Improvement                         |     | .          3
-  demonstration/training                   _           I      I
-  fixed unit rate contracts                I   m              I
-  work based on-bidding                    I     I
-  improvements to track, trails            3
and foot paths
C. Road Maintenance                         I
D. Trasining and Technical Assist.                             - _
E. Evaluation and Monitoring                3     I     I      I
-  Quarterly Progress Reports           * * * * * * * * * * * * *
-  Yearly UNDP Reports                                 *        *
-  Evaluations
-  Final Report                             3     3     3      3   *
I     I     I     I



- 80 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 6
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Urban Program
A. Background
1.    The total population cf Guinea Bissau is estimated to evolve around
950,000, of which about one-sixth, or 150,00 live in Bissau, the capital city.
The overall portion of people living in centers considered as urban is, according
to Government data, about 23 percent of the total population, or approximately
220,000. Only two or three secondary centers reach a population of about 20,000,
and no more than four or five other towns exceed 5,000 inhabitants.
2.    Most of the urban centers and, in particular the capital, inherited, at
least in their core areas, fairly well-organized systems of road, drainage, and
water supply infrastructure networks from the colonial period. However, largely
as a result of the stringencies of the post-independence period and the economic
difficulties of the more recent years, maintenance of most infrastructure was
severely neglected, and delivery of basic urban services, and especially that
of solid waste collection and environmental sanitation, was reduced to levels
far below acceptable standards. One of the most consequential outcomes of this
persistent lack of adequate attention has been the continuous deterioration of
overall sanitary conditions, particularly in Bissau where a cholera outbreak in
1987 exacted a heavy toll in human lives.
3.    The situation in the housing sector is similarly alarming.   Housing
conditions in Bissau, as well as in the secondary centers, are extremely poor,
and a severe shortage of dwellings affordable to the poorer segments of the
population has become a critical element among the country's numerous social
problems.   In Bissau alone the current deficit is estimated at about 12,000
dwellings and believed to be increasing at a rate of about 1,000 units per year.
Aside from a few constructions owned by high-income households, the vast majority
of houses is of traditional design and usually built under self-help arrangements
with the use of local construction materials. Other building materials and basic
supplies are imported, but because of the country's foreign exchange constraints,
are in most cases only intermittently available.   This has resulted in the
creation of a highly speculative market and become a major factor in causing
abnormally elevated construction costs. Since independence, the Government's
strategy for the development of the housing sector has consisted primarily in
attempts to canvas exterior, principally bilateral funding for various public
housing projects intended for civil servants. Results have been disappointing
however, as no more than 150 units could be completed in the last ten years,
while several other of these projects had to be abandoned at various stages of
completion.



- 81 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 6
4.    Aside from the persistent shortage of funding,  and in particular,  of
foreign exchange resources, the lack of a clearly defined framework of
institutional responsibilitias, sectoral policies and appropriate regulations
has long been one of the principal factors that contributed to exacerbate the
situation in both the areas of urban service delivery and supply of affordable
housing.  SRveral recent developments, however, indicate that the Government has
now become aware of the necessity to reorient drastically its approach to these
problems and to explore new, more innovative avenues to their solution.   An
agreement for the provision of technical assistance to the Bissau Municipality
to help it strengthening its technical and financial management capacity was
signed in Summer 1988 with the French Cooperation Fund (PAC). A first sites-
and-services operation comprising a total of about 690 plots in Bissau has been
included in SIRP. Following up on these initiatives, the Government has also
agreed to prepare under the current project a comprehensive Housing Sector Policy
Study which should help the authorities identify technically, economically and
socia,lly viable solutions for addressing the housing needs of the population,
and particularly its poorer segments, and, thereby, provide a more solid basis
for possible further assistance to this sector by the donor community.
B. Component Description
5.    The proposed urban component would have two objectives:
First, to improve overall living and sanitary conditions for the
inhabitants of the capital city by developing -- in the form of a pilot-
project -- an assistance program for the Bissau Municipality in order to
support its efforts to strengthen its technical and financial management
capacity, and in particular, to improve the delivery quality of its solid
waste collection services; and
Second, to support, in following up on actions initiated under SIRP, the
Government's efforts to relieve the pressure on the demand for low-cost
housing sites in Bissau and to expand the benefits of its housing
improvement initiatives into secondary urban centers.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 82 -
Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 6
6.    The total cost of the proposed component, excluding contingencies, is
estimated at US$ 2.0 million equivalent as follows (details are provided in
Attachment 1):
Description               Local             Foreign           Total
-- (in US$ thousand) -------------
Solid Waste Vehicles
and Equipment                  0.0             335.0             335.0
Housing and Site
Development                  425.0              740.0          1,165.0
Technical Assistance
and Studies                   40.0              360.0            400.0
Office Equipment
and Supplies                   0.0               60.0              60.0
Housing Sector Policy
Study (PPF)                 13.0             107.0             120.0
Total              478.0            1,602.0           2,080.0
7.    The solid waste subcomponent would comprise the provision to the B_.sau
Municipality of 2 container trucks, 18 solid waste containers, 1 loader, and
miscellaneous supplies and spare parts. Since the proposed equipment is intended
to complement an on-going program funded by the French FAC and in order to
simplify fleet management and operation procedures to the greatest possible
extent, attention would be paid to ensure reasonable compatibility with existing
equipment. Routine maintenance and repair of vehicles is usually contracted out
by the municipality to private or semi-private operators and, provided the
required parts are readily available, can be secured at acceptable standaris.
The proposed equipment would allow solid waste collection services to be extended
beyond the downtown area to at least four peripheral, primarily low-and middle
income neighborhoods and to ensure daily waste removal from all five major
markets.
8.    The site development and housing subcomponent would include the development
of about 470 minimally serviced plots in Bissat and of a tota' of 250 such-plots
in 6 secondary centers (BafatA, Bissora, Bolama, Canchungo, Farim, and Gab*).
All plots would have an average size of 300 sq.m. in accordance with the
standards developed for the sites-and-services component included under SIRP.
Plots in Bissau would be developed on two different sites: about 350 plots would
be located in an area adjacent to the SIRP sites-and-services operation in the
Antula neighborhood, while the remaining 120 would be developed in the Bairro-



- 83 -
Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 6
dos-Trabalhadores neighborhood. According to available survey data. both sites
are presumed to be currently free of occupants.  However, in the event that
occupants would ultimately be discovered who could assert their permanence on
the site before the public notification of its requisition for the project by
the Government, their relocation and/or integration into the proposed development
would be undertaken in accordance with the guidelines established, and agreed
upon by IDA, for each cases under SIRP Project.
9.    Infrastructure services provided would include laterite roads, roadside
drainage, water supply through either standpipes or individual connections,
electricity and street lighting. Given the locations of the various operations
in Bissau and the secondary centers no major road access works would be
necessary. Water supply would be secured in Bissau through a main connection
with the existing distribution network operated by EAGB. the public water
company, and in the secondary centers through link-ups with the water supply
extensions funded under SIRP. Sanitation would in all places rely on individual
pit latrines.
10.   To prove the feasibility, both technical and financial, of new, innovative
solutions for low-cost housing affordable to the poorer segments of the
population, the project would finance the construction of a series of
demonstration houses. These units, either fully completed or of a starter-home
type would display a variety of basic designs and serve as a testing ground for
the application and dissemination of appropriate and cost-effective construction
techniques using both traditional and imported materials. For the implementation
of this program, the opportuniry to call on the expertise of an NGO specialized
in these activities should ultimately be explored.
11.   The technical assistance subcomponent would provide funding for the
contracting of various technical experts by MES  (30 m-m) and the Bissau
Municipality (20 m-mi), as well as for various studies in the areas of urban
planning and urban management. Annexes 3-1 (D) and (E) provide outline terms
of reference.
12.   Technical assistance to MES would comprise the provision of professional
services by urban planning and building regulation experts to help the
Directorate of Housing and Urban Affairs (DGHU) prepare appropriate building
regulations, undertake essential urban planning studies for secondary centers,
and increase its ability to advise local authorities in urban development
matters. This assistance would be provided through the services of a permanent
adviser to the DGHU Director General (20 m-m) and in form of successive, short-
term missions by various experts (10 m-m).  It would also include the supply of
essential logistical support material and equipment.
13.   Technical assistance to the Bissau Municipality would consist of short-
term missions by experts in urban services and municipal finance management (10
m-m), with  the objective  to assist  the authorities  in  reorganizing  the
municipality's tax administration and accounting systems, improving management
and staffing procedures, strengthening its technical service and planning
departments, and providing adequate training. Further preparation of activities
to be undertaken under the project would largely build up on, and be coordinated
r



- 84 -
Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 6
with, the institutional assistance currently provided by the French FAC under
a program scheduled to be completed in 1990. Particular emphasis would be given
to update the municipality's property tax and land lease tariff structures and
to improve collection performance. Given the still embryonic state of management
structures and lack of suitably skilled staff, preparation of a comprehensive
municipal action plan will require careful study, and technical assistance (10
m-rn) will be provided under the project to prepare a municipal action plan by
June 30, 1991.
.
14.   To complement the efforts undertaken by the Government under this project
and SIRP, to improve the overall housing conditions of the population and,
especially, of its neediest segments through the implementation of sites-and-
services operations in Bissau and secondary centers   A comprehensive Housing
Sector Policy is being carried out with PPF financing and, together wita the
experience gained through the proposed sites-and-services and housing operations,
should allow the Government to ascertain the soundness of its development
strategies and to initiate discussions on pcssible future assi'tance to the
sector with the donors' community. The objective of the Housing Sector Policy
would be to provide the Government the necessary elements for a thorough
reorientation of its policies in this sector and, in particular, to establish
the basis for a gradually broadening involvement of the private sector in the
promotion and development of housing activities.
C. Cost Recovery
15.   Increases in operating expenditures for solid waste collection services
caused by the expansion of the vehicle fleet would be covered through a
concurrent rise in the municipal revenues that is expected to result from the
property tax and land lease tariff reform ehich would be undert3ken as part of
the Municipal Action Plan (para 13 above).
16.   Site development costs would be recovered through lease payments by the
allottees on terms and conditions which are being studied by the Government with
technical assistance under the PPF. Agreement on the criteria for allocations
of plots-and houses to be developed under the project will be a condition for
disbursement for the sites and services and housing component. The unit cost
for a regular 300 sq. m. plot is estimated at US$1,000. Assuming a maximum of
25 percent of total household income be devoted to housing expenditure such plots
would be affordable to between 40 and 50 percent cf the urban population.
Demonstration houses would be allocated upon completion under terms and
conditions agreed with IDA.
D. Implementation Arrangements
17.   Overall responsibility for the implementation of the urban component would
lie with MES. Because of the similarity of the proposed works with those carried
out under SIRP. and the expected partial overlap of the two projects, most
arrangements for the actual management of the works implementation would be kept



- 85 -
Annex 3-6
Page 6 of 6
identical. This would imply, in particular, maintaining the Technical Office
(TO) set up under SIRP in MES, and ensuring its adequate staffing with local
technicians and technical assistance experts.  As for SIRP, this unit would
assist MES, both administratively and technically, in all phases of
implementation of the project and, especially, would assume responsibility for:
Ci)   Coordination and monitoring of project implementation by the
Bissau Municipality and local authorities in secondary centers
(ii)   Bidding and contract management
(iii)   Preparation of quarterly progress reports
(iv)   Monitoring of plot allocation, site occupation, and performance
of cost recovery in Bissau and iecondary centers.
18.   Under these arrangements, all procurement for the Bissau Mu.nicipality
subconponent would be carried out by MES which, subsequently, would transfer
acquired equipment and supplies, as well as provide technical assistance to the
municipality. Property transfer of infrastructures included in the sites-and-
services operations to the Bissau Municipality or the local authorities in the
secondary centers would made upon completion of the works in accordance with
procedures agreed with IDA.
AFTIN
October 1989



- 86 -
Annex 3-6
Attachment 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Urban Program - Detailed Costs
(USS thousand)
Quantity       Unit Cost       Local      Foreign          Total
A.SolTd Waste Collection
Containor Trucks                       2 No.          34             0         166             lo6
Containers                            16 No.           1.3           0          23              23
Loader                                 1 No.         100             0         100             100
Spare Pert.                                          n.0             0          30              30
Misc. Equip;mt                       _._.                            0          14              14
Sub-Total                                                            0         335             335
0.Site Devwlop ment and Housing
Sites-end-Services  Bissu             470 Plot         1            180        280             460
Sites-nd-Services: Sec. Centers       260 Plot.        1            100        166             265
Demonstration Housing                                n.e.           145        30S             450
Sub-Total                                                           426        740            1165
C.Technical Assistance
UES-DOQU                               30 i-i          8             24        216             240
Bisseu Municipality                    20 i-i          a             16        144             160
Sub-Total                                                            40        360             400
D.Offic, Equipment and
Supplioe  (DGHU and Siesau Municipality)                              0         60              6o
E.Housing Policy Study (PPF)                                         13        107             120
TOTAL (USI thousand)                                                476       1602            2060



- 87 -                      Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
1.        Project base costs have been estimated at December 1989 prices
based on estimates prepared by MES/SET and their consultants, and the
Appraisal mission. An exchange rate of lUS$ = G Peso 2,600 has been used.
The detailed cost estimates are shown in Attachments 1 and 2. For road
maintenance operations, the costs do not include salaries and wages of road
brigades. Also, for Public Transport Companies the costs do not include
capital investments or costs to replace or operate equipment, vehicles and
boats which will be financed out of generated earnings.
2.        Physical contingencies have been applied as follows:
(a) 102 for road rehabilitation and feeder road improvements; and
road maintenance equipment;
(b) 52 for (i) institutional support covering equipment, vehicles,
office remodeling, technical assistance and training, (ii) the
urban program covering equipment and servicing of housing plots
and houses; and
(c) 02 for road maintenance operations covering a five-year (1990-
94) time slice based on budget allocations.
3.        Price contingencies have been applied to the base costs plus
physical contingencies. For foreign costs, the estimated inflation rates
are 7.2Z in 1990 and 4.42 thereafter. For local costs, the inflation rates
used are 252 in 1990, 152 in 1991 and 82 thereafter. It is expected that
the Government will continue to adjust the exchange rates in line with
foreign currencies.
4.        The financing plan (Attachment 3) is still tentative since only
UNDP has pledged support. Project components that are suitable for
cofinancing comprise principally the following packages: (a) assistance to
LEGUI; (b) overseas training fellowships; (c) trucks and spare parts for
RODOFLUVIAL; (d) workshop renovation, a service vehicle and spare parts for
repairing part of SILO DIATA's bus fleet; (e) rehabilitation works for
roads, streets and ferry crossings; (f) feeder roads improvement and
technical assistance in labor-based works and maintenance; (g) expansion of
solid waste collection in Bissau; and (h) replacement and additional
equipment for road and street maintenance.



GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Phasing of the Implementation
I           ATAITT  CDP FWS                 TOTAL COST
Toteal ha.                                   (               (1e.cledias Cmtiaosocis;)
TOTAL                         IuMi         coat    T Of   T        ---------------------------        ----------
--- - --------------------                Cost   of co_ommat TI*T IS:             f'" 'i 92  '93  'S4 '%"M.   Local  Pacaiga   To" a
MlCA. tL             TOTAL   WV. coit   (L)        (M5 '@00) WL  FUICS.  Y0 1            n VI  VS  n3 V4  VA   S CO-ff-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                               -- -- ---------  -- - - -_--                 tLu  
A. Ia tltutlsasi 0 t
(a) Prajos Cosmdi.tiom Unit (t01)         74.0      11.0      740.0    7d M                       740      100  .909   S   300   N ,       Ui        Ua      is       M       a"
(b) Viael,s. owupst sa" aulisa             0.0     300.0   X 0.0                                  20            10001  Uw  800 200 i0  l0         Mi        0   O           34
Cc) l_tied  I i_o  & &auaaa for T.A.      00.0     140.0       00.0                               20      So    701  0M  400                                 75       114      m
(I I) SU! strm@th.alu.
(a) Tleicsl Aeatoac . (TUO        1, 4.    1.1100    1.20.0   1N  M                             1,240    1to      0.  SM 2M   1n            a        aU    15        .m     1.m
(b) Laoabse. apipst.& mapoiase             0.0     210.0      3o0.0                               100           10059   s   an   Se LOs 1s0          M       0       20       s0o
(a) Wsqtbw rsmdal i ag(S)                 80.0      70.0      100.0                               100      an   700.  400  aS                        a       Sy       7u      1S1
(d) Irwapat sets  studies                 80_0     170.0  ' 00.0                                   M0      lot   Sol        Iou  M        am         is      41       M0      s41
(; | |) LiR Isegilmma
(II) |_ . os. oLeeI1  S0sa saho                                                                                                                                                            00sr<
(a)  Oglm                                   .0      30.0      30.0                                ]so           10009  M   M   M   1we 100           a       0        my7     an0
Ct)  ds6"Mag                               9.0      31.0       8O.O                               80      M      ml 9400 O                                  11       se       8
(e) Teuicmi Alsstaa                       1.0       180.0      100.0     a                        IS 1O    1to    9      S   40    S       U aS              19       in      17
(d) Trahalag ibraed A$"* ol                8.5      81.11      8.0                                .1S      100   gt0  MS   M   an                    -        4        0       41
(s) _bmrisls                              95.9      110.1     2U5.0                               21U      40    Sl  M   MS   Ml  M   M              a      1i9       in      to
(ha) Tralahg poop
(a) Ct_sc. I. SI...                      121.2      40.5    1000.0                                 M       MS   000   MS   M   MS    215             M      I"       0z        111
(b) Cawie abroad                           0.0       0.0      221.0                               20            10009  1Sti      uS  US  140         a        0       m1       VI
(a) Vabl,sa. swipmeat NWd __ eias          0.0      114.0     114.0                               114           i0l  4n  4o   a0  Ss  u                       0       in 1O
(d) bIndsllie of Facilities               10.0      42.0       60.0                *0                     800   701 400  M                           a       3        47       of
(C) Teuiaag A.4i1w fros M       i        1U1.0    8.0        850.0   84                           M      100 IOiml  M   MU        in iU            Ua       4 lli            41*
C.) Audhtlag of Projec bad T.C.0           40.0     80.0       40.0                                40      US    m09l        2   211 211  W           U       SS      441      496
(vi) Pr.jsc Praprsim                         0.0   1.8o.0   1.30.0                                3.100           100  100                             0s      0    1.814   I.4
Im_l1tlb.tl   umrt saa Coat          '         .0    0.3.4    #."Sf.c
Pglcel Chatiaemeiss                        80.0      241.0     274.6
Pris Caatlaos.chas                        146.8      001.4     707.7                                                                                         --      ---          -----
a_sti S si_1 Support ToSl Coat               37.9   7.2150.    0,057.4                                                                                         M        .t0    6.007
lb  :3 
P u,. X.
u0 n
Sb*h 



ACTIVITIE COST PtttSI#C           TOTAL cOSr
Total  1s                                       (s)              (lncl..dia Costimsenc   )
TOTAL                          tJn.t         oant    * OF COST         -                    -------         -------------------------
____.__________-____.-.--                   Coat    of coaponnt  T,KAT Is:        '90  '1  '92  '91   4'U   'S FlS.    Local   Foreign  Total
LOCAL  Ft1IO          TOTAL    OTY. wnit   (tI)    (UI 'G00) LOCAL   FOPEtfI5    I  T2 n          84   VS   YS COT       -----   -------
-     ---------                   ____      _------     ---.---    --  -- --   -  -    ---------           ----                                                  (tUSS     00fi)
8.Tranaort. Companiaes(I00
(i) Sil OlaitF
(a) supot vehiclee and apero parte           0.0        5.0      625.0                                 82              lDl 0   0s 50                         I        0 att  oW*
(b) Irhbgp Aseitae* freo  T0               14.4       12.        144.0    10 N                        144      106    WSJ 10s  50                           Bs       17       lob     A*"
(e) asiel mIg of Facil; ies                 21.0       49.0        70.0                                 70      lOS    7065  aos  50o                        5t      2(         SS       s0
(ii) Uadefluvial
(a) lare. Trewd. aN  apape Pacto             0.0    i.(t.O   1.0.0                                  I'M               106lO W0s  40                         aso    0        1.751    1.7T1
(b) Workshop Aeslataea fr. 10Xt             14.4      129.8       144.0     t ob                       144      1S0   PO65  us0   Ns                         Gs       7        15 S      1 
(d ) JA
(a) Wotrhoqp Aclatene free TCl              14.4       12.8      144.0      1 lb                       144      1o0   0065  aes  Ws                          5s      17        I4"      188
OD
(;v) T                                                                                                                                                                                              %C
(a) Worksto  Assitance feres TCl            14.4      129n.       144.0    is No                       I4       101 lO1l 801  8OS                            as       17       145      I"1
TIanapoet Coianlee Omse Cost                   7t.8   2,792.4    2.071.0
Fbhgica Cant.apaci.e                         3.9       189.0      143.5
Price Cut.ioncies                             13.0      182.       15.9                                                                                               ---     -----    ----
Trasort Caspases Total Coat                    95.1    1.114,.    3,210.4                                                                                                Of     t.11    *.210
C.  1ad Iafast,t     Peora
-- --------------------^----                                                                                                                              MMtS 
(i) IbA. of Vowed res                       2.0  4*,006.8   4,819.8   1,2 Km            2,8.00       4,JZ       156   88l 10 2S 65  2   28  1               101     992     8.17       ,170
(1) Bekab of urbn satrate,                  10.0       80.0    1.000.0   a    P         200,000       1.0        186    851    U   206        2S  US         son     208      I.a6s    1,2*8
(Mi) Iakb". of unpaved read                  541.0    2.184.0   2,708.0  1t9 Ns           1.000        2.708      20    801 106 2511 255286  1U               101     742     2.7 a   8.4??
(iv) Los cost. paving                        480       272.0      120.0    is Ka         20.000          0o      in    8815         w0   M                   1o1      84                19"
(a) toepewoemt of faedereroed              857.a      96.4    1,844.0   18 Km           10.000       1848       406    WS6   86  206  258  10   205         11011    91      1u253   2.178
(wi) Labor-baeed aorta aesatne.              98.0      164.0      980.0                                 "80      to    gal  no  no  g    1s6   as             M      121     1.007    1. I1
(vii) Cometoct.ion ot Ferry Raa.             140.0       40.0       00.0                                 so       206    SC65  so   s                         01     204       7s0      984
(viii) ohe vehicular furry                      0.0      210.0      200.0                                 200       01   lo0        10DS                      1o0       0       241      241
(i ) Tecnical assistane (TO)                180.0   1.0.0    1,800.0   200 b                         1,S"*      101    WSJ 206  20e  20  2011 206            M      235     1.948    2. 179  .v      :l..
(a) Equip.nt Raplec_*                        0.0    1,70.0    1,700.0                                1.00 no     as   106         an   M                    o0       0     2.004   2.004
00  nt :
1ad afeat.ructuer  Preogram os. Coat       2,W 5.6   tS.303.2  154.                                                                                                                                n  X
fhuait.l Contingancies                      241.      1,25.1    1, 45 8 .
Pric; Cont..e|pncios                         4.2    2.025.    2,710 t                                                                                              - -    ------   ------  0           
Roed lafrset.rctw.  Prog.ea Total Cost      3,.411.8   18, 83. 2   20,118.8                                                                                          3A.42    16.83    20.118 _



I           ACTIVITIES COST PAtSIlIC          TOTAL COST
Total  e                 g                     (S)              (Icl,.d,ne Continens oe)
TOTAL                          unit         cost       OF COST        ---                                             -
-----------------------                    Coot   of component THAT IS:         'C0  *1  '92  '9   '94  '95 PWS       Local  ForaiWs  Total
COMOET                       LOCAL    FPIEIG       TOTAL   4TY. unit   (USS)   (USS '0O0) LOCAL  FP ICdI Yl  Y2   Y3  Y4   Y5  Y6 CCiT    -----  -------                -
:____ - ---                            -----    --- ---                          --    - - -          -- -0 --                                           tU8 000)
0. Urban Program
(iG .bage end  ffice eipment                0.0      395.0      595.0                                395            10011       753  253                 5        0       450      459
() Serviced Plots a DO_on-tn. H"ouse       407.8       757.3    1.165.0                              1,145    U5    l551         203  253  30S 25S         56    546          4    1.460
t;;;) Teds. Aaoiet.D(0 * a Siam. Un.)        40.0      360.0      400.0    so me                       400      103    WSJ &A  30   203  10   103          53      St       420      471
Urbs. Program sea  Cost                       447.6    1,512.3    1,960.0
P5yssici Contigencies                       22.4         5. 6      96.0
Price Costioganc;ia                         125.9      22e.2      353.1                                                                                            -       -----
Urbe  Progrm  Total Cost                      597.0    1.814.1   2,411.1                                                                                             597     1.,14    2.411
E. bawd  lsintence Operations
bad  .isteasc_e  Operations; 1990         41010        7200    1,200.0                            1,200.0     405    5031 1003                              6    540        746    1.26       0
bind Mintence Operations: 1991             572.0      868.0    1,430.0                            1,430.0     401   601         100                       O      61          4 U 0    1.321
bed Holetamence Operations: 12             600.0      900.0 10,60.0 1O,8O.O                                   403    631            IOOS                  Os     745      1.029    I,m
baod Ibientamee Oprations. 1993 on       1,S24.0   2,256.0   3,610.0                              3,610.0     402    6031                 453  553        OS   2,024     2.796    4.,02
band Heistance Operations Osea  Cost       3.176.0   4,764.0    7,90.0
riksical Continencioam                       0.0         0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                         613.7      747.2   1,560.9                                                                                          -----     -----    -----
bemd Moainncas Operatione Total Cost       3,969.7   5,511 2    9,800.9                                                                                            3,990    6.511    9,801
TOTAL POJET MaE COST                        6,916.5  23.796.3  35,714.6
PHYSICAL CUETIN0CIES                       301.0   1,672.2   1,973.2
PRICE COrTDI0CIES                         1,784.1   3,1123.5   5,607.6                                                                                            _         -       -
TOTAL P.WBT Cosr                            9,001.7  34,293.9  43,295.6                                                                                           9002   34.294   43.29e
00 n X
GO 5'? I
ith 0    _
n1
Li~ 



OJONEh 8186A.
ISmClREF R1LftATI4 ffDT
COST TA.IE
(BMa Cost: Dec. SI, 1ow)
(Sr 'ODO)
TOTAL        R        I  1: .184W 1990            1E* 2: _V+QM 1991          SR 3: J4)EC 1992          VEA 4 .A-OEC 1993          16EA  5S: -1  1944
CIe4T                    UEM.  I G4    TOTAL           LOA.   FU4          TOTAL    LOCA    fWO    TOTAL    LOAL   F33E    TITAL    LDAL  0GI    TOUTAL    LOCAL   FUW1G              TOA
A. IotiteaUoml sm.ot
(i) NSStrwvgthbeing
(a) ProjectA Caord,nti A 1it (P00      74.0    668.0    Z40.0       22.2     19.8    Z22.0A    22.2   199.8  m .0          22.2    199.6   222.0      3 7     33.3  J7 0         3.7  3a   3      37 0
4b) Vehicle., speepsnt so .,pl i_s     0.0    2C0.0    200.0         0.0      60.0    60.0       0.0    60.0    60.0       0.0    40 0      40.0      0.0     300      20 0      0.0    2D 0      20 0
(c) A    tiI ins A "amm  tr T.A.       0.0    140.0    200.0       35.0      84.0    120.0    24 0      88.0    E0.O     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0
(ii) ST Stia.ghming
(a) Techical Aistas (MO               124.0  1,118.0   1.240.0      62.0    866.0   62D.0    31.0   279.0   310.0          18.8    167.4    168.0     6 2     55.S    62.0       6.2    56.8    Q2 0
(b) L1And.. e_ipst.& a1i_m             0.0    240.0    250.0         0.0      75.0    75.0      0.0      75.0    75.0      0.0     60.0    80.0       00      25 0     25 0      0.0    2S.0    25 0
(c) _orhake reind.llIag ; C)           30.0     70.0  IOD.0         12.0      28.0    40.0    18.0    42.0  D0.0           0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0 0        0 O
(d) TrerA l mo alali                   30.0    270.0    360.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      3.0     27.0    3D.0       9.0    81.0    90.0       e.0    61.0      10.0      9.0      2.0    0.0
(i;;) a Str e_;ngtina
(a) E*.ip.t                            0.0    240.0    2S0.0         0.0      84.0    84.0      0.0      84.o    84.0      0.0    5S 0      se.o      0.0    2S.0    24.0        0.0     24.0     240
Ct) _minis I.no                         9.0     21.0      30.0       3.6       8.4    !2.0      1.4      12.8    18.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0.0      00 o
(c) Techical AmistanS. 13.0    111.0                      10.0       4.5      40.5    45.0       8.0    84.0    e0.0       3.0    27.0    30.0        0 a      6 8      7.5      0.6      4.6      z s
(d) Training abmad A local              3.1     31.8      35.0       0.7       8.3      7.0      1.6    18.8    17.I       1 1      e.5     10.15      00 0o     0      0 0      0.0      0.0      00 
(.)bterial                             96.9    11.1    215.0        19.8      23.2    43.0    19.6      2.2    43.0        19.     23.2    43.0    19.8    23.2    43           19.8     1.2    4 0
Ci.) T';ino Prowas
(a) Cores in Bi_ma                     21.2    464.8    601.0       21.8      87.3   109.1    21.6    e7.3   109.1    24.7    106.7   13.3    25.1   101.8    127.3    25 5    101.8   127 3
(b) Comtpas abami                      0.0     Z1s.0   23.0          0.0      27.0    27.0      0.0    51.8    11.8        00      0.0      83.0      0.0 10     a     51.8      0.0    b1.5    31 5
(c) Vehicles, aqip..t and sop, ias     0.0    114.0      114.0       0.0      47.9    47.9      0.0    47.9    47.9        0.0      b.1      8.8      0 0      5.7      5.7      0.0      6.7     s 7
(4) d  ell ns of Foci itige            18.0     42.0      60.0       6.1      18.9    27.0      9.9    24.1    33.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     00
(a) Traino Advisor luau PWo            35.0    318.0    3s0.0       12.3    110.3   122.5       6.1     72.3      W.8      6.0    33.6    89.5        4.      41.0    4S.S       4.2    81.8    42.0
(a) Auditing of Projoct Oan T.C.s      40.0    360.0    400.0         0.0       0.0     0.0    10.0    'D.0    . s.0       10.0    90.0   100.0    10.0    90.0 sD0.0    10.0    90.0  o00.0
(as) Projt Prrtion                       0.0  1300.0   1,800.0        0.0   1,300.0  1,800.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0
bibutatmaal  _Port Br  Cot               08.8   6,336.4  6,996.0      202.9   2,966.5  3,181.5    180.9  1,80D.   1,481.7    118.2   973.9  1,090.2    79.4    s82    642.7    79.1   80.9    619.0
Naelcal Cmatlua;ies                     32.9    241.0    274.6       10.1      72.9    63.1      9.0      5.0     74.1      5.8    46.7    84.5        4.0    2a.2    12.1        4.0     27.0    SD.9
Pric cm,inWcises                       14.3    641.4    7a7.7        2e.8     109.1    131.6    38.0   130.6   148.6    29.5    147.0   176.6    26.7    114.6    ue9.e    29.4    136.8   1i  2
hAtitsimi Sport Todl Cost               87.9   7.219.8   8,087.4      209.7  3,140.6  3.3110.3    2.0  1,496t.4  1,722.4    181.8  1,169.7  1,321.3   106.1   706.a   814.4   112.4   70.7   419.1
00 n   1
Pn I
I.,' 3
It
9.',



(1a. Coat Oac. 31, 196)
Oss '000)
TOTAL                 SR 1: J#R-C 1990     I     WO R 2: ,1-EC 1991        YER 3. .A-fEC 1992         YEA 4: JAI-3C 19943       TSARS. .4MC 19w
03498041                 LOCAL  U1GN    MOAL    LOCAFL FXG                TOTAL    LOCAL  flIG      TOT      LOCAL 0O4   TOTAL    LOCAL   FO0            TOTrAL,   LAL   fXW0      TOTAL
i. Tran_rt Caeeie_
(,) Sil1 Dials
(a)  Spat vdicele NW *are pat"         0.0    625.0    W25.0        0.0    312.5   312.5       0.0   312.5    312.5       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
(b) 1eI I m  Aso'setoms fr TO)        14.4    129.6    144.0        7.2      64.5    72.0       7.2  i4.        72.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      00 
(e) FbhaMlia of FociI iteia           21.0      49.0     70.0      10.5      24.5    35.0    10.5    24.5       35.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0 0
(ii) Re6w"ial
(a) brga, ThickS wO Wore pat s         0.0   1,60.0   1.600.0       0.0    960.0   060.0       0.0   640.0    60.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
(b) 16  i    .skete fri T1U           14.4    i29.       .44.0      7.2      64.      72.0     7.2    64.5    12.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
(a) 1      Amaislaw.  fm  TOJ         14.4    129.6    144.0        7.2      64.      72.0      7.2     4.5    72.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0     0.0
(iv) TAW
(a) 1" e   AsaWele  frm T1U           14.4      29.6    144.0       7.2       4.5    72.0      7.2    54.5    72.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Tnummort  C_miem baw Coot                76.6   2,7924   2.71.0       39.3   1,56.2  1,I59.5    S9.3  1,29.2  1,275.5       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Pical Coati mes                         8.6    139.6      14.6       2.0      77.      79.5     2.0    61.*      0.6       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Prim CantlaaIs                         18.0    1112.9    104.9       5.2     56.5   i4.0         7.6   I24.1    111.9      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      ..0     0.0
Tr owpae Cagpmies ToW Co                 45.5   3.114.0   8,210.4     46.4   1,62.0  I,789.5    49.1  1,45.1  1,471.2        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
C. bad Zaraalro  Flow
(hj bad. of pawed med                725.0   4,096.5   4,619.0     72.3    409.7    452.0   150.7  1,024.2  1,205.0  1O.?  1,30.2  1,204.0    10.7  1,40.2  1,35.0  #15.4   614.5    13.0
(Ii) dtho at w    Ireat               16.0    N50O.0   1,000.0       7.5      42.5    60.0    30.0   170.0    20.0    45.0  215.0    00.0    87.5   212.5    =D.0    80.0   170.0    NO.0
(;ji) baa. of emvd Mads                5461.0   2,16.0   2,705.0     64.1    228.4   270.5   1851.2   641.0       7.2   15.2   841.0   87.2   -15.2   641.0_ . 6.2             6.1    NO.6   4Qi.7
(IV) i&  c_di gava                     4t.0    272.0     uO.0        0.0      0.0      0.0    24.0   186.0   180.0    24.0  1J5.0    100.0           0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
(.) I_roid fadar roads               67.6      6.4   1,64.0        J2.9      49.5    *2.2   181.5   197.S    7.6    1i4.4   246.6   411.0   197.8  23t.9    4U0.2   il1.5   197.8    ao.o
(vi)     i     a_l. mIatane            96.0    414.0   960.0        24.6     N5.2    NO.0    26.6   21.2    NO.0    19.2    S.    142.0    14.4              0.6    14.0       4.6    4S.2      40.0
(vii) Carmuila of P     Rap.           161.0    640.0    600.0      60.0    800.0   400.0    60.0    11D.0   400.0          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
(vMii) O. v,imlar ferry                  0.0   230.0    200.0         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    S0.0    20.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
(in) Telml .aaiatoa (r0)              1O6.0  I,Z00.0   1,600.0      36.0    3514.0   80.0    56.0   N21.0  380.0    lt.0           1.0   380.0    86.0    814.0   810.0    d9.0        Z4.0    NO.0
(a) FPl_pam  Appacmu- t                0.0   1,7Q0.0   1,700.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0   650.0    UD.0       0.0    660.0   160.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
iad Jnfraaructare Phw. Ie  Co at      2,55.4  13,868.2  15,641.5    311.6   I,80.1 1,9T2.7    646.8  4.,2.7  4,666.0   C64   5,.6  4,154.2   601.2  2,012.2  3,3.4               l.6  1,48.6  2,0U.6
Rayeiol Cmr_Cemgi_,                   241.6   1,218.1   1,415.9     27.9     235.0   160.9    41.4   373.0   484.4    57.?   8II.1   867.0    57.S  230.0  237.6    67.2   149.0    U1.2
Pri Ceatieiucird            W4.2   2,30.9   2,710.1                 42.4      53.1    73.6    154.8   421.1   814.3   160.3 51 7.6   71.2   195.5   66.2  72 .7    151.6   445.    6N.&
_ad bfrasnrctare Poop   Total Coat    3,481.6  3i.Ui4.2  12D,I.1    38.9  1,.07.2  2,190. I      12.0  4,14.   5,6851.7    a2.6  4,4S7.6  5,260.2      4U.2  8,2U.6  4. M4.7   40.6  2,212.5  2.M.0
00 rn  :
0 MX
Ci



(go". Ct:. Oepc. 31. 196)
TOTAL                V8A 1: .IM-00C 1990         VW 2: .4*EC 191    s        A 3: .I-EC 192            ER 4. .He-Os 1993  _      I  S: .39w 199
---------- ---             - - _--- - ------ --------                                                       ---------- - --- __ - ---- -  ---- - -_-___-----------
aToeq                    LOCAL   FaWm        TOTAL    LOCAL    F1I0  tgULOTAL    UXAL   F1ai   TOTLF   LOAL LC       fWO    TOTAL    LOCAL   F DGO  lOT/A.   1.0M    F14   IT0AL
0. _us Proene
(V) 0aebo  an office .mimnt            0.0    895.0    8es.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0   296.8   296:3       0.0     9.6    96.0        0.0     0 0      0.0      0.0      0 0     0 0
(ii) serviced Plt. a  ,.tn. "am"      40.0    757.3  .1165.0         0.0       0.0      0.0    01.8   151.5  Z3.0    101.9    1t.S3   291.3   12.8   227.2   349.?.   101.9    1t.3   2913
(ill) Teds. Asit.SOU A Bi mwlta.)       40.0     No.0    400.0       12.0     1.0   320.0    12.0   100.0   1m.0            0.0    72.0    o0.0       4.0     3.0    4C.0        4.0     5.0     40 0
1tote P,Wee Dee Cst                     447.6   1.52.5s  I,9.0        12.0    10.0    120.0      es.   am5.?    49.3   10.9   380.1   470.0    10.3   F3.2    39.5    VS.#   22 3                 331.
Phsiclc CGwAint mciOe                   M2.4     75.4      96.0      0.6       5.4      6.0      4.7    27.6    89.5       5.5    U8.0   21.5        6.3      18.2    19.5      5.8    11 s       6
Price c_tlagusiee                      16.9    223.2       M.A       1.6       4.1      5.7      8.0    565.0    74.4    27.9    54.4    628         894      58.6    9.0  9.0 30.4              el I
tote  r _m Totl Coet                    697.0   1.1U4.1   2.411.1     14.2     U7.5   131.7   116.9    6e.a    76.1    148.4   489.4   575.0   172.0    3O.0    50.0   110.6   2"4.    45b s
L Need lelatememce O#rotimw
Rfo  Ola_imme Operatio:  e190         460.0    7o.0  1,2m0.0    460.0    720.0  1.00.0         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      00
ond RobIa9mu,  operations 191         a2.0       0.0   1.43D.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    72.0    e0.0  1,430.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0
1ed t5ints_mce Qpe,.ticm: 191t2        00.0    0.0   1.30.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   O6.0   900.0  1.80.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0 0
blud Obimuc 4tiaenm  1.0 an    1,4.o   2.3.0   5,01o.0              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    6f.6  1a..7  1.714.5    _.2  L.25.3  2.0 56
PA" Ibinteeanc bermtim bee Cot        3.1.7.0   4.764.0   7.040.0    460.0    1D.0  1.230.0    572.0    66.0  1,41.0   6OD.O    90.0   .w.00    665.6  I.OW.7  1.71.4.5    6.2  1.2.3  2.056  
tsz.elCe CAWinIeRiS                     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      00       00      0.0
Price Castinecise                     61.7    747.2  15.D9    60.0           25.9    65.9   100.5    62.0   190.5   145.2   129..   274.6   203.5            99 7    400 2    265    210. 1    am6
1ad lbin _Op erutio; Total Co"        3.905.7   5,511.2   9.5eo.9    60.0    745.9  1.285.9    60.5   940.0  1'M.5    ra.2  1.O  4  1.774.4    66.5  1.,22.4  2.U7.7  1.184.7  1,537.4  2.102.
TOlTAL  rALT W    17                   6,916.5  3,796.8  66.714.6   I,5.6   0,965.6  6,009.0  1.02.1  7.972.4  9,604.5  1,4D.0  5,7S.6  7.214.4  1.462.7  4,30.4  5,05.1- 1.4181  8.696.1I  5,I1.2
10951CAL  SWC30                       DI.O   I.M72.2   1,971.2     40.6     39.1    8n.7    77.1    &7.0    04.7    89.0           6.0    4a.6    67.9    271.4    39S 8      40 4     67.3   23S 7
"Om        E s3133cz                 1,M. 1   3,30.5   5,0O7.6    135.5    231.1    86.9   305.5   012.5  1,117.7    s.0    60.7  1.251.?   405.0   9S0.4  1.3.4    517.0   097.9  1.474 
lUlL PR"    COST                      9.0a1.7  34.2.9  48,265.6   1,22.3  7,514.0  6,1.5  1914.4  9.312.5 11U,.   1,6M.6  7,009.1  6,951.9  2.00.6  S.67. 1.  7. NO.6  1.9h..  4,041.2  .6.10.8
S) rt~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 _                                                                             T
OQ rt 0
n x
o  M  I
O   I 



NhR4t.ffl ilS          ATInON IAD ELT
FMW  F114"M
leTWL  TD S
the& - io  C mi_onces_)         ODrnmn                    MA             WW {*i}                   ITIFfIID           LDC        (S"bi-0)      FAC (se_X*ivo)
L1Oa   fai.lp   Total  Loc.  FPw.  ToLI   Lc.  FrPi.  Total  Loc.  fPo.   Totel  La.  Fep.  Total  Lac   FPp    Totel  eLo.  frp.  TOtl
memedr                      ---   - -    ---   ---   ----
GM  VW)              M)    () (16ODO)   (1)         SLS'00D)   (U)    M  (1     O) (U)   MU  (LU W'0)   M1    M5 (L              )   M      (  OWDO)
A. btatAitim.rs _port
(.) Proj.ct coordiftsoio thit (MA          46       77       m                       0    ion    0m       66                       0                      0                     0                      0
(b) vihicles. quipment an swplii            0       24       234                     0         1          250                      0                     0                      0                      0
(c)      Ullino Itu s for T.A.             73       US       2a   ls                36    Six S1CI        15                       a                      0                     0                      0
(ii) SU Strem4lUmting
(a) Taduiicl Ammid_tooa (tT7)             153    I.2m    1,42                        0    lOD4  son   1.4Di                        0                      0                     0                      0
(b) LaunMd_, i.a pm0LA &.uep.               a       2        2W2                     0            0m      2w                       0                      0                     0                      0
(c) We4itbh   rmoWlliae (D)                3?        79      115    as               is    Om   loo        9?                      0                      0                     0           o1
(4) Tiw_Dpot _o~e ski_.                    41       Mill     we      MS             U      3     3IO                               0                      0                     0                      0
(iii) LOUI SI,ousthm,o
(a) 6ai_mt                                  0       S17      37                      0           1015    37                        0                      0                     0                      0 
(b)b.d.lliig                                 11    24         35    us               5       S   mm        29                      0                      0                     0                      0
(e) Tdicl Aist no                          14        S       175                     0    105   YI0       175                      0                      0                     0                      0
(d) Tmiia bdW a locsl                       4        3        41                     0                      0                      0    1005   100S      41                     0                      0
()btrial#                                 126       ult      2U    lo        I OJ                 am   7                           0            Ws       70                     0                      0
(u.) T"iuiiw Prora
(a) C m  in sisam                         159   fS4          743                     0    1O0   100       743                      0                     0                      0                      0
(b)Cmunaaabmod                              a       211      271                     0       O      S     tO                       0            amS  O                          0                      0
(a) Vduicl... eqipmeiu  en  .pli.           0       U13      U                       0           1 0      t o                      0                     a                      0 o
(4) R.llinof Fecelitim: 22                           47       so    M1              11    MS   15          as                      0                     0                      0                      0
(f) Training Adiuw fm*  P<                 44       3U       4U                      0    1015  1015    413                        0                     0                      0                      0
(.) Adiin    Project and T.C-               53       442      446    am              2      Ms   101       440                      0                     0                      0                     0
(vi) P,o..t Pr.waration                       0     1,254    1.254                     0      O      0    1,5'                      0                      0                      0                     0
lrwtihiti.al ISupt fatal Cost                m       7.22D    *.057                   247                  7,55                       0                   245                      0                      0
00  n
om I
4(1



Q#VDEA SISAJ
MMtSTRAClM fO AIL TATIC4 MW&
iT FDVCDC
TtiTL Tw
(lldiag Cowtiagomi s)          2.6mnmt                  MA            kw    (steativ)          wiui'WzD           t1CDF (bo..at-)    UAC (S_Se.)
Loal  f.r il   TeOal  Loc.  Frt.  Total  Soc.  Fr0 .  Totl  Loc.  Frgn.  Tout  t=.  Frg    Total  Loc   frp.  Total  So.  FrP.  Total
-                                   -       --     ---  ---    _---    _                                                             - -    _                                    -
------                            w  low)            ('O)  (s  Ms IOU          acs Z) w  VW)  C1)   (1t)  (L" '0a00)C1        B   " M(1  O low)   C1) ()  ^
S. T,ort Cmp_.
(;) iIIoDista
() bport dicie. w,d spare parka           0       an      ON                      0            101     70                     0           9S    w2e                       0                     0
(b) Wa I    Aiemc* f ro 1W               17       14W      km                     a      i    1015    16                      0                     0                     0                     0
(e) P.i_         ofdPr FociIi.ies        2f        as      go    0W               13                    0                     0       5   10Wm     Go                     0            .        0
Qi) i_ofwlsi
(a) brp. UK   WA Tns w    pSr.            0    1.7ti    1.7S                      0            343    am                      0           in   1.175                      0                     0
*) Sbh*Ap 6ssi04wbce Eros TO              17      145      168                    0    1o01   I0      18                      0 o                   0                                           0
(iii) .
(a) b_~imap AmioAeno from TOJ            17       14m      10                     0    10o   10i1     10                      0                     0                     0                    0
(lv) T
(a)  m       Amitance fro  TOJ            17      148      168                    0   1015  125       1l                      0                     0                     0                     0
Tr_me    Ca_os TrAtot Cost                    i   3.115   8.210                      la               1.=                       0                 1.,2                      0                     0
C. ibd Offrst.ructurs Preorm
(i) _41. of pivod COWS                 692    5.17S   6.170    815              406    I5    30   2.04S                       0    XS   641   ,01                         0                    0
(ii) aiI of orbm  stresta                206  I,.CS    125    eta                104    25    25       8                       0    22    WIS   am                         0                    O
(;; ) bb*. of reravd moad.                742    2.7      3.471  sU               3n      US   2Y       m o0    US    7M   2.,0                                            0                     0
(hv) Le Omt_paios                         64       3W      8S      25             32   8am 0           8J7                     0                    0                      0                    0
) lovmw t of feder ro"                  915    1.21i3   2.117                     0                     0                    0                     0   101   IO     2.178                      0
(vi) -    er4_md  ortis miate            121    1,007   0.121                      0                     0   I1    I=    1,1 i                      0                     0                     0
(vii) coneSnc, do Ferry Rem"              204       750     956    m15            102    20    M        42l                     0    2 1    l      42ti                    0                     0
(v.ii) b.v d-u ;elo f rra                    0       261     241                     0          1I0    241                      0                     0                     0 
(is) Te"ical mi -twnc  (TO)              2SS    1.06    2.110                      0    1o01   10c   2.17                      0                    0                     0                     0
(.) 6ipmt Raplarnsurt                     0    2.014   2.09r                      0                     0                     0          1I=   2.004                     0                     0
t WmfresOetr re Pr_r  TOWl Cst            S.4     1,04  2D.116                    I.1 S,m                                    1,121 *076                                  2.17b                    0
Vns
91  rY



QAW euss
OJIIEA BISSAJ
D16ASTR.Cf.E   @aDL.TIAt  iAD=T
;t  FID4bC
TOTAL GM27
(lcSluieJ C,ntIncift)    wcornat                        IDAUW  ("1,                                                      (Sa Dtl e    *eD -)   FAC (944ti .)
Liss  Foeip   Toti  LSc.  Ftp.   Total  Loc .  Frg .  TLesi  Loc.  Ftp.  Yotal  Loc.  Frpin  TYAI  Loc.  Ftp    ToWi  Loc.  Frt    Towa
- -                       QAS60)              (1)   (M) (16'0       )   (5) (t) 6 0kW) ()    (5) 0t'000)   (1)   (5) (Lh6Ott)  (5)   (U) (LS 6ODD)  (5)   (11) oII              )
0. Utb.. Pnt3or_
(i) 0,tag  ae off,c* qospint               0       45       458                     0           255    115                      0                      0                     0            T7o    345
(; i) Sraiced Plot. A D. _tA. t_.         546      414    1.410 1D                 2n   9g   1Wm   1.4U                          0                      0                     0                     0
(1i;) T?e. A_O..t(V0.t wA .sa ft,n.)        51       4       471                      0    Wm    mgf   377                        0                      0                     0    201t    D       94
wban Progra  ae Cast
FRoil Continewncie
Price c<etusimci.s                        --      ----    ---                       --                  -                         _
nb. Pf'am. Total Cas                        so?7   1.4    2,411                       27                  1.95                     0                      0                     0                   439
E. lb" itinttw,c  irat,mw
PA"  Frintero.0 Iwati.as. 1990            840      746   1.M13     813            210    83a  1Loo   1.018                      0                      0                     0                     0
led ointawra     lWma*t.a: 199i           31       94O    1,m       70            StO 251       10    1.110                     0                      0                     0                     0            1
bAed lh.nta c Oan: 1992                   746    1,4M9    i,m       7             on9    2          1005  1.210                 0                      0                     0                     0
PAW 9tintsm.cw  L oat.am: 1993 as    2.C54    2.,96    4.,         1 to0        2.0W4  a        100   2.19                      0                      0                     0                     0           M
-----                -----
bAd lbiat.c.  ot,tiw. Total Cast          3.9i0  S5,1    9.501                     3.363                 6.S3t          O                     0                      0                                0
TOTAL IT    COT                           9.03    34.254  43.26                    4,7U9                23,601                  1.121                11,194                 2.17t3
iDn I:'
gao r  :I}
L a
M  i  .
O -i
I-,  *



- 97 -
Annex 3-8
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline of Participation Agreements with TCs
The Government of the Republic of Guinea. Bissau will. through
SET, enter into agreement (Participation Agreement) with each of the TCs
providing, inter alia, for the following:
(a) terms and conditions, including the terms of reference, of the
technical assistance to be provided to each TC, as described in
Annex 3-1 (B) of the SAR;
(b) setting of operational and financial targets for each TC
described in Section IV of the SAR (para 4.04 for RODOFLUVIAL.
para 4.09 for SILO DIATA, and para 4.14 for JAPG);
(c) adoption of the upgraded cost accounting and financial
management systems and of accounting procedures to be developed
under the Project, including annual auditing of accounts;
(d) privatization, restructuring, liquidation or other
reorganization, acceptable to SET and IDA, to be implemented by
January 1, 1992, including eventual changes in ownership or
management, required as part of the action plans for each TC
which will be furnished to IDA not later than March 31, 1991;
(e) in the case of TAGB, until the change in TAGB's organization is
effective:
(i)     it will not enter into any new agreements with EAS or
any other airlines for international or regional
services;
(ii)     it will not expand its regional services  beyond the-
present weekly schedule comprising one flight to
Dakar, two flights to Conakry and one flight to Praia;
(iii)     the cost of air tickets will remain at the same level
as competing airlines;
(iv)     air tickets purchased in Guinea Bissau by Guinean
nationals will be paid in G. Pesos at the current
exchange rate, foreign nationals will pay in foreign
currency;



- 98 -                           Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 2
(f) in the case of GUINEMAR:
(i)     its restructuring, including if necessary, private
participation in a manner satisfactory to SET and IDA,
by June 30, 1991;
(ii)     the repayment, by June 30, 1990, of all debt owed to
JAPG by GUINEMAR as of March 1. 1990, and the
repayment of all future bills owed to JAPG by GUINEMAR
within four months of the date of billing;
(g) repayment to MES by each of the TCs for any goods provided under
the Project to such TC by MES shall be in G. Pesos and shall
include the interest rate applied by the Banco Nacional da
Guine-Bissau to the priority sectors, with a repayment period of
20 years, or the useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter,
including a grace period of 5 years; and
(h) insurance and maintenance and repair of plants, machinery,
equipment and other property of the TCs.
AETIN
November 1989



- 99 -
Annex 3-9
Page 1 of I
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994       1995    1996
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Project Coordination (PCU)
Transport Coordination (TCU)
LEGUI Assistance
Remodelling and Houses
Vehicles and Equipment
Training Courses
Audits
TRANSPORT COMPANIES (TCs)
SILO DIATA
RODOFLUVWIAL
JAPG
TAGB
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
Paved Road Rehabilitation
Urban Street Rehabilitation
Unpaved Road Rehabilitation
Pilot Feeder Roads
Ferry Crcssings
Technical Office (TO)
URBAN PROGRAM
Solid Waste and Office Equip.
Serviced Plots + Houses
T.A. to DGHU and Bissau Mun.                                   _
ROAD MAINTENANCE
Operations



GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
cuose. .01
big  bt.m._     e     ;    _    (3
FV go                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~24-
35  6            ~~~~~0.00                    2
he.~    ~~~      ~~~~~ : _  : __
1 62           20             9.00
mr.    .5                    WIN4.D
Am.         0.0      3720.C0
'V_1                                         14
~~w  Hi     49 ~~~~~~006
AMb        15.                    40.01                                                                                                                                 C
12 .0          154            2.0                                                                                                                                  o 
3_4.0         511            4400                                                                                                                                  o t   
1110s.e    33.2      640000
31        7 .00.
AgoX                  4             ".Co                          4                                /
"W                                       ~~~~~~~~a
2
swilswo    '9.0      61            73.00
owl6         5. :1 .11o
"Web _                             AI 2D.=0
AM         1t21n3    6. a                                                                                                                U
Pr                                                                                                   SWfld WMff.
$106110,    21.0     6             2.400- PJ                                                                    4    P9I
D.   _@Zw  -0.  64           64.
_W6          'a21. I  0            W.:0
m          20.9      97           64.0>
_V a.                                                                                                                                                                          : .o 
rf "                                                                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D m
0q_        23.3      so            WAD.                                                                                                                                       X
oe"w       23.6     3.00           64
0 _
-n Afrits - SmtUw bnslmint,u~ A Shistw,ncm Lame



- 101. -
Annex 3-11
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Survey of Occupants on Housing Plots - Outline Terms of Reference
A.   Objectives
1.        A survey of occupants of existing dwellings on sites and
services plots in Bissau and about six secondary centers, is to be carried
out by MES (Ministry of Social Infrastructure) tot
(a) provide a socioeconomic evaluation of the impact of the Project
on present residents of the plots where MES inteads to undertake
the sites and services component of the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project; and
(b) identify and design a resettlement plan, if neces.sary, for the
present residents of the plots.
B.   Scope cf Work
2.        The survey shall be carried out through the technical Office
(TO) in MES, which shall select and employ qualified local staff and
consultants' services necessary to carry out the survey.
3.        In carrying out the survey, MES shall obtain, inter alia, the
following information relevant to the occupants of the sites to be
developed:
(a) number of occupants presently living in the sites to be
developed under the Project;
(b)  demugraphic profile of the occupants: age, sex, marital status;
(c) list of where occupants are employed and their Income levels;
(d) determination of whether occupants own or rent their houses;
(e) who has traditional rights to the land; or, whether the present
occupants pay a land rent;
(f) how occupants meet their service needs (water, fuel, transport);
(g) whether occupants want proposed improvements, and if they are
willing and able to pay for such improvements;
(h)  determination of whether occupants should be permitted to
continue occupyinr their present homes, while paying for the
improved services; and



- 102 -                        Annex 3-11
Page 2 of 2
(i) whether any of the families, given the choice of paying for land
and services or leaving, will choose to leave.
C.   Resettlement Plan
4.        The resettlement plan should be designed in accordance with the
World Bank's resettlement policy and guidelines and include, inter alia,
the following ass stance to the persons to be relocated:
(a) designation of another public area of comparable size for
settlement;
(b) assistance in dismantling their homes and transporting the
building materials to the new site or full compensation for the
value of their immovable assets;
(c) a relocation grant to cover the costs of moving;
(d) counseling and cooperation with community groups to minimize the
economic, social and psychological disruption associated with
the move; and, additionally;
(e) special attention should be given to the location of the new
site with respect to residents' current jobs or occupations,
available water supply and sanitation and commercial and social
rervices.
5..       If families choose to leave, an action plan to resettle them
should be derigned to provide them with the necessary assistance so they do
not experience a net loss as a result of the Project.
AFTIN
November 1989



- 103 -
Annex 5-1
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evali.'tion of the Road Infrastructure Program
A.   Background
1.        Most of the items included in the economic evaluation were
analyzed using the HDM (Highway Design and Maintenance Standards) Model.
LOTUS 1-2-3 was used to determine the rates of return for the various
groups of roads. The main benefit to be derived from the road
infrastructure program will be the increased efficiency of the
transportation system, which will in turn increase the country's level of
economic activity. The project will contribute to the solution of a number
of transportation problems; in particular, its main benefits will be:
(a) reduced freight and passenger trs sportation costs;
(b)  more efficient transportation of   nds to consumption centers,
and for export;
(c)  increased mobility for the popula son as a whole, and for
medical and social services;
(d)  improved road safety for vehicles and pedestrians.
2.        Not all of the above benefits were taken into account in the
analyses, since the more subjective of these were excluded.  Essentially,
rates of return were based on reductions in vehicle operating costs and
traveling times. No account was taken of social benefits resulting from
the works, or of 1:he benefits resulting from improved road safety.  In
particular, the p:esent condition of Avenida Pansau VPT ra makes it the
scene of frequent accidents.  The creation of jobs for -A,e communities in
all the areas involved is another important social ben .t.
B.   Ir-iut Data and Parameters for HDM
3.        Although input data for HDM vary from one road to another, the
fci.lowing are the ranges for each of the parameters considered:
(a)  Paved Roads
(i) Roughness of existing roads:
International Roughness Index (IRI) From 7.0 to 10.5 m/km
(ii) Roughness after rehabilitation:
IRI                                   ?rom 3.2 to 4.0 m/km
(iii) Type of maintenance planned:
Patching                              130Z
Resealing                             Seven-year intervals
Routine maintenance



- 104 -
Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 3
(b) Laterite and Earth Roads
(i) Roughness of existing roads:
IRI                                  From  11.7 to 14.1 m/km
(ii) Roughness after rehabilitation:
IRI                                  From 3.0 to 5.3 m/km
(iii) Type of maintenance planned:
Regraveling                          1002
Grading                              Average:  2 per year
Routine maintenance
C.   Rates of Return Analysis
4.        In general, the rates of return obtained are somewhat high, but
this is a reflection of the poor condition of most roads. Rates for each
component are shown in Attachments 1 through 5, and for the overall Road
Infrastructure Program in Attachment 6.
Paved Road Rehabilitation
5.        The HDM Program was run for each road in order to study the
condition changes over the design life and the economic or financial.
aspects of the measures to be adopted.  Attachment 1 summarizes-the results
for the seven paved roads included in the project; estimated ERR is 82
percent with individual roads EER ranging from 14 to 127 percent.
Unpaved Roads
6.        The same method was used for this project component as for paved
roads. Attachment 2 summarizes the results obtained using the HDM Program.
The estimated overall ERR for this group of roads is 30 percent, which is
lower than for the paved roads because traffic is much lighter, with
individual roads EER ranging from 18 to 41 percent.
Urban Streets
7.        Activities will consist of the rehabilitation of about 3 km
urban streets in Bissau (Avenida Pansau N'Isna and Avenida Nacoes Unidas)
and of about 5 km in other priority cities (Bafata, Gabu, Bissora and
Canchungo). As Attachment 3 shows, estimated ERRs are 22 percent for
Bissau streets and 15 percent for streets in other cities. The overall
estimated ERR is 20 percent. These works, in particular, would provide
important, though -nquantified, social and safety benefits referred to
above.
Rural Roads
8.        The HDM Model was applied to the pilrt rural road program as a
whole, assuming overall average traffic to be 20 vpd. As Attachment 4
shows, the overall estimated ERR for rural road improvements is about 39
percent.



- 105 -                      Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 3
Road Maintenance
9.        ERRs for the road maintenance program were estimated for all
categories of roads to receive routine and periodic maintenance. As
Attachment 5 shows, the estimated ERR was 32 percent.
Sensitivity Analyses
Sensitivity tests were conducted, assuming traffic levels and
benefits 1OZ lower, and costs 1O higher, than originally calculated. The
rates of return would thereby be reduced by about 4-8 percent. In light of
the rates originally calculated, this would no! b)e very significant.
D.   Risks
10.       No major risks were identified with respect to implementation of
the road infrastructure program. The main risks are associated with the
possibility that disbursements from donors may be suspended because of the
Government's payment arrears. This occurred on several occasions during
the implementation of the Second Roads Project. Another factor presenting
certain risks for the program is that the increased revenues to be
allocated for the Road Fund may not eventuate, thus limiting its rple of
financing road maintenance activities.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF PAVED ROADS
(USJ million)
at                N2                N1J                R9                 R7               L36                 R3
BISS.-JUGUDUL    RIO MANSOA-SAFIM  JUCUDUL-BAMBADIN  BAMBADINCA-XIME   CATIO-RIO CUMBIJE JEMBEREM-CADICUE   MANSOA-BISSORA            TOTALS
CAPITAL           CAPITAL            CAPITAL           CAPITAL            CAPITAL           CAPITAL            CAPITAL           CAPITAL              NET
YEAR   COSTS BENEFITS   COSTS BENEFITS   COSTS  BENEFITS   COSTS BENEFITS   COSTS  BENEFTTS   COSTS  BENEFITS   COSTS  BENEFITS   COSTS BENEFITS  BENEFIT
_ -    ---- - _----- - - - --  ----- - -- - - - --  _-- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -----  ------   ------     -- ----  -- -- ---  -- ----  -- ----    -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -----  -- -- --
1990  (80.496)                                                                                                                          (30.496)          (80.496)
1991  (81.166)          (30.160)                                                                                     (80.076)           (81.390)          (81.890)
1992   80.000   81.888   80.000   $0.189  (30.620)                                                                   (30.675)           (81.295)  82.072   80.777
199S   80.000   S2.146   30.000   80.205  (80.620)            (80.220)          (80.180)                              80.000   80.340  (81.020)  S2.690   81.670
1994   80.000   82.408   80.000   $0.226   80.000   80.488   80.000   80.033  (80.270)             (80.220)           80.000   80.379  2O0.490)  83.634   83.044
1996   80.000   82.690   80.000   $0.251   80.000   8J.664   80.000   80.034   80.000   80.086   80.000   80.041   80.000   80.428   SO.C,10  83.974   83.974
1990   30.000   82.740   80.000   80.277   80.000   80.640   80.000   80.039   30.000   80.074   80.000   80.043   80.000   80.469   80.00o.  84.280   84.280
1997   80.000   82.890   80.000   80.297   80.000   80.786   80.000   80.044   30.000   80.084   80.000   80.047   80.000   80.487   a0.000   84.686   84.565
1996  (80.822)  88.047  (80.140)  30.809   80.000   80.832   30.000   10.049   30.000   80.094   80.000   80.060   80.000   80.616  (80.962)  84.097   88.986
1999   80.000   83.211   80.000   80.321   80.000   80.934   80.000   30.064   80.000   80.106   30.000   30.065  (80.438)  30.646  (80.486)  16.228   84.790
2000   80.000   88.886   8O.vOO   80.884  (81.802)  81.048  (80.166)  80.060   80.000   80.116   30.000   80.056   80.000   80.680  (81.467)  86.679   S4.112
2001   80.000   88.66    80.000   80.847   80.000   81.172   80.000   80.067  (80.270)  80.128  (80.166)  80.060   WO.O00    80.616  (80.486)  86.966   86.620
2002   80.000   88.768   30.000   80.860   WO.OD   11.310   $0.000   80.074   80.000   80.142   30.000   80.068   80.000   80.661   30.000   86.366   86.866
2003                                        80.000   81.462   80.000   80.082   80.000   30.167   30.000   80.067                        30.000   81.788   81.768
2004                                                          80.000   80.090   80.000   30.178   30.000   80.071                        30.000   80.a34   80.884
2006                                                          10.100   80.099   80.000   30.190   30.000   80.076                        80.000   80.864   80.364
ERR          90.9 1            126.9 3            40.6 X             14.6 3            18.7 3             14.1 S            49.4 S                           81.61
rt?
n x
f v.



REPIULIC OF GUINEA-8ISSAU
INFRASTRUCT1RE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD INFRASTUCTARE PROGRAM
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF REHABILITATION OF UWAVED ROADS
(US9 million)
L 24            NIB               R4               N2                R7               RB
NI - GALOMARO  R.CAIUM-BURUNTUMA CONTBOEL-CAMBAJU   MAI9'TA-OUILEOE   BUBA - CATIO  NOVA SINTRA-S.JOAO    TOTALS
-_____________   ---------------- ________           ___    _           _                             ----------------
CAPITAL          CAPITAL          CAPITAL          CAPITAL          CAPITAL          CAPITAL          CAPITAL            NET
YEAR    COSTS BENEFITS  COSTS BENEFITS  COSTS BENEFITS  COSTS BENEFITS  COSTS BENEFITS  COSTS BENEFITS  COSTS BENEFITS BENEFIT
1990   (30.210)                                                                                               (W.210)          (30.210)
1091    (U.210)         (36.268)         (U.240)          (U.226)                                             (U.931)          (U.931)
1992    80.016  (6. 18) (W.384)          (W.-6S)          (30.226)                                            (81.169) (0. 138) (81.80)
1993     WO.N6  36.266  36.66  U0.219  89.06  80.220   WS.W6  30.969  (80.416)                                (11.416)  W6.774  $0.368
1994    U6.00 eo   .316  3.66    3.284   U,e66    U9.223  u.eee   3.084  (30.104)            (U6.19S)         (te.299)  36.866   U.667
1996    8OC.O  3.396   O.OJ0  U.230   W.066  80.260  3-6.6   30.677  3.66 Ue           .162   u.ae    *.a25  u.aea   81.679   1.0979
1996    W:oee    .416  8.66  U6.246  89.00e  U.269    .o6   U0.1U4  80.00   U9.169   U.o 0 6.0227  u.oe   81.211   81.211                      -
1997    o6.oee  8.438  89.6   89.268  U9,6 6    .264  UM.ee   80.107  80.eeo  *.146   6.66   $.#26  U6.oe    81.248   n1.243
19"     89ee e 0.481  u.oo    80.281  U.aee   8.276  80U.o    80-118 0  80.  U.196  U.6ee  $8.e26  u$.#W   31.360   1.36
199      0.ee e 0.4u6  (9e.24e) S.8-6  8        9a6 3U.280  80u.66   U-119  80.666   3.206  W-.No    6.68  (36.240) 81.486 U    1.196
20eo     W.me   U9.6u   8.0e   U.320  U.eee   W. 361  86.66   8.125  *e.eeo   *9.299  U6.oeo   U.04             .oe   81.606   1.5606
2661    80.6W o    .666  U.0ee    3.42   a eee  36.316  U.oee  36.132  U.e    U6.220   W.oe    0.642   u.W    81.687  U1.567
26o2    U-ee e    .6.4  U.oee  80.a86   u,6 ae u-a0   W.oo   8.189  U-.M e   *.282   O.6e    U.644   U.oeo   81.674  81.674
2096                                       o.e   U0.u44   6.9f6  80.147   u.666   8.244  u.oee    6.6047  u.aoe   U.762    W.762
2064                                       9.666  u369   u0.00   36.154  80.         36.267   M0.M   U8.656   91.e   36.629  36.6
2966                                                                        36.66   U.216  u.o    U9.f6s J 6. Ue         .323  U0.328
ERR            40.73 X9.6s1                     27.6             17.9 3           28.6 3           17.60                         86. x
:t :
*t >
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tD.
n3 x
S b



- 108 -                                Annex 5-1
Attachment 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF REHABILITATION OF URBAN STREETS
(USS million)
URBAN STREETS          URBAN STREETS
BISSAU              OTHER TOWNS                     TOTAL
CAPITAL                 CAPITAL                CAPITAL                   NET
YEAR     COSTS      8EN-FITS     COSTS      BENEFITS     COSTS     BENEFITS   BENEFIT
1991       (88.226)                (39.076)                (W9.896) (39.39)
1992       (39.300)                (30.159)                (30.450)                (80.469)
1998       (80.226)                3o.99"      3.031       (3.225)     39.981      (19.194)
1994        39.99m      39.173      9o.9"      ae.ou4      n9.ee       39.207      3.297
1996        3O.99       3.196      ae.eee       9.039      se.ee       3.234   . .284
1996        30.999      39.212      Wo.999      39.643     *o.oee      S9.255   *9.265
1997        3o.oeo      10.224     s3.996      10.647 '      o.699     19.271      30.271
1993       36.909        0.235      3o.99"     90.065       *e.ooo     3.286       30.285
196         3.169       30.246     (39.649)    30.062      (10.049)    39.809      30.261
2960       (10.049)     30.211      39.16"     83.056      (30.049)    30.267      39.213
2901        so.99"      30.274      39.999     39.059      39.999      39.388      30.338
2002        ao.ooo      30.280      *0.000      30.062     3o.996      ao.359      30.856
2003        ao.9oo      U.302      ao.ooo      39.969      ao.ooo      39.386      39.368
2004        ao.ooo      8.318       3O.999     19.970      ao.oo6      ao.s8s     3n.38
29905       39.99       30.334      30.000     80.074      39.999      80.408      80.408
21.8 X                16.1 3                                    20.9



- 109 -                               Annex 5-1
Attachment 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF REHABILITATION OF FEEDER ROADS
(USt million)
CAPITAL     RECURRENCY       SAVINGS      EXOGENOUS         NET
YEAR          COSTS          COSTS       IN VOC+TIME    BENEFITS        BENEFIT
1991            (83.390)                                                   (80.390)
1992            (80.520)                                                   (80.620)
1998            (10.390)                                                   (16.390)
1994             19.500        (89.182)        30.349        10.40f         10.664
19s               Wo.50        (8t.182)        39.069        10.440         u9.627
19906           Su.e           (1U.182)        19.361        $0.404          9.66s
1997              9.9e0        (10.102)       U9.429         U.532           9.779
199              19.909        (30.182)        30.44"7       1.604          U9.849
1999             6O.50         (10.182)        10.478        30.644         10.936
2009              ome09        (U0.182)         0.5602       89.760         61.923
2001             80.909        (10.102)        80.58          W. 766        *1.131
2092             S.m0          (10.182)        10.59         19.s66         11.243
2098              W.m09        (80.102)        10.603        6.944          31.365
2004             39.090        (10.132)        10.640        81.936         11.494
2095             1.00          (60.182)        66.681        11.140         31.639
ERR          88.7 S
NOTE: It was assumed an average traffic of 20 vpd for all fe-der roads



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-6ISSAU
WNFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD MADNTENANCE OPERATIONS
ECONOMIC RATE OF RTURN OF ROAD MAINTENANCE
(UI1 million)
PAVD ROADS                                         UWAVED ROADS
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                PERIODIC MADNTENANCE               ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                  TOTALS
CAPITAL                  NET       CAPITAL                  NET       CAPITAL                  NET       CAPITAL      NET
YEUR      COSTS      8ENEFITS   BENEFIT       COSTS     BENEFITS   BENEFIT      COSTS      BENEFITS   BENEFIT       COSTS     BENEFIT
1906        (89.4M)                (89.4W)    (M.519)                 (81.510)    (3.660)                (80.656)    (81.660)   (81.56U)
1991        *8.0100     8.28       8U.286      88.000      S.on2       ".n72       ".001      86.206      89.201     810.111     W.C6
1992        89.66       8.276       80.276     JO._"       89.107      89.167      5.00W      "3.1M6 #     .196       U.0W       80.9.79
1990        81.61 8.296             *e.29a     81.6e       8.116       U9.116     89.9         11.216    8U.216      u9.n 0      * .or
1994        U.OM                                1.262  *0.282  8.6  $8.14S  U.143  *1.0W      89.282      U0.232    SU.sO        U.6U7
1996 K9.U0J              0.224      88.224     89.101      89.164    8U.184       JO._6       J .169      W.198      JO.        81*.U56
1996        8111.1 8_.176           89.176      9.800      8U.160      so.16S    8u.0oe       U.112      U.112       U9.0S       U9.48U
1997        U.01 81.096             89.6       811.61_     *9.182      U1.132     ".01        89.976      ..070      * .0        "9.Mo
19o6                                           89.0W0    110.69        $9.09                                                     891.090
1999                                           l081.0W     88.076      89.075                                                    89.676
ERR                             62.5 S                             17.1                              29.5 3                  81.6 S
NOTE 1: Based on am year'e program;second year progtp  willI be similar
OTE 2: It weao* arned an average traffie of 226 vpd for paved roa.e and 65 vpd for unpaved roadb
n x
U'O



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD PROGRAM
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF CLOBAL ROAD PROGRAM
(US&. million)
GLOBAL
PAVED ROADS         tNAVED ROADS          URBAN STREETS          FEEDER ROADS        ROAD MAINTENANCE        ROAD PROWfAM
CAPITAL     NET      CAPITAL      NET      CAPITAL      NET      CAPITAL      NET      CAPITAL      NET      CAPITAL     NET
YEAR      COSTS    BENEFIT    COSTS      BENEFIT    COSTS      BENEFIT.    COSTS     BENEFIT     COSTS     BENEFIT     COSTS     BENEFIT
1990      (80.496)   (80.496)   (t0.210)   (80.210)                                               (81.660)   (81.660)   (82.266)   (12.266)
1991       (11.890)   (11.890)   (80.981)   (10.931)   (10.300)   (10.300)   (80.390)   (10.390)   (11.650)   (10.982)   (4.561)   (83.993)
1992       (31.295)    10.777    (11.169)    11.807    (10.460)   (10.460)   (10.520)   (10.620)   ($1.650)   (S0.403)   (14.964)    81.287
1998      (11.020)    11.670    (10.416)    80.858    (10.226)   (80.194)   (10.890)   (80.890)   (11.660)    10.227    (18.601)    11.671
1994       (10.490)    18.044    (30.299)    80.657    10.000     10.207     10.000     10.664    (81.560)'   10.884    (82.389)    86.268
1996       80.000    18.974      S0.000      11.079    10.000     10.284     10.000     30.627     10.000     83.020    10.000     36.934
1996       10.000     14.280     30.000     81.211     80.000     30.265     30.000     1o.68     1O.000      32.69     80.000     89.269
1997       10.000      4.658     10.000     81.248     10.000     10.271     10.000     10.779     10.000     82.617    So.ooo     89.496
1996       10.962     18.985     10.000     11.860     10.000     10.286     30.000     10.849     10.000     12.065    10.962     32.604
1999       10.48      14.790     30.240     31.190    (10.049)    30.261     30.000     30.936     30.000     81.608    10.629     to.669
2000      (81.467)    84.112     30.000     81.506    (10.049)    30.210     30.000     31.028     30.000     10.917    (11.616)    17.790
2001       (30.486)    86.520    3O.mD0    81.587      10.000     30.888     30.000     81.181     30.000     30.479    (30.486)    89.060
2002        30.000    8.6.6      80.000     01.674     10.000     30.360     10.000     11.243     10.000     10.178    0.000     89.796
2008        10.000    11.768     30.000     30.782     30.000     30.86      30.000     31.866     10.000     10.076    so.ooo     84.368
2004       10.000     10."4      WO.O0      30.820     30.000     3O.8       30.000     81.494     10.000     10.000    30.000 o.033
2005       10.000     30.864     10.000     10.823     30.000     10.488     so. m      11.639     30.000     10.000     10.000    12.014
ERR                 81.6 x              30.0 X                20.0 X   *8.7 N                             J1.8 x                58.91s



- 112 -                      Annex 5-2
Page 1 of 1
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILIATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of the Overall Investment Package
(US$ million)
YR     ROADS    RODO-    SILO       JAPG    TOTAL
PROGRAM  FLUVIAL   DIATA             CASH FLOW
1990   -2.255   -1.179   -0.745   -1.512   -5.691
1991   -3.993    0.130    0.349    0.563   -2.951
1992    1.287   -0.503   -0.152    0.636    1.268
1993    1.671    0.717    0.398    0.728    3.514
1994    5.256    2.511    0.462    0.821    9.050
1995    3.934                        0.825    9.759
1996    9.269                        0.825   10.094
1997    9.495                        0.825   10.320
1998    8.504                        0.825    9.329
1999    8.669                        0.825    9.494
2000    7.780                        0.825    8.605
2001    9.050                                  9.050
2002    9.796                                  9.796
2003    4.358                                  4.358
2004    3.036                                  3.036
2.005    2.814                                 2.814
EER     53.912   24.962   13.22t   44.222   47.902
OVERALL ERR       47.902
NPV t122          33.47



- 113 -                         Annex 6-1
Pag,e 1 of 2
GUINEA BISSAU
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
Ref. No.                             Documnt
1.     Estudo de Viabilidade da Empresa SILO-DIATA (Vol I & II), by
CESO CRL.
2.     Organiza9Io dos Serviqos de Pessoal, by CESO CRL.
3.     Manual de Procedimentos Contabilisticos e Financeiros, by CESO
CRL.
4.     Etude du Financement de l'Entretien Routier et de la Fiscalit4
des Transports, by Groupement CADIC-PRC Engineering.
5.     Estrategia para a Formula9ao duma Politica de Transportes, by
MES/SET.
6.     Republic of Guinea Bisbau-Transport Sector Memorandum (Report
IBRD No. 7076-GUB) by AFTIN.
7.     Etude de la R4organisation des Transports A4riens de Guine-
Bissau (TAGB), by Louis Berger International, Inc.
8.     SILO DIATA: Projecto de Reorganizag8o de Transportes Urbanos e
Inter-Urbanos 'Redimensionamentom.
9.     Guinea-Bissau: Transport Demand and Bottlenecks, by Svein
Joregensen.
10.    FormaqAo e Desenvolvimento da MAo-de-Obra nos Sectores de
Infraestruturas e de Transportes, by CESO CRL.
11.    Orgamento Geral do Estado 1989, by Ministerio das Finangas,
Guini-Bissau.                                                                    ;
12.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to PCU, TCU, TO,
DGHU and Bissau Municipality.
13.    Manpower Development and Training Program.
14.    RODOFLUVIAL:
-    Investment Plan, Financial Analysis (1986-93)
-    Income Statement
-    Economic Evaluation



- 114 -
Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 2
15.    SILO DIATA:
-    Investment Plan (1989-1993)
-    Balance Sheets (1986-1993
-    Financial Statement
16.    JAPG:
-    Traffic Growth ard Projections, Investment Plan (1989-93)
-    Balance Sheet, Income Statements (1e87-93)
-    Economic Evaluation
17.    TAGBs
-    Estimated Operating Result.s '1988-89)
-    Estimated Balance Sheet, end 1988



SENEGAL
oh~~~~~~~~~~~~~,t.l,              A
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V.34150 ~   ~        ~         CHE
LA~~~~~~~~~~4VEb1 1. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     b
PUR.OtUS-l I.  (i-i LilA'S IRS ~~~~~~~~~                                                            ~~UIN
MAURITANIA       U~JEAO
A  (IA 056 fZAH
lEA-  A R C H I P F I A 0 0 ~                ~       ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~UIEABISA
A)      GGUINEANFRASiT RUC UR REHABILITATiaIONpia
8  I RRA                                                                                                       70o1ro4/s
C=ll                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECTIVIE         -    ltetaisa Radae
=K-,~~~LREL
8119A01F   R,)X4~~ILE
Ro.6 RchabilwtaW U.d.,     F-d., Ro         SEPTEM



