Document of
The World Bank
FOR OM1CIAL USE ONLY
Rept No. 11729
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2234-TUN)
MARCH 17, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION
(LOAN 2234-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  =    Tunisian Dinar (TD)
Appraisal Year Average         =    US$1.00 = 0.68 TD
Implementation Average               US$1.00 = 0.81 TD
Completion Year Average        =    US$1.00 = 0.80 TD
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
BNA         National Bank of Tunisia
BNT         National Bank of Tunisia (formerly)
CRDA        Regional Development Agency
DGPC        Highway Department
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP    FAO-World Bank Cooperative Programme
FOSDA       Agricultural Development Fund
ODTC        Central Tunisia Development Agency
OMIVAK    Kairouan Development Agency
PCR         Project Completion Report
PPI         Deep Tubewell Command Area
PS          Shallow Dug Well
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
USAID       United States Development Agency
WUA         Water Users Associations
GOVERNMENTAL FISCAL YEAR
January Ist - December 31st



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Central Tunisia Irrigation Proiect (Loan 2234-TUN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Tunisia -
Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Loan 2234-TUN)" prepared by the FAO/CP with Part II
provided by the Borrower. It provides a fair record of constraints and achievements.
This project upgraded and expanded public and private well irrigation in arid
Kairouan and Kasserine Governorates.  It also strengthened support services including
extension, credit, and livestock, marketing and mechanization services.
Overall results were satisfactory. Implementation was timely and realized unit
cost savings. Physical targets for structures and benefits were exceeded. On the other hand,
users' groups proved hard to organize and cost recovery targets were not achieved.
Sustainability is likely but will require an effective monitoring and evaluation effort to assess
the impact of pumping on the aquifer and to maintain the momentum towards increased
reliance on farmers' groups and private sector services.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION
(LOAN 2234-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................ ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .................
1. Project Identity   .................................................                                                   I
2. Background   ...................................................                                                       1
3. Project Objectives and Description  .....................................                                              2
4. Project Design and Organization   ......................................                                               3
5. Project Implementation   ............................................                                                  4
6. Project Results   .................................................                                                    5
7.  Project Sustainability ...............................................   9
8. Bank Performance   ...............................................    10
9. Borrower Performance   ............................................    10
10. Project Documentation and Data  ......................................    11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Analysis (Kairouan component)   ...............................    12
Project Design and Organization (Kasserine component)  .....................   13
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans   ..............................................    19
2. Project Timetable  ................................................    20
3. Loan Disbursements ...............................................    21
4. Project Implementation  .............................................    22
5. Project Costs and Financing  ..........................................    23
6. Project Results  ..................................................    24
7. Compliance with Loan Covenants  ......................................   26
8. Use of Bank Resources .............................................    28
9. Economic Analysis  ...............................................    30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION
(LOAN 2234-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Central Tunisia Irrigation Project for which
Loan 2234-TUN for US$16.5 million was approved on January 25, 1983. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1990, 6 months behind schedule. A sum of US$2.8 million was cancelled on October 9,
1987 and US$3.4 million at the end of the project.
2.     The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared based on a report by
FAO/CP and Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
3.     An FAO/CP completion mission visited Tunisia between September 16 and 27 1991. Its report
is based on findings of the mission, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, two Project
Agreements, supervision reports and a project completion report (in two parts) prepared by the Ministry
of Agriculture.






- jj -
TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION
(LOAN 2234-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The primary objectives of the project were to: (a) increase agricultural production in Central
Tunisia; (b) increase farm incomes; (c) create employment; and (d) implement a coherent and
sustained water resources policy through the development of water users' associations capable of
managing public irrigation schemes and through the support of private initiative to develop and use
groundwater resources efficiently.
Implementation Experience
2.    In spite of a slow start-up due to initial lack of experience of project managers and low levels
of counterpart funding, the project was successful in meeting its physical targets. Except for some
minor adjustments, all project activities were implemented according to appraisal estimates. Loan
savings resulting from the devaluation of the dinar against the dollar were used to implement an
additional program within the timeframe and objectives of the project. The loan closed six months
late, on December 31, 1990, because of construction delays caused by a dispute with a contractor.
Results
3.    As a result of project activities, agricultural production at full development (1991) increased
from  pre-project levels to exceed SAR targets.  The incremental production resulted from
intensification of cropping and modification in cropping patterns due to increased water availability
and improved cultural practices. Mainly due to the effects of the drought which lasted from 1986
to 1989, yield increases were generally lower than foreseen in the SAR. However, it is expected
that over time, as a result of continued improvements in extension support and the return to more
normal climatic conditions, yields would increase further. Demand for fruits and vegetables has been
strong and the significant increases generated under the project were readily absorbed by the
domestic and export markets. The decreased risk of farming due to more reliable water supplies and
gains in income provided sufficient incentives to the farmers to participate in the project. The
economic analysis shows that farmers had the necessary financial incentives to produce summer
vegetables and fruits, in particular, but benefits from winter vegetables and forage crops were lower.
The analysis results in an ERR of 15.1 % which is slightly lower than the 16% estimated at appraisal
mainly due to lower yields caused by the long periods of drought.



- iii -
Sustainability
4.     The rehabilitated deep tubewell command areas (PPIs) and the newly constructed PPIs are
expected to be sustainable both in terms of water resources and ability by the Borrower to maintain
the infrastructure. Long-term sustainability of the shallow wells (PS) component depends upon future
exploitation of the aquifers which will need to be monitored closely to ensure that water is being used
effectively.  The agricultural support components of the project, such as marketing services,
extension, research, and the strengthening of the offices have benefitted all farmers of the irrigated
subsector in the project zone. The roads component has provided improved farm access to about
half the farm families in the area. These services provide additional incentives to farmers and will
help sustain the region's agricultural production.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.     Participation of farmers in irrigation projects can be expected. However, the organized
participation of farmers in exploiting and distributing irrigation water generally takes a long time and
it appears that the Bank was overly optimistic in estimating that farmers would be ready to take over
the management of the irrigation schemes after the rehabilitation works undertaken under the project.
In Tunisia, the process is in full development and being fine tuned following five years of experience
after the publication of the basic legislation on the water users' associations. In the most advanced
associations, water management, control of water losses, use of water saving methods, and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure is in general satisfactory, which proves that
encouraging the participation of WUAS is still the best approach to be pursued in Government
sponsored irrigation development.
6.     Similarly, the process initiated with the project to release Government agencies from
commercially oriented activities is in expansion and consolidation which has also proved that the
private sector is there to compete when fair conditions exist. In certain instances, private initiatives
have been booming in fields not anticipated but resulting from the presence of the project. In future
lending, such prospects should be explored further.
7.    In spite of its importance, proper project monitoring and evaluation has not yet found a
satisfactory solution. Lack of commitment by the borrower is probably the main reason why, even
with short-term technical assistance support to the Offices, final results are inadequate. A continuous
and evolving technical assistance, lasting throughout the project implementation period, might be the
solution.



TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION
(LOAN 2234-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identitv
Project Name               Central Tunisia Irrigation Project
Loan No.                   2234-TUN
RVP Unit                   MNA
Country             :      Tunisia
Sector              :      Agriculture
Sub-sector                 Irrigation
2. Background
2.1    The Project was the thirteenth Bank-group assisted agricultural project in Tunisia. Its objective
was to increase agricultural production to meet the needs of the rapidly growing population, provide
higher farm incomes and create employment in one of the least developed areas in Tunisia. The Project
was identified in 1980 by a World Bank mission and was prepared by the Government of Tunisia with
assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) in May 1982. The Project was
appraised by the Bank and approved by the Board on January 25, 1983. The Loan and Project
Agreements were signed on February 28, 1983 and became effective on November 2, 1983. The Loan
closed on December 31, 1990, after one extension.
2.2    At appraisal, the Project was to be implemented over 5 years at a cost of US$43.8 million, of
which the Bank would provide US$16.5 million, the Government US$19.7 million, the National Bank
of Tunisia (BNT) US$4.8 million and the beneficiaries US$2.8 million.
Policy and Sector Context
2.3    A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was to achieve self-sufficiency in food. This goal
was not achieved since Tunisia's higher per capita income growth and the shift of tastes to higher value
crops created a growth of demand in food, diverting exports to local consumption and increasing imports.
2.4    The overall objective for agriculture of the Sixth Plan (1982-86) continued to be progress towards
self-sufficiency in food. Food imports (especially cereals) would be compensated by increasing exports,
particularly in the labor intensive subsectors, such as livestock and fruit tree plantations. Certain basic



-2 -
issues had to be addressed urgently, i.e., the need to increase rural employment (which was providing
35 percent of total employment in the early 1980s, at the time of appraisal of the project, against 50
percent in 1972) and agricultural revenues and improve efficiency of investments due to the necessity to
adjust the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation of lower investments.
2.5   Irrigation has contributed significantly to rapid growth of Tunisian agriculture. At the time of
project identification in 1980, it accounted for about 25 percent of the country's total agricultural GDP.
However, the subsector's contribution could have been higher if more intensive use had been made of
the irrigable areas. The Government's objectives during the Sixth Development Plan for this sub-sector
were: extension of irrigable areas and intensification of water utilization and crop production on existing
irrigable areas.
2.6    The project goals are fully consistent with the Tunisian development objectives of food self-
sufficiency, reduced regional income disparities and employment creation. In addition, the project would
increase the efficiency of investments by improving the mobilization and utilization of water resources
in the area.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The primary objectives of the Project were to increase agricultural production, farm incomes and
employment possibilities in Central Tunisia. In addition, the Project was to implement a coherent and
sustainable water resource policy through the development of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) capable
of managing public irrigation schemes and through the support of private initiative to develop and use
efficiently groundwater resources.
3.2    At appraisal, the Project consisted of the following main components:
Development of Infrastructure
-      Rehabilitation of 37 public irrigation schemes (PPIs), totalling 4,700 ha.
-      Creation of 5 new PPIs totalling 555 ha.
-      Support for improvement of 1,600 existing shallow private wells (PS) in the form of
additional credit for well lining, pumping equipment, pipes, small reservoirs, etc.
-      Rehabilitation of about 130 km of feeder roads.
Institutional Development
-      Strengthening of the Central Tunisia Development Agency (ODTC) and the Kairouan
Irrigation Development Agency (OMIVAK).
-      Strengthening of the offices' repair and maintenance units.
-      Cteation of a shallow well support unit in each office benefitting a total of 36,000 ha.
-      Strengthening of the extension services of the two offices, including the establishment of
an applied research and extension support center in Kairouan, 3 pilot mechanization units,
and the strengthening of 2 marketing support centers.



-3-
Support and Pilot Actions
-     Strengthening of animal production support services in the Project.
-     Testing a livestock development model for Central Tunisia, which integrates the
management of herds and feed resources of the rainfed and irrigated subsector.
-     Promotion of credit and input supplies.
-     Strengthening of services to monitor groundwater resources.
3.3    As discussed in Chapters 5 and 6 and shown in Part III, Table 4, the project implemented most
of the above components and in some cases the targets set out at appraisal were exceeded. For example,
5 additional PPIs were rehabilitated, 3 new ones were created, and a cold storage facility (not foreseen
at appraisal) was constructed and equipped. However, the creation of WUAs and the efficient use of
groundwater resources under PSs were not fully achieved.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    The general problem of low agricultural productivity, low farm incomes and limited employment
opportunities as well as the specific needs of irrigating farmers in Central Tunisia provided a clear
conceptual base for the project.
4.2    The project was well designed and its objectives were understood by all parties involved. The
most noteworthy features of the project were:
-     the emphasis given to providing reliable irrigation water supply to farmers under existing
PPIs through rehabilitation of the infrastructure;
-     creation of new PPIs and lines of credit for on-farm investments under PS;
-     farmer participation in management of PPIs;
-     need for continuous monitoring of groundwater exploitation to ensure long-term water
availability;
-      introduction of improved water management and cultural techniques to ensure optimum
production per unit of water used;
-     strengthening the organization of support services for PPIs and PS including the provision
of technical assistance and extension services.
4.3   In supporting the rehabilitation of 1600 private surface wells through provision of credit for well
lining, small reservoirs and pumping equipment, the project design had not sufficiently addressed the risk
of overexploitation of water resources. The farmers equipped the PS with over-powered pumps thus
overexploiting the aquifers. The unnecessarily high consumption of energy led to high costs of irrigation
water. The Project could have also considered electrification of surface wells and the introduction of
improved on-farm water distribution systems for tree crops.
4.4    Project works were executed by ODTC in Kasserine, by OMIVAK in Kairouan and for the roads
component by the Highway Department (DGPC) of the Ministry of Public Works. The ODTC also
benefitted during project implementation from a USAID financed project which assisted in strengthening
its planning and implementation capacity. OMIVAK was strengthened under the project as planned. In
general, the project implementation arrangements were well designed and proved satisfactory even though
additional planning and implementation support should have been provided to OMIVAK.



- 4 -
4.5    The Ministry of Agriculture in Tunisia was reorganized in 1989 as a result of which its activities
were decentralized and regionalized. The irrigation development agencies, including Kasserine and
Kairouan, were merged with regional agricultural development agencies (CRDA) creating new structures
at governorate level. This organizational change did not affect project implementation since the majority
of key staff remained in their positions.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    The Loan and Project Agreements were signed on February 28, 1983 and became effective about
eight months later, on November 2, 1983. This delay was due to cumbersome bureaucratic constraints
since there were no additional conditions of effectiveness aside from the standard ones. The project was
also affected in the beginning by the lack of experience of project managers with Bank procedures and
requirements and by the low level of counterpart funding which was not initially available for the
additional works included in the project and for maintenance.
5.2    The Loan closing date was set for June 30, 1990 and extended 6 months to complete works
delayed by a dispute with a contractor. An additional program of works financed from loan savings was
executed within the originally foreseen project period.
Variances in Project Implementation
5.3    Except for some minor changes made to the project to conform to actual needs (see para. 5.4
below), the project was successfully executed and this is reflected in the supervision reports which
generally rate implementation as problem free (1-rating) (ref. part III. Table 8B). However, with regard
to the institutional development component, the organization of farmers into WUAs proved to be more
cumbersome than anticipated and out of a planned 42 associations only 9 were created despite
considerable pressure from supervision missions. The legal framework and model statutes of these
associations were approved in October 1987 and January 1988, respectively. The ongoing Irrigation
Management Improvement Project (loan 2573-TUN) is following up on the issue of increasing the role
of WUAs in the operations and maintenance of irrigation schemes.
5.4    The Loan Agreement was amended in September 1987 to allow loan savings to be used for the
rehabilitation of an additional 5 PPIs, the creation of 3 new PPIs, including one using waste water from
the Kairouan sewage treatment plant, and the establishment of a cold storage facility at Kairouan; due to
lack of demand, only one milk collection center was built in Kairouan and the construction of a veterinary
station was dropped.
Proiect Costs
5.5    At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$43.8 million of which US$16.5 million
(85 % of the foreign exchange costs) would be financed by the Bank. At completion, project costs were
US$29.43 million or 67% of SAR estimates; Bank disbursements totalled US$10.5 million or 63% of
SAR estimates; the balance of US$6 million was cancelled in two stages, US$2.8 million in May 1986
and US$3.4 million at Loan closing, in December 1990.



-5 -
5.6    The loan savings realized under the project as a result of the devaluation of the dinar against the
dollar ($1 =0.67 TD at effectiveness in 1983 vs. implementation average of $1 =0.81 TD) were used to
implement the additional investments mentioned above and shown in Part III. Table 4. Due to the change
in exchange rate, the reduced Bank loan of US$10.5 million financed 35% of the total project cost
compared to 38% estimated at appraisal (Part III. Table 5B).
6. Project Results
6.1    The Project was very successful in achieving its main objectives. Agricultural production rose
through increased water supplies to farmers, creation of newly irrigated areas, and provision of credit
and agricultural services including extension. As a result, farm incomes and employment opportunities
increased considerably.
Rehabilitation of Existing PPIs
6.2    The Project rehabilitated 42 existing PPIs covering 5,410 ha compared to 37 PPIs over 4,700 ha
expected at appraisal. Rehabilitation works were carried out on the water extraction, conveyance and
distribution systems. Water conveyance losses decreased and water distribution through better furrow
irrigation systems improved (refer para. 6.11). More water was pumped than previously (the maximum
more than threefold) which together with a drought midway through the project reduced groundwater
levels somewhat - but not significantly -as monitored by 20 piezometers provided by the project. Using
reserve funding included in the project, seven reserve tubewells were constructed during the project
period, to replace aging existing wells.
Creation of New PPIs
6.3    The Project created 8 new PPIs covering 1,255 ha compared to 5 PPIs over 555 ha expected in
the SAR. Water was conveyed through underground piped distribution networks which delivered water
to a newly established furrow distribution system. It should be noted that all newly created PPIs were
rainfed previously and were mainly planted with fruit trees. Therefore, farmers immediately benefitted
from the irrigation provided.
Size of Pumping Equipment
6.4    The new electric motors or diesel engines used for the pumps of shallow wells were too high
powered, and there was thus excess consumption of energy, leading to higher than necessary pumping
costs.
Support for Improvement of Shallow Private Wells (PS)
6.5    The Project was to support improvements of 1,600 private wells (PS) in the form of additional
credit for well lining, deepening, cleaning, pumping equipment, pipes, small reservoirs. More credit was
provided than foreseen (ref. para. 6.18) which allowed for considerable expansion of this component.
In Kairouan alone, 1,556 pumps and equipment were purchased and 178 new wells constructed. The
corresponding data for Kasserine are missing, but total credit delivery for irrigation was about DT 2.44
million corresponding to about 620 pumps and equipment. Due to the heavy duty equipment purchased



-6 -
by farmers, there was a considerable increase in water pumping costs (ref. Part III. Table 9D). Despite
the deepening of the wells, many wells became dry during the project period or yielded less water than
expected. A persistent drought is mainly responsible for this, but it is clear that the erratic deepening
of wells and the overexploitation of the aquifer affected the operation of shallower wells. The excessive
pumping and the uncontrolled deepening program essentially allowed mining of the upper groundwater
reserves. Water now has to be pumped from a deeper level at additional cost. This development,
although foreseeable and not unique to Tunisian conditions, could have been partly avoided by equipping
the wells with smaller sized pumps and through tighter control of private well development. However,
there was tremendous pressure from farmers at the time of the drought to exploit the wells and the water
shortages which resulted temporarily put a stop to overexploitation.
6.6    Nevertheless, the water was made good use of during the project period, and particularly during
the drought years, as is apparent from the reported yield increases obtained with the PS.
Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads
6.7    The Project rehabilitated and improved 130 km of unpaved feeder roads as foreseen in the SAR.
In addition, about 12 km of these roads were resurfaced by means of external sources of financing.
Repair and Maintenance Services/Mechanization Units
6.8    Repair and maintenance services for irrigation schemes provided by the Offices were strengthened
as foreseen in the SAR except that the mobile equipment and related services to repair the pumps were
mainly provided by the evolving private sector. The equipment which was to be provided to the
mechanization units was also reduced because of the increasing role of the private sector providing
mechanized support services to farmers.
Shallow Wells SuDpOrt Units
6.9    Seven well support teams were established as foreseen in the SAR for rehabilitation of existing
shallow wells (cleaning, deepening, lining). Towards the end of the project, however, the deepening of
wells was carried out by farmers without the support units' assistance.
Water Users' Associations
6.10   The 9 WUAs established are functioning fairly well, although with limited participation of
farmers. Operation and maintenance of the wells, major repairs and the operation of primary and
secondary canal systems are still the responsibility of CRDA staff. The farmers' task consists of
operating and maintaining the unlined irrigation distribution system. Farmers have not assumed control
of the operation and management of the entire irrigation system and this has contributed to some instances
of farmers damaging the main and secondary canal networks in order to obtain more water.
Water Use Effciency
6.11   The efficiency of water conveyance systems (from the pump to farmgate) on rehabilitated PPIs
has improved on average from 62% to 74% which corresponds to a 20% increase of water availability.
Changes in on-farm water use efficiency were not monitored; however, it is clear that considerable water



-7 -
losses still occur with the prevailing furrow system, leading to a water use efficiency rate not much higher
than 50%. Water use efficiency in the context of new PPIs and existing PS was not monitored
consistently. Field observations indicate that new PPI schemes (having underground piped distribution
networks) may operate at around a 60% efficiency rate and some of the shallow wells at an even higher
rate.
Agricultural Production
6.12   As a result of project activities, agricultural production at full development (1991) reached higher
levels than projected in the SAR. This was mainly due to an increase in area cropped resulting from the
rehabilitation and creation of new PPIs. The increase in area cropped was also accompanied by a
moderate increase in yields (ref. part III. Table 6A). However, yields have generally not reached SAR
targets mainly due to the drought which lasted from 1986 to 1989. It can be expected that as a result of
improved and strengthened extension services and the return to more normal climatic conditions, yields
could be further increased. Demand for fruit and vegetables has been strong and the significant increase
in production generated under the Project was readily absorbed by the domestic and export markets.
6.13   The overall rates of growth in fruit production were higher for individual crops such as olives,
apples and pears. Increased production from existing and new olive plantations in the project area was
substantial (by an estimated 6,640 t in 1991). This was a result of the increase in area cultivated (778
ha) and yields (2.8 to 5 t/ha). There was also an increase in areas plarnted with apple and pear trees
(from 240 to 609 ha). However, even though water availability and marketing conditions improved,
there was very little improvement in use of inputs and yields did not increase compared to pre-Project
levels of 8 t/ha. There is a need to monitor the agro-economic variables of these tree crops in order to
provide the extension service with sufficient data for the formulation of appropriate corrective messages
for diffusion to the farmers.
6.14   The additional water available mainly benefitted the summer crops although there was also a large
increase in winter crops. The incremental production was 18,000 t for summer and 14,000 t for winter
vegetables. The main production increases were from hot peppers (3,000 t), mostly in Kairouan, and
tomatoes (5,000 t), mostly in Kasserine. Yield increases were close to SAR estimates but total production
increases (238% to over 46,000 t) were mainly as a result of an increase in area cultivated. The total
production of cereals increased by about 264% to 3,605 t with average yields of about 2.2 t/ha which is
very close to the SAR estimate of 2.3 t.
6.15   Production of fodder crops was low (1.3 million f.u. vs SAR projections of 3 million f.u.) given
the low profitability of livestock activities when compared to irrigated vegetables and tree crops.
6.16   In Kairouan, the small incremental production of 270 t of industrial crops (tobacco and cotton)
supplied the domestic processing industries, thus contributing, albeit in a small way, to substitution for
imports.
6.17   The rehabilitation of the PS also contributed to an increase in total production. Given the large
numbers of wells, it was difficult to quantify the incremental benefits due to rehabilitation. A more
thorough monitoring and evaluation system should have been set up to accurately estimate the impact of
the project on the PS. The PCR Mission estimates that total production increases were similar to those
reached by the PPIs.



-8 -
Credit
6.18   The investments required by farmers were mainly for the rehabilitation of the wells, the purchase
of tractors and motor pumps for the PS. Credit was provided by BNA (the former BNT), FOSDA, the
third Agricultural Credit Project (1885-TUN) and other bilateral sources. The volume of credit delivered
was higher than SAR estimates. An important issue remains the low levels of loan recovery.
Agricultural Support Services
6.19   The extension service was strengthened and reorganized during project implementation.
Extension agents were recruited and trained and as a result, the ratio of extension agents to farmers
improved. However, extension agents still need to visit farmers on a more regular basis. Good progress
was also made with the establishment of demonstration plots. The newly created National Agency for
Extension and Agricultural Development should provide henceforth adequate support to an efficient and
well organized extension service.
Marketing, Farm Machinery and Veterinary and Milk Collection Centers
6.20   The Project financed four mechanized farming units which included the purchase of appropriate
equipment needed to demonstrate the benefits of improved farm mechanization. Given the success of this
component, the private sector has become very active in the provision of these services.
6.21   The construction and equipping of five fruit and vegetable collection centers strengthened the
marketing infrastructure in the project area. As foreseen, private operators have now become active in
all aspects of fruit and vegetable storage and distribution.
6.22   Proposed livestock investments were affected by their low profitability when compared to
irrigated vegetables and crops due to the drought period from 1986-1989. Thus, the project financed the
construction and equipping of one veterinary center (instead of 3) and of one of two proposed milk
collection centers.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.23   Each office hired an agro-economist to lead its monitoring and evaluation unit and to analyze the
information collected by the technical services. In addition, fifteen man-months (SAR estimates 12) of
short-term consultancy were provided to assist them in monitoring progress and the impact of project
activities. Despite the attention given to monitoring and evaluation, there was insufficient information
concerning the cropping patterns, yields and water consumption of the irrigation schemes. Mainly due
to shortage of staff, the monitoring and evaluation system was not able to provide an analysis of the
evaluation data based on the monitoring information collected.  Although the Water Resources
Department set up a monitoring system of the deep aquifers, systematic monitoring of shallow
groundwater levels was not carried out. Furthermore, monitoring and evaluation as to type of irrigation
equipment used was absent and the use of over powered pumping equipment by the shallow well farmers
was not even noticed.



-9 -
Economic Analysis
6.24   Reliable project impact data were not readily available. Based on discussions with farmers and
project staff, The PCR mission was able to make reasonable estimates of production increases in the
rehabilitated and new PPIs. On that basis, an economic analysis was carried out on the rehabilitated and
new PPI components. Production benefits included in the analysis consisted of increased production of
fruits, vegetables and forage. They were projected on the basis of representative farm models described
in Table 9E. The project benefits were valued at economic prices described in Table 9C. The
incremental analysis includes the direct benefits obtained from the PPIs, and the costs of rehabilitating
and creating new PPIs. Overall project costs, such as extension, strengthening of the offices, etc. were
not included in the economic analysis.
6.25   Increased water availability and security and the gains in income provided sufficient incentives
to the farmers to participate in the Project. The analysis shows that farmers had the necessary financial
incentives to produce summer vegetables and fruits in particular, but that benefits from winter vegetables
were smaller and those of forage crops were low. The analysis results in an ERR of 15%' compared
to an estimated 16% at the time of appraisal. The lower than expected yields of crops planted on the
additional area under production was the main factor contributing to a slightly lower ERR. However,
this decrease was largely compensated by the additional area rehabilitated (at a much lower unit cost than
estimated in the SAR) as well as the additional acreage under new PPIs.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    Monitoring of the deep aquifer has shown that a significant change in water levels has not
occurred despite increased pumping compared to the pre-project situation. Therefore, it is expected that
benefits from deep tubewells would be maintained at an acceptable level throughout the economic life of
the project. Since no corresponding monitoring was made for shallow wells, the sustainability of
agricultural production based on irrigation water from surface wells is less certain, as experience has
already shown. Nevertheless, rainfall does replenish the surface wells but it is not known to what extent.
The risk of a total disappearance of water resources from shallow wells is, however, remote.
7.2    The creation of new WUAs and the maintenance of the existing ones will continue to be a
difficult task although as long as the CRDAs are responsible for water distribution and management,
water delivery to the PPIs will be assured. Good progress has been made recently with establishment
of associations for village water supply which are much easier to create and which will help pave the way
for the establishment of WUAs responsible for the O&M of irrigated areas. The Irrigation Management
Improvement Project (loan 2573-TUN) will help ensure the sustainability of agricultural development in
public irrigation schemes through maintenance and rehabilitation operations and through the training of
staff in irrigation O&M.
7.3    Given that the two CRDAs are well established, activities undertaken under the institutional
development/support services component are expected to be sustained. Nevertheless, improvements in
agricultural extension, monitoring and evaluation systems and credit repayment are still needed. Those
/ Basic assumptions, methodology and results are presented in Part III, Table 9. The results are
summarized in Part III, Table 6.



- 10 -
issues will continue to be addressed through the Bank's involvement in the on-going Research and
Extension Project and through future lending operations.
7.4    Prior to the take-over of irrigation O&M by the farmers, the two CRDAs need to improve their
financial management and accountability in order to allow mobilization of the required resources to
maintain the irrigation systems. Water tariffs, currently set at 0.034 and 0.027 D/m3 in Kairouan and
Kasserine respectively, do not yet reflect the economic cost of providing water. The Government needs
to increase water charges on a regular basis to provide for full O&M cost recovery. A system of
recovery measures is being monitored under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (loan 2573-
TUN) and ASAL II (loan 3078-TUN).
8. Bank Performance
8.1    As mentioned in chapter 4, Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory
except for the overly optimistic expectation that WUAs could manage public irrigation schemes
autonomously in a short period of time. Generally, Bank supervision missions identified implementation
problems and brought them to the attention of the Government and the Agencies. However, the
supervision missions did not identify and address the issue of the excess capacity of the pumping
equipment. Furthermore, even though problems of monitoring and evaluation were addressed during
supervision, the Offices appeared to need additional technical assistance to understand what the task
involved. The 12 months of technical assistance provided by the project did not produce the anticipated
results.
8.2    The major lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)   the establishment of WUAs is likely to require more time than the standard five year
period of project implementation;
(b)    supervision missions should address key technical issues (such as the size of pumping
equipment), even if this is only indirectly related to project financing;
(c)   the constant reminders by supervision missions to improve monitoring and evaluation
should be supported by an important and sustained technical assistance effort.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1    The Borrower's greatest strength on this project was its commitment to increase agricultural
production through irrigation.  Consequently, considerable efforts were made to improve water
availability and distribution. Start-up problems were easily overcome once project managers became
familiar with Bank procedures. Similarly, other problems such as the level of counterpart funds, import
permits, provision of letters of credit, were resolved during project implementation. In order to support
the formation of WUAs countrywide, Government passed the relevant legislation in 1987, which provided
an added impetus to the project. The Borrower also took the initiative to utilize loan savings to expand
the physical infrastructure beyond that foreseen in the SAR.
9.2    On the other hand, the Borrower had problems implementing the extension service in the field,
despite the existence of a well structured institution. Similarly, the monitoring and evaluation system did



- 11 -
not function as foreseen even though considerable support (including from USAID for Kasserine) had
been provided. The organization of farmers into WUAs proved to be difficult but this is not unexpected
when considering experiences from elsewhere.  Credit delivery by the Borrower was generally
satisfactory but a greater effort is needed to ensure timely repayment of loans.
10. Project Documentation and Data
10.1   The SAR and the Preparation Report were used by the Agencies as a guide during project
implementation and proved to be useful. The Aide-Memoires and annexes prepared during project
supervision were also useful.
10.2  The data required for preparation of the PCR were not readily available despite repeated requests
by Bank supervision missions. The data finally provided was not organized or consistent and had not
been analyzed or evaluated. The lessons learned from this experience are mentioned in Section 8
concerning the need for long-term technical assistance.



- 12 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Analysis (Kairouan component)
We are in general agreement with Part III of the Project Completion Report, except for some
corrections which should be made, namely:
Part III - Table 4
27 PPIs have been rehabilitated, not 28 as indicated in Table 4, as the Rakkada PPI rehabilitation
was cancelled. With respect to the Additional Program, two new PPIs were established and five were
rehabilitated as a new irrigation scheme was implemented, i.e. pipes, construction of bridges, opening
of feeder roads, etc.. (Bir Djedid, Draa Tammar = new creation, Chiha-ZaAfrana II, V, VI, Jlassi,
Trabelsia = rehabilitation).
Part I
As for Part III, some corrections should be made to certain points covered by the PCR:
1)    the analysis presented in the report relates to the Kairouan and Kasserine Governorates;
perhaps it would have been better to present it by Governorate;
2)    a project midterm review would have been helpful;
3)    the Bank's clearance procedures for bidding documents should be revised in order to
reduce time span between the preparation of bidding documents and the establishment of
contracts. Standard specifications should be established for each type of bid (pipes,
works, pumping equipment, etc..) and selection criteria and bid evaluation should be
defined for approval by the Bank's first mission, each contract then being reviewed
during the following supervision missions;
4)    for payment of foreign exchange to local suppliers, it would be desirable to have an
account with the Central Bank rather than systematically make the request to the Bank.
Borrower's Performance
Despite problems encountered at project start-up, the former OMIVAK has successfully achieved
the various project components. The start-up delay is due to the lack of familiarity with Bank procedures
and guidelines, and also to insufficient level of counterpart funds.
The closing date was extended by six months because of a dispute with a contractor and delay
in the establishment of the PPIs under the additional program.
It should be noted, however, that most of the physical components of the project have been
successfully executed. Savings on project funds have allowed implementation of the additional program.
-     The former OMIVAK has encountered many difficulties in the establishment of WUAs



- 13 -
even though major efforts were put into this activity;
-     technical problems mentioned in the PCR concern only some surface wells and not the
PPIs. The large size of motor pumps on PSs is explained by the fact that the level of the
aquifer often varies. In fact, during the long drought periods of the project, there was
an aquifer drawdown, therefore water had to be pumped from a deeper level and electric
engines therefore needed to be more powerful.
It should also be noted that the Borrower's greatest strength was its full commitment to increase
agricultural production through irrigation. Consequently, water resource development was increased
through efficiency improvement. However, the following remarks should be made:
1)    the new CRDA needs the same management flexibility as the former OMIVAK;
2)    staff in charge of project execution should be rewarded in consideration of the efforts
made throughout the execution;
3)    systematic recruitment of expensive foreign consultants should be avoided, especially
when project management and follow-up is the responsibility of OMIVAK's technicians.
Relationship between Bank and Borrower
The relationship between OMIVAK and the Bank can be described as one of cooperation,
assistance and guidance throughout the project period.
Conclusion
The project has been very successful in achieving its objectives, namely agricultural production
increase, water resource mobilization and rational use of water, delivery of credit and agricultural
services, and increase in cropped areas.
Yields of the various crops have increased through the efforts made by OMIVAK to provide
extension and credit to farmers.
However, the establishment of WUAs continues to be a difficult task which will require further
considerable effort.
Project Design and Organization (Kasserine component)
The Project design at appraisal and during the establishment of the additional program, was
appropriate and it satisfies the needs of the Tunisian Government and the farmers in Central Tunisia. The
project contributes efficiently and directly to the achievement of the VIth Plan objectives of economic and
social development in Tunisia. Its activities are in line with the Tunisian Government's agricultural
development strategy and they satisfy the specific needs of irrigating farmers in Central Tunisia.
As a result, the impact of the project on increased agricultural production at farm, regional and
national level, as well as on the improvement of farmers incomes and new employment opportunities, has
been rapidly felt by the project beneficiaries, and the regional and national authorities of the Ministry of



- 14 -
Agriculture.
The designation of the former ODTC - endowed with financial autonomy and management
flexibility for executing and managing the project, in collaboration with the directorates of the Ministries
of Agriculture, Finance, Equipment and Housing (DGPC) - has greatly contributed to the successful
achievements of the project.
Other rural development projects and projects for institutional strengthening of planning,
management and evaluation of rural development projects, financed by USAID (strengthening of potable
water institutions in rural areas, and an extension project), and the Bank (Irrigation Management
Improvement Project, First and Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans, etc.), have largely
contributed to the adequate design and execution of the project.
The low level of counterpart funds allocated in 1983 affected project start-up. Project execution
did not encounter major difficulties, except for the issuance of letters of credit required for the import
of hydro-mechanical equipment for the Sbiba PPI rehabilitation (Sbiba Dam water conveyance). This
rehabilitation did not take place due to the complex administrative procedures and bureaucratic
constraints.
The regular supervision missions made by the Bank and the Ministry of Agriculture were very
useful in ensuring smooth project execution.
Project Results and Impact
The project has been successful. It has achieved its major objectives and has largely contributed
to rural development in the project area. Its direct impact on the agricultural sector, and indirect impact
on other sectors, were very positive, and can be translated into:
a)    an increase in irrigated areas following rehabilitation of PPIs and replacement of six
wells;
b)    improved irrigation management following rehabilitation of PPIs and deepening and
cleaning of surface wells;
c)     an increase in number of farmers benefitting from extension of agricultural techniques
following the construction of extension centers, two veterinary centers and one
mechanized farming unit;
d)    increased agricultural production and higher farmer incomes as a result of strengthened
extension, marketing and animal production services.
These positive results encourage promotion and development of the irrigated sector in Central
Tunisia.
All project activities foreseen (except for the Sbiba Dam water conveyance as mentioned above)
have been fully executed and completed in accordance with the conditions in the Loan Agreement.
The project proceeded slower than expected in 1983 due to budgetary constraints (only TD



- 15 -
400,000 were available to the former ODTC to start the project). The project was at full development
in 1985. Its initial program was completed in 1987, a year ahead of schedule. The following was
achieved ahead of schedule:
-     creation of PPIs at Ain Hedia, Mziral I and II;
-      construction of reserve tubewells;
-      procurement of maintenance equipment; and
-      construction of two extension centers.
The costs of those activities were lower than appraisal estimates. The savings realized from the
Bank loan (US$ 0,874 million) and the Tunisian Government allocation (TD 0,700 million) were
reallocated, in agreement with the Bank, for the financing of activities which completed and strengthened
the initial activities of the project.
The new activities financed from savings are also in line with the project objectives and Tunisia's
economic and social development plans.
They consist of:
-      extension of the Feriana PPI (80 ha);
-      creation of a PPI at El Hchim (80 ha);
-      creation of a PPI at Rohia III (100 ha);
-      creation of two reserve tubewells at Sbiba;
-      construction of two extension centers; and
-      rehabilitation of the Sbiba dam water conveyance system.
The drought which affected Tunisia during 1987, 1988 and 1989 had a slightly negative impact
on the project, mainly at the level of incentive measures. All the activities realized under the project are
efficient, cost-effective and have achieved their intended objectives.
-      The rehabilitation of nine PPIs has reinforced water supplies and led to production
increases in these PPIs. Water flow efficiency measures in the rehabilitated irrigation
networks have shown that the efficiency rate has increased from 60 to 85%.
-      The five newly constructed PPIs are currently fully operational.
-      The five reserve tubewells constructed during the project have been equipped and
activated.
-      All newly constructed centers (five extension centers, two veterinary centers and one
mechanized farming unit) are operational, staffed and equipped with necessary materials,
and provide efficient support to farmers.
-     The purchase of repair and maintenance equipment has enabled the replacement of the
equipment of the maintenance unit, created in 1990 in the context of the reorganization



- 16 -
of regional agricultural services at Kasserine.
The breakdowns of irrigation pumping stations have considerably diminished.
The intervention of maintenance teams (whose number increased from one team in 1983 to four
teams in 1990) has clearly improved. They are becoming quick and efficient.
-     The equipment and accessories for shallow wells are operational since 1985 and are
operated by farmers. This equipment enabled the cleaning and deepening of about 800
wells until the end of 1990.
The 41 km of rehabilitated feeder roads are currently operational and are used by farmers
for inputs supply and marketing. These roads have broken the isolation of eight PPIs
(900 ha) and about 520 surface wells irrigating 1050 ha.
Bank Performance
During project preparation, appraisal and execution, Bank performance has been satisfactory and
very positive. As mentioned previously, the regular follow-up provided by supervision missions was very
useful to project managers.
Bank missions identified problems and constraints, participated in the establishment of practical
and appropriate solutions, assisted and advised Tunisian authorities in their decision-making.
However, the cost of some activities was underestimated at appraisal. This is the case for the
extension centers, veterinary centers and feeder roads. This led to delays in execution and difficulties
encountered by the former ODTC to justify to the Ministry of Plan and Finance the authorization of
additional funds to cover the local costs of the Project.
Borrower derformance
During project preparation, appraisal and execution, the Borrower, convinced of the necessity to
increase agricultural production in the irrigated areas through the project, was strongly committed to
achieving the project and completing it within the deadline and within the estimated costs. Problems and
difficulties encountered at project start-up were resolved (import licenses, disputes with contractors,etc.).
The Borrower also made considerable efforts to fulfill the conditions of the loan and project agreements.
Several additional and incentive measures were taken by the Tunisian authorities to:
achieve the project objectives within the anticipated schedule;
ensure the project success;
alleviate Government financial and other obligations;
promote and encourage private sector activities in various fields;
promote farmers and private sector participation in the development effort;



- 17 -
-      develop institutional and community spirit in the region.
The main incentive measures already in effect are as follows:
1)    streamlining of procedures concerning the creation of service cooperatives and farmers'
associations;
2)    four service cooperatives were created and assisted by the Government in Sbeitla,
Foussana, Fefiana and Sbiba;
3)    reduction of state subsidies and alignment of the tariffs of the former ODTC and the
CRDA of Kasserine with the ones from SONAM for mechanized services, which allows
the recovery of the hourly cost of mechanization services;
4)     gradual transfer of activities of the CRDA of Kasserine with respect to marketing input
supplies and management of milk collection centers, cold storage facilities and
mechanized farming units. For example, transfer of the CRDA cold storage facility to
the Sbiba agricultural services cooperative through a rental agreement and transfer of
input supplies and mechanized farming services to the Sbeitla agricultural services
cooperative;
5)    transfer through rental agreement of the management and operation of three surface wells
deepening and cleaning units, acquired under the project, to three private enterprises
located in Thala, Sbeitla and Feriana;
6)    formal establishment of and training and technical assistance to 100 WUAs (79 for water
supply, 21 for irrigation) for management and operation of irrigation networks (including
pumping stations) and potable water points in rural areas;
7)     streamlining and shortening of administrative procedures for the creation of WUAs, by
decentralizing and delegating to the Governor the Minister of Agriculture's
responsibilities for creation of WUAs.
8)     progressive irrigation water tariff increases in PPIs managed by the Kasserine CRDA
(yearly rate of increase of 12%), with the approval of the Kasserine CRDA advisory
committee (replacing the ODTC Board) of the yearly increase schedule, and the program
for full recovery by 1995 of network operating and maintenance costs. The sale price
of a m3 of irrigation water for the Kasserine PPIs will be 56 millimes in 1995. The
current sales price is between 24 and 27 millimes/m3, depending on PPIs;
9)     decentralization of the Ministry of Agriculture responsibilities to each Governorate,
aiming at strengthening regional authorities, increasing responsibilities of the Ministry
of Agriculture regional staff, developing and reinforcing agricultural planning at the
regional level by restructuring regional services of the Ministry of Agriculture in each
Governorate and creating a unique regional structure by Governorate which will be called
CRDA and will have the same management autonomy as the former OMVs;
10)   transfer of some powers from Government to Governors to strengthen and develop
regional administration, increase responsibilities at the regional level, improve public



- 18 -
services and accelerate Tunisia's rural and regional development (see Decree No. 89-457
of March 24, 1989);
11)   progressive reduction of budgetary allocations and state subsidies to FOSDA and increase
in interest rates for agricultural credit, with the mobilization of other credit sources for
farmers (for instance the IBRD 4th Credit project, etc..).  This has allowed the
elimination of comparative advantages of state subsidized services;
12)    Because of debt rescheduling measures taken by Government during t}e severe droughts
of 1987 to 1989, farmers were able to use the IBRD Fourth line of Credit.
Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
During preparation, appraisal and implementation of this project, and all other Bank-financed
projects (Irrigation Management Improvement Project, ASAL I, ASAL II, etc..), the relationship between
the Bank and the Borrower has always been excellent.
It is a relation of collaboration and mutual assistance and understanding. Both parties have always
maintained a relationship aiming at the success of the project.
Comments on Part I of the PCR and the Statistical Data contained in Part III
T'he contents of Parts I and III of the Project Completion Report are accurate, except for some
information missing in Table 4 of Part III: Project Implementation, as follows:
-       -construction of extension centers: five centers were projected and executed under the
basic program and two under the additional program, i.e., seven in total;
reserve wells: three projected and executed under the basic program and two executed
under the additional program, i.e. five in total;
construction of veterinary stations: two stations were constructed and not one as
mentioned in Table 4.



- 19 -
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number   Year of            Purpose             Loan            Status
approval                             Amount
(US$
millions)
2502 -TUN      1985    Northwest Agricultural           8.8    Closed 12/30/91
Production Project
2573 - TUN      1985    Irrigation Management and      22.0         Under
Improvement Project                    implementation
2605 - TUN      1985    Gabes Irrigation Project       21.7         Under
implementation
2865 - TUN      1987    Fourth Agricultural Credit     30.0    Closed 11/19/91
Project
2870 - TUN      1987    Forestry Development           20.0         Under
Project                                 implementation
2754 - TUN      1988    Sector Adjustment Loan         150.0    Closed 6/30/89
3078 - TUN     1989    Second Sector Adjustment        84.0         Under
Loan                                    implementation
3217 - TUN     1990    Research and Extension           17.0        Under
Project                               Implementation



- 20 -
2. Project Timetable
Item           |  Planned Date        Revised Date           Actual Date
Reconnaissance                                                          Oct. 1980
Identification                                                          Jan. 1981
Preparation                                                             May 1982
Pre-appraisal                                                           Jun. 1982
Appraisal                     Jan. 1983               -                 Jan. 1983
Negotiations                  Dec. 1982               -                 Dec. 1982
Board Approval                Jan. 1983               -                 Jan. 1983
Loan Signature                Feb. 1983               -                 Feb. 1983
Loan Effectiveness            Sept. 1983          Jun. 1983             Nov. 1983
Project Completion            Jun. 1989               -                 Jun. 1989
Loan Closing                  Jun. 1990               -                 Dec. 1990



- 21 -
3. Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
BIRD                  SAR Estimates        Actual     Actual as %
Fiscal               Initial   Adjusted   disbursement  of Estimates
Year    Semester           l
Ending               US$ million
1984   XII 1983      0.4      0.4          0.3            75
VI 1984      1.2      1.2          0.6            50
1985    XI 1984      1.8       1.8          1.8          100
VI 1985      3.5      3.5          3.5           100
1986   XII 1985      4.5      4.5          4.5           100
VI 1986      8.4      8.4          5.5            65
1987   XII 1986      10.4     10.4         6.2            60
VI 1987     11.9      11.9         6.4            54
1988   XII 1987      13.4     11.1         6.7            60
VI 1988     14.7      12.2         7.2            59
1989   XII 1988      15.7     13.0         8.3            64
VI 1989     16.5      13.7         8.8            64
1990   XII 1989      16.5     13.7         9.6            70
IV 1990     16.5      13.7         10.0           73
1991   XII 1990      16.5     13.7         10.0           73
IV 1991     16.5      10.3         10.3          100
Cancellation of US$2.8 million on Oct. 9, 1987
Cancellation of US$3.4 million on May 15, 1991, date of the last disbursement



- 22 -
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                              Unit      Appraisal     Actual or PCR
Estimate '      Estimate
BASIC PROGRAMME
Rehabilitation of PPIs:
. Kairouan (28)                                                      ha           3,200         3,200
. Kasserine (9)                                                      ha           1,500         1,500
Establishment of new PPIs:
. Kairouan (I)                                                       ha             210          450
. Kasserine (4)                                                      ha             345          345
Installation of piezometers
. Kairouan                                                          unit             20           18
Provision of mechanized farming units
Kairouan                                                           unit             2             3
. Kasserine                                                         unit              I            I
Construction and equipment of collecting and distribution centres
. Kairouan                                                          unit              2            2
. Kasserine                                                         unit              3            3
Construction and equipment of milk collection centres
. Kairouan                                                          unit              2             1
Establishment of pilot schemes for integrated rainfed/irrigated fodder
roduction
. Kairouan                                                          unit              2            2
Carry out feasibility studies for future investment
. Kairouan                                                          unit              1            I
. Kasserine                                                         unit              I            0 1
Provision of shallow wells support units
. Kairouan                                                          unit              4            2
. Kasserine                                                         unit              3             3
Construction of veterinary stations
. Kairouan                                                          unit              I            O
. Kasserine                                                         unit              2            1
Rehabilitation of roads
. Kairouan                                                          km               90           90
Kasserine                                                          km              40            40
DDITIONAL PROGRAMME
Rehabilitation of PPIs
. Kairouan (5)                                                       ha             710            710
Establishment of new PPIs
. Kairouan (1)                                                       ha             240           240
. Kasserine (2)                                                      ha             220           220
Construction and equipment of a cold storage facility
. Kairouan                                                          unit              1            I
f The Additional Programme was appraised in October 1989.
Y Made without total cost increase.
f Not needed; no demand.
& Financed from another source.
f 2 financed from TUN budget.



- 23 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
SAR        Actual  I Actual Costs as % of SAR
Project Components                     Estimate                      Estimates
D million
Irrigation Rehabilitation
. Kairouan                                                   2.8        3.16               112
. Kasserine                                                  0.8        1.43               178
New Irrigation Schemes
. Kairouan                                                   1.1         3.4               309
. Kasserine                                                  1.7        2.63               154
On-Farm Investments
. Kairouan                                                   2.0        2.48               124
. Kasserine                                                  1.3        4.35               334
Research and Extension
Kairouan                                                    2.2        0.59                26
Kasserine                                                   0.8        0.26                32
Roads and Buildings
Kairouan                                                    2.1        1.84                87
Kasserine                                                   0.7         0.8               114
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance
Kairouan                                                    2.4        2.19                91
Kasserine                                                   0.8        0.33                41
Contingencies
Physical                                                    1.7          -
Prices                                                      3.8          -
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                             24.2       23.46               97
B. Financing
Source              IPlanned Loan Agreemeni      Revised       I       Actual        Actual as % of Planned
US$ million equivalent
IBRD                          16.5                 13.7                 10.5                  63
BNA/Farmers                   7.6                  7.6                  8.13                  106
Government                   19.7                  19.7                 10.8                  54
TOTAL                        43.8                  41.0                29.43                  67
Cancelled 2.8 million September 1987. Balance of 3.4 million cancelled at loan closing.



- 24 -
6. Project Results
A. Crop Area and Production in the PPIs
Item              Pre-Project      SAR Estimate at Full Development    PCR Estimate at Full
Development 1991
Area  Yield  Production    Area      Yield  Production  Area    Yield  Production
ha   t/ha          t         ha      t/ha        t       ha      t/ha         t
Fruit Trees
. Olives       1,250       2.8   3,500       1,350        7.5  10,130    2,028       5    10,140
. Apricots       340       4.5   1,530         400        9.0   3,600     570        7      3,990
. Almonds        250       0.7     180         250        1.4    350      370         1.5     555
. OthersfV       240       8.0   1,930         260       12     3,080     609        8      4,872
Sub-total   2,080            7,140       2,260             17,160    3,577             19,557
Summer Vegetables
. Hot pepper     240       7.0   1,650         250       11.0   2,750     473        10     4,730
. Tomatoes       120      11.7   1,350         190       20.0   3,780     354        18     6,372
Potatoes         20      12.0    240          70        18.0   1,300     227       14      3,178
Others           60      13.0    770          60       20.0   1,150      483       14      6,762
Mel./Water melon 320     15.0   4,730        160       23.0   3,700      324       18      5,832
Sub-total    760             8,740         730             12,700    1,861             26,874
Winter Vegetables
Broad beans     380      7.7   2,910         360        11.0   3,690     442        9      3,978
Others          150      13.0   1,950        350       20.0   7,000      845       18    15,210
Sub-total    530             4,860         710             10,690    1,287             19,188
Forage Crops
Vetchoat (dry)   160     4.5    730          330        6.5   2,150      521        6.5   3,386
Alfalfa         120      19.6   2,320        300       45.0  13,500      311       24      7,464
Sorgho           40      21.0    860         240       41.0   9,840       89       25.5   2,269
Barley          180      19.0   3,500        380       30.0  11,400      311       22.8   7,090
Sub-total    510             7,410       1,250             36,890    1,232             20,209
Cereals          900       1.1    990          470        2.3   1,080    1,639       2.2   3,605
Industrial Crops    -      -         -         120        2.0    230       135        2       270
T O T A L      4,780                         5,540                       9,731
' Apples and Pears.



- 25 -
6. Project Results
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return
Project Life                          SAR Estimate                  PCR Estimate 2'
20 years                                    16                            15
!/ See Economic Analysis, Table 9 F.
The main assumptions forming the basis of the calculation of the ERR are summarized hereunder:
a. SAR Assumptions
Estimated average life of investments: 20 years
Value of net incremental production on PPIs (new and rehabilitated) and private irrigation schemes.
Economic benefits equal the incremental value of crop production projected to result from the Project,
valued at economic prices.
Costs include incremental farm input costs, project investment costs and operating costs valued at
economic prices.
b. PCR Assumptions
Estimated average life of investments: 20 years
Value of net incremental production of only PPIs (new and rehabilitated) have been accounted for.
The capital cost of the irrigation rehabilitation and the new irrigation schemes, the construction of
roads and buildings have been accounted for in the analysis.
The capital cost of on-farm investments (mainly for the private irrigation schemes), research and
extension and institutional development have not been accounted for. The benefits from these
investments have benefited all producers in the area. These benefits cannot be fully captured in the
analysis.
Economic prices have been based on prices indicated in Table 9C.
Operation and maintenance costs have been estimated to be about 30% of the annual cost of the
CRDAs during the last years.



- 26 -
7. Compliance with Loan Covenants
Agreement| Section  Deadline for                    Description of Covenant                             Status
I        I Compliance                                                             T
Loan        3.01(a)             Government to take all actions to enable ODTC, OMIVAK, BNT &  Done
DGPC to perform their obligations
Loan        3.02                Gov. to cause BNT to provide agriculture credit               Done
under terms & conditions satisfactory to Bank
Loan        3.03                Gov. to allocate to DGPC in each year funds to maintain the roads  Done
improved under the Project
Loan        3.04     June 1984 Gov. to employ experts in agr. input supply, marketing & coop.    Done
develop. and in rural road engineering
Loan        3.05(a)             DGPC to furnish to the Bank, plans, spec., reports, referring to Part Done
C of the project
Loan        3.05(b)             DGPC to maintain records on progress, cost and benefits of Part C o Done
the project
Loan        3.05(c)  Dec. 1990 DGPC to prepare a completion report of Part C of the project   Done
Loan        3.06     Dec. 1984 OMIVAK & ODTC to establish cost accounting and cost allocation  Done
systems
Loan        3.07     Sep. 1986 Gov. to review with the Bank the annual budgets for O&M of     Done
OMIVAK and ODTC
Loan        3.08     Jan. 1985  Gov. to make special alloc. of funds in OMIVAK & ODTC ann.    Done
budgets for O&M of irrig. systems
Loan        3.09(a)             Gov. to define max. land holdings & farmers contributions to  Done
irrigation investments
Loan        3.09(b)             Gov. to complete before start of irrig. in the new PPIs the   Done
delimitation of plots
Loan        3.10     Dec. 1986 Gov. to establish a framework to set up water users associations  Done
Loan        3.12     June 1984 Gov. to propose different rates of water charges               System tested without
success. New approach
agreed under IMIP Project
Loan        3.13                Gov. to monitor aquifers of the project area and inform Bank of its  Done for deep tubewells only
findings



- 27-
7. Compliance with Loan Covenants (page 2)
PA          2.04(b)            OMIVAK & ODTC to maintain records & supply Bank with reports Done
on the execution of the Project
PA          2.04(d)  Dec. 1990 OMIVAK & ODTC to prepare a completion report of Part B of the  Done partly
Project
PA          2.06(d)  Sep. 1984 OMIVAK & ODTC to furnish Bank draft terms & conditions of    Main principles discussed
agreements between them and project PPIs farmers             and applied on actual
contracts
PA          2.08     Sep. 1985 OMIVAK to implement integrated rainfed/irrig. pilot schemes for   Done
fodder production
PA          2.09     June 1985 OMIVAK to submit to Bank a long-term agreement input supply &   Done
financial plan
PA          2.11               OMIVAK to establish fees for use of collection centers & veter.    Done for collection centres.
stations so as to recover O&M costs                          No veter. station built.
PA          2.10               ODTC to establish fees for use of collection centers & veter. stations Done. Prophylactic veter.
so as to recover O&M costs                                   services free of charge
PA          2.12     June 1986 OMIVAK to submit to Bank plan of management of collection    Done
centers by coop. and private operators
PA          2.11     June 1986 ODTC to submit to Bank plan of manag. of collection centers by    Done
coop. and private operators
PA          2.13    Dec. 1989 OMIVAK to increase water charges aiming at full recovering O&M   Not fully complied
costs of PPIs
PA          2.12    Dec. 1989 ODTC to increase water charges aiming at full recovering O&M  Not fully complied
costs of PPIs
PA          4.01     June 1987 OMIVAK to maintain fin. records & separate accounts & sub. acc.  Done
for Project & audit them
PA          4.02     June 1987 ODTC to maintain financial records & separate accounts & sub-  Done
accounts for Project and audit them
PA          2.10    Dec. 1983 OMIVAK to furnish Bank a plan to establish a marketing unit for   Not needed under new
agr. products                                                policy
PA          2.09     Dec. 1983 ODTC to furnish Bank a plan for establ. a marketing unit for agr.   Not needed under new
products                                                     policy
PA          2.08     June 1985 ODTC to submit to Bank a long-term agric.                    Covenant included in the
input supply & financial plan                               framework of irrigation
management project. No
detailed plan provided



- 28 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks per FY)
TO
TASK           FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  Total
Preparation             82.5    0.7      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -    83.2
Appraisat               25.8   31.1      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -    56.9
Negotiations/Board         -     3.1     -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -      3.1
Loan Processing (LOP)   6.0    9.3       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -    15.3
Sub-total              114.3   4.2       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -   158.5
Supervision                -     5.5   14.1   16.2    3.7    3.1    4.5    2.5    6.9    0.3    0.0   56.8
Anrvual ilaplentation      -      -      -      -       -      -     0.2      -      -      -       -     0.2
Review
Project Administration    -      0.7    0.2     -       -     0.3     -       -      -      -      -      1.2
Project Completion         -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -     0.3     -     8.0    8.3
Report                        -               _    _    _                                            
Sub-total                0.0    6.2   14.3   16.2    3.7    3.4    4.7    2.5    7.2    0.3    8.0   66.5
TOTAL                  114.3   50.4   14.3   16.2    3.7    3.4    4.7    2.5    7.2    0.3    8.0  225.0



- 29 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
B- Mission Data
Stage of Project   Year  Number of  Period in  Specialization          Performance       Trend c/    Type of
Cycle                     Persons      FieLd      Represented a/       Rating Status b/              Problem n/
(day)
raisaL          1983      7           n.a.        I,H,A,E,C,F           -                 -           -
Supervision 1       1983     2           3           I,A                   2                  1          N,F
2      1983      3           7           I,A,F                 2                 1           -
3      1984      3           8           I,A,F                 1                 1           -
4      1984      2           5           I,A                   1                 1           F,O
5      1987   n.a.           n-a.        n.a.                  1                 -           -
6      1988   n.a.           n.a.        n.a.                  1                 -           -
7      1988   n.a.           n.a.        n.a.                  1                 -          -
8      1989   n.a.           n.a.        n.a.                  1                 -           -
|1          9       1989     2            n.a.        I,E                   1                 -          -
1: Irrigation Engineer.  H: Highway Engineer.   A: Agronomist.   E: Economist.   C: Credit Specialist
F: Financial Analyst.
l 1: ProbLem free or minor problems.   2: Moderate probLems.
2 1: Improving.
2 N: Kanagerial.   F: Financial.  0: Others.
N Not recorded on Form 590.



- 30 -
9. Economic Analysis            A. Economic Prices of Cereals!/
(in 1991 constant prices)
Unit      Hard   Soft Wheat  Barley
Wheat
199112000 199112000 199112000
Projected International Market Price b'C'        US $/t   151  225   138  205  821  123
Adjustment for quality d'                        US $/t       -    - - 28  - 38      -    -
International Freight & Insurance Costs          US $/t    23   23   23   23   23   23
Border price e/                                  US $/t   174 248  133  190  105  146
D/t      160 228  122  175   96  134
Port, Handling & Local Transport Costs             D/t       13  13   13   13   13   13
Import Party Price at Depot                        D/t      173 241   135  188  109  147
Transport, Handling & Marketing Costs (Depot -     D/t       12  12   12   12   12   12
Farm) f'
Economic Price at Farm-gate                        D/t      161  229  123  176   97  133
-J Tunisia is a net importer of cereals.
b/ Commodity Prices and Price Projections - June 1991. International Commodity Markets Division World
Bank for wheat n I CWRS Ex stores St Laurence.
cl International market price of Hard Wheat and Barley assumed to be 10 % higher and 40 % lower
respectively than that of Soft Wheat.
' Assumed to be 20 % of the price of no I CWRS.
et US$1 = DO.92 (September 1991).
r' Source: Report No. 146/90 CP-TUN65 CR plus 10%.



- 31 -
9. Economic Analysis
B. Economic Price of Cotton
(in 1991 constant prices)
Unit              Cotton
1991        2000
Projected International Market Price s                 US$/t        1,820       1,795
International Freight & Insurance                      US$/t          23           23
Border Price F                                         US$/t        1,833       1,818
D/t        1,686        1,672
Port, Handling & Local Transport Costs                  D/t           13           13
Import Parity Price at Ginnery                          D/t         1,699       1,685
Less Cost of ginning                                    D/t           63           63
Value of Fibre net of Ginning Costs                     D/t         1,633       1,622
Add Value of Cotton Seed/kg of Fibre                    D/t           97           97
Seed Cotton equivalent at 38% Ginning Outturn           D/t          657          653
Less Cost of Transport and Purchase                     D/t           13           18
Farmer Reference Price at Farm-gate                     D/t          644          635
Commodity Prices and Price Projections - June 1991. International Commodity Markets
Division, World Bank, adjusted by the G-5 Manufactured Unit Value Index, CIF Europe.
US$1 = DO.92 (September 1991).



- 32 -
9. Economic Analysis
C. Economic and Financial Prices at Farm-Gate
Unit      Pre-Project Situation          PCR-Situation
Financial Conversio Economic Financial Conversion Economi
Prices   n Factor   Prices   Prices    Factor   c Prices
Output
Hard wheat           D/t       88.6      0.98     86.8      240       0.67     161
Soft wheat           D/t       80.2      0.93     74.6      183       0.67     123
Barley               D/t       63.4      1.03     65.3      150       0.65      97
Hot pepper           D/t      131.0      1.02    134.0      262       0.84     221
Olives               D/t       80.0      1.16     92.8      172       1.04     180
Apricots             D/t      123.0      1.20    147.6      233       1.19     278
Broad beans          D/t       77.0      1.00     77.0      206       1.00     206
Cotton               D/t      400.0      1.00    400.0      n.a.         -     644
Forage crop       '000 D/    100.0       1.00    100.0      200       1.00     200
forage
unit
Inputs
Triple super 45%     D/t       46.5      1.72     80.0      136       0.84     114
Labour             D/man-       2.0       0.5      1.0     3.45       0.63      2.2
day
Mechanized traction    D/h      3.0      0.76      2.3      7.5        0.6      4.5
Irrigation water    D/m3      0.012      1.83    0.022    0.030        2.3   0.070
Forage units have been calculated on the basis of:
Vetchoat (dry): 0.5 forage units per kg
Alfalfa: 0. 13 forage units per kg
Sorgho: 0.15 forage units per kg
Barley: 0.14 forage units per kg



- 33 -
9. Economic Analysis
D. Cost of Irrigation Water under Private Wells
Optimal        PCR
Engineering    Situation
Situation
. COST OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT
Diesel motor 5 hp with pulley "'                                   1,000
Diesel motor 12 hp with pulley                                                   1,800
Multi-stage centrifugal pump (vertical shaft Q = 3 I/sec) + chassis,  1,500
elts etc. E'
Multi-stge centrifugal pump (vertical shaft Q = 5 I/sec + chassis,               2,200
belts etc.
Sub-total                                        2,500         4,000
. RUNNING COSTS
Fuel 0.8 1/h at 0.29 D/ld/L                                       0.232
Fuel I 1/h at 0.29 D/l                                                           0.290
Oil 3 1/15 days
= 0.2 I/day (10 h) = 0.021 I/h at D/l                              0.04
Oil 3 1/12 days
= 0.251 I/day (10 h) = 0.025 1/h at 2 D/l                                        0.05
Depreciation over years
2,500/6 years = 416 D/yr
4,000/6 years = 666 D/yr
10 h/day in summer x 180 days = 1,800 h
4 h/day in winter x 180 days = 720 h
Sub-total 2,520 h
416 D/yr/2,520 h                                                  0.165
666 D/yr/2,520 h                                                                 0.264
Repairs and Maintenance
12.5% cap. cost/2,520h                                            0.124         0.198
Sub-total                                        0.561         0.802
Cost per m3 with labour costs
Labour 0.5 h/day x 360 days = 180 h
180 h of 8 days = 22.5 days/yr
22.5 days/yr x 3.45 D/day = 77.6 D/yr
77.6 D/2,520 h = 0.030 D/h
0.561 + 0.030 = 0.591 D/h
0.802 + 0.30 = 0.832 D/h
0.591 D/h: 10.8 m3/h =                                             0.054
0.832 D/h: 10.8 m3/h  =0.077
Not currently available in Tunisia. Note: This type of equipment is the most costly combination.
Single Stage centrifugal pumps would reduce cost by about US$1,000.-
Despite having a pumping capacity off 5 I/sec. The current rate of extraction is only 3 I/sec.



9. Economic Analysis
E. Farm Models with and without Project
Total Area       Fruit Trees            Winter               Su=_er         Forage Crops   Cereats        Industriat
Vegetabtes          Vegetabtes                                         Crops
ha
Without Project
PPI Rehabilitation
Kairouan
. ModeL A (i) (800 farms 1,400 Ha)                         1.75              1.00                 0.10                 0.25           0.06          0.25            -
. ModeL A (ii) (509 farms 890 ha)                          1.75              -                    0.45                 0.50           0.19          0.52            -
. Model B (77 farms 520 ha)                                6.75              3.70                 0.65                 0.75            0.60         0.72            -
. Model C (37 farms 573 ha)                               15.50             12.00                 1.03                 0.95            1.03         0.60            -
Kasserine
. ModeL D (531 farms 1,502 ha)                             2.83              0.92                 0.25                 0.37            0.48         0.25            -
With Project
PPI Rehabilitation
Kairouan                                                                                                                                                                       4s
Model A (i) (1,005 farms 1,758 Ha)                       1.75              1.30                 0.30                 0.50            0.12          0.50           -
Model A (ii) (604 farms 1,057 ha)                        1.75              -                    0.55                 0.65            0.26          0.75           -
Modet B (77 farms 520 ha)                                6.75              4.51                 0.65                 1.00            1.00          0.82           -
ModeL C (37 farms 573 ha)                               15.50             14.00                 1.13                 1.20            1.42          0.82           -
Kasserine
. ModeL D (531 farms 1,502 ha)                             2.83              1.10                 0.41                 0.97            0.90         0.51            -
New PPI:
Kairouan
Model E (461 farms 746 ha)                               1.62              1.2                  0.50                 0.40            0.40          0.50           0.07
Model F (82 farms 317 ha)                                3.87              2.4                  1.09                 1.00            1.29         0.70            1.22
Kasserine
Modet G (67 farms 192 ha)                                  2.83               1.10                0.41                 0.97            0.90          0.51            -
TOTAL without project: 4,883 ha
TOTAL with project: 6,665 ha



- 35 -
9. Economic Analysis
F. Cashflow for Economic Rate of Return
1983 1 1984   1985  1 1986 1 1987 1 1988 1 1989  1990  1991-
2002
1991 Constant D '000
Investment and Operating Costs   1,111  7,858   11,173  3,832  4,119   472   450   334    312
Additional Benefits '
Fruits                             0     0        385   760  1,328  1,866  2,965  3,223   3,455
Summer vegetables                  0     0        331   636  1,088  1,496  2,332  2,512   2,667
Winter vegetables                  0     0        217   413   703   956  1,485  1,586   1,678
Forage crops                       0     0         53   106   187   266   427   475    542
Cereals Ai                         0     0         41    80   138   193   303   330    353
Industrial crops                   0     0         26    51    98   148   174   175    173
Additional Costs "                 0     0        316   614  1,063  1,478  2,306  2,490  2,661
Cashflow                         -1,111 -7,858  -10,434 -2,398 -1,637  2,979  4,931  5,477   5,89
'' Investment costs in current dinars have been adjusted for their foreign part by the G5MUV index (World
Bank, June 1991) and for their local part by the Tunisian Inflation Rate Index. Taxes and duties have been
assumed to represent 25% of total costs.
~' Operating costs in current dinars have been adjusted by the Tunisian Inflation Rate Index. Taxes are assumed
to amount to 10% of total costs.
' See Table 9C for Economic Prices. Table 6A for Area and Yields and 9E for Farm Models.
u, Cereals are valued at an average price of D135 on the assumption that there is 50% hard wheat, 25% soft
wheat and 25% barley.
" Additional costs have been assumed to amount to 30% of additional value of benefits.



