Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4128- TUN
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 3, 1983
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$1.00 = D .555
D 1.00 = US$1.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNT     -   National Bank of Tanisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CRGR    -   Research Center of the Rural Construction Department
(Centre de Recherche du Genie Rural)
CRDA    -   Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Regional du Developpement Agricole)
DGPC    -   Central Highway Department of the Ministry of Equipment
(Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees)
DPC     -   Highway Department of the Ministry of Equipment
-   (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees)
DERV    -   Training, Research and Extension Directorate
(Direction de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et de la
Vulgarisation)
DEGTH   -   Directorate for Hydraulic Study and Major Works
(Direction des Etudes et Grands Travaux Hydrauliques)
FOSDA   -   Agricultural Development Fund
(Fonds Special de Developpement Agricole)
INRAT   -   National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de Recherche Agricole Tunisienne)
OC      -   Cereal Distribution and Marketing Agency
(Office des Cer4ales)
OEP     -   National Livestock and Range Agency
(Office de l'Elevage et des Paturages)
OH      -   Vegetable Oil Agency
(Office des Huiles)
ODTC    -   Central Tunisia Development Agency
(Office de Developpement de la Tunisie Centrale)
OMIVAK  -   Kairouan Irrigation Development Agency
(Office de Mise en Valeur de Kairouan)
OMVVM   -   Medjerda Valley Development Agency
(Office de Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda)
STIL    -   Tunisian Company for Milk Industry
(Societe Tunisienne de l'Industrie Laitiere)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     Introduction                                                         1
II.    The Agricultural Sector Context                                      1
A.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy                              I
B.  Agricultural Performance and Resource Allocations                2
C.  Sector Issues Relevant to the Central Tunisia
Irrigation Project                                              4
D.  Bank Involvement in the Sector                                   6
.III.   The Project Area                                                     8
A.  Location, Climate, and Land Resources                            8
B.  Water Resources                                                  8
C.  Population Revenue, Employment .and Social Organization         10
D.  Land Use and Livestock                                          10
E.  Agricultural Support Services                                   11
F.  Infrastructure                                                  13
G.  Irrigation in Central Tunisia                                   14
H.. Constraints to the Full Development of Existing
Irrigation Schemes                                            16
IV.    The Project                                                         17
A.  Project Concept and Objectives                                  17
B.  Summary Description of Project Components                       19
C.  Detailed Features of Project Components                         20
D.  Status of Engineering and Implementation Schedule               23
E.  Project Costs                                                   23
F.  Financing                                                       25
G.  Procurement                                                     25
H.  Disbursements                                                   27
This Report is-based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June 1982
composed of Messrs. N. Imboden (mission leader), C. Gois (Irrigation
Engineer), F. Reeb (Agriculturalist), P. Long (Highways Engineer),
Ms. W. Stickel (Economist), and Messrs. H. Attia (consultant), and F. Portieri
(credit consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.     Project Implementation                                               28
A.  Project Management                                               28
B.  Project Implementation Strategy                                  29
C.  Execution of Project Works                                       32
D.  Agricultural Support Services                                    33
E.  Monitoring, Evaluation, Accounts, and Audit                      35
VI.    Benefits and Justification                                           37
A.  Production                                                       37
B.  Marketing and Prices                                             39
C.  Beneficiaries and Distribution of Benefits                       40
D.  Cost Recovery                                                    42
E.  Economic Analysis                                                44
VII.   Agreements to be Reached and Recommendations                         49
ANNEXES
Annex 1:       Project Costs - and Disbursements
Table la: Project Component by Time                         51
Table 1:  Project Costs                                     52
Table 2:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement                57
Annex II:       Procurement Procedures                                      58
Annex III:     Execution of Works and Supply of Equipment                   59
Annex IV:       Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File    61
Map
IBRD 16644



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. Introduction
1.01     The proposed Project would help implement a coherent and sustainable
water resources development policy in Central Tunisia and would have the
following objectives: (i) increase agricultural production and farm incomes
through a more intensive use of existing water resources; (ii) improve the
regional distribution of revenues by increasing the productive capacity of a
low income zone; and (iii) create employment opportunities through intensive
agriculture. The Project would achieve its objectives through the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, the construction of new small
scale irrigation schemes, the rehabilitation of private wells, the
strengthening of the Irrigation Development Authorities' (Offices) support
services, and the organization of farmers into water users' associations. The
Project was identified in the autumn of 1980 by a World Bank Identification
Mission as a contribution to the Government's Sixth Plan objectives to
decrease unemployment and regional imbalances through productive investments
in neglected areas of Tunisia and was prepared by the Government of Tunisia
with assistance of the FAO/IBRD cooperative program.
II. The Agricultural Sector Context /
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01     Tunisia's 6.5 million population (1981) is growing annually at 2.5%
and is almost half rural. GDP growth rate during the seventies has been high
(about 7% p.a.) combined with a rapid improvement in per capita income, which
reached US$1,420 in 1981, due to the rapid development: of manufacturing
investments, substantial terms of trade gains (oil exports) and sound economic
management. More recently the economy experienced a slowdown, in major part
due to the worsening international environment. In 1981, real GDP growth rate
declined to 5%, as the result of a sharp drop in petroleum and chemicals
output and stagnation in the agricultural and textile sectors. Tunisia's main
economic development issues concern productive employment creation, reduction
of regional development inequalities, and structural adjustments required to
prepare the economy for a smooth transition to the post-hydrocarbon era
(demand management and domestic resource mobilization).
2.02     Despite the relatively good performance of Tunisia's agricultural
sector (para. 2.05), agriculture's share in Tunisia's GDP has declined from
24% in 1960 to 13% in 1981. Similarly, agriculture's share in total
employment has declined from 56% in 1960 to less than 35% in 1981 and its
/1 Issues and performance of the Tunisian agricultural sector are analyzed in
more detail in Report no. 3876-TUN: Agricultural Sector Survey, June 7,
1982.



share of exports of goods from 572; in 1960 to less than 10% in 1981. The
decline in the relative role of agriculture has been caused mainly by the more
rapid growth of other sectors, particularly petroleum, manufacturing and
tourism.
B. Agricultural Performance and Resource Allocations
Distribution of Agricultural Resources
2.03     Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of which 8.4 million
ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. Forests and esparto grass cover
1.2 million ha, and 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. Of the 5 million ha
of cultivable area, 34% are planted in cereals, 35% in fruit trees, 6% in
forage crops, 2% in pulses, 3% in vegetables, 1% in industrial crops, and 21%
is normally left fallow. Tunisia's ratio of irrigable land to arable land is
very low (3.3% in 1977/80 compared with Morocco's 20%), reflecting scarcity of
water resources. Tunisia has an irrigation potential of about 250,000 ha of
which 160,000 ha are presently irrigable and about 120,000 ha effectively
irrigated.  Underutilization of irrigation water is a major issue in the
irrigation subsector.
2.04     Tunisia can be divided into three agroclimatic zones.  The Northern
part (25% of Tunisia's land area) is the most fertile, receiving considerable
rainfall (400-1,000 mm). The Central zone (15% of Tunisia) receives between
200 and 400 mm of rainfall. Rainfed agriculture is limited to fruit tree
plantations (mostly olives), low yield cereals, and range. The Southern part,
60% of Tunisia, is a pre-desert zone receiving less than 200 mm of rainfall
with extensive grazing and some irrigated agriculture. The unequal
distribution of agricultural resources coupled with a concentration of
industrial development in the Northern and Coastal regions has led to an
unbalanced regional development in Tunisia.
Agricultural Performance during the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81)
2.05     Government's objectives in the agricultural sector include the
pursuit of food self-sufficiency (defined as a balanced commodity trade in
agricultural products), increased rural employment and income generation,
foreign exchange earnings and savings, and economic growth. Tunisia's
investment effort in agriculture as a percentage of total investment (14%)
corresponded to agriculture's share of value added (13%). Total investments
in 1977/81 amounted to D 584 million, of which 45% Central Government, 18%
public enterprises, and 37% private sector. Investments were concentrated in
irrigation (44%), farm machinery (17%), and livestock (12%). Overall
performance of the sector has been satisfactory: agricultural value added in
constant 1972 prices increased at a rate of 2.9% per year in constant terms
and average agricultural per capita income increased from US$173 in 1960/62 to
US$380 in 1979, measured in 1979 IJS$. Expanded production resulted mostly
from expansion of irrigated areas and from heavy investments in livestock and
fruit trees.
2.06     The Government's objectives in employment and food self-sufficiency
have not been attained: the impact of employment generating investments such
as irrigation, livestock, and fru:it trees was off-set by employment replacing



- 3 -
investments in farm mechanization. The agricultural trade balance has
worsened and the ratio of food imports to exports was 2.7 in 1981 compared to
2.2 in 1972, due to relative stagnation of exports, a rapid growth of imports,
especially cereals, and a deterioration in the terms of trade of agricultural
goods. Tunisia's rapid per capita income growth (5.5% p.a. between 1970 and
1980) combined with rapid population growth (2.5% p.a.) and the shift of
tastes to higher value crops created a growth of demand in food, diverting
exports to local consumption and increasing imports.
The Proposed Five-Year Development Plan (1982-86)
2.07     The basic issues to be addressed in the coming years have not chdnged
though the urgency of resolving key issues such as employment, and regional
income distortions, as well as increased efficiency of investments has become
greater due to a projected decline in the rate of economic growth and the
necessity to adjust the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation of lower
investments. The Government attempts to achieve this adjustment through (i)
shifting its investment strategy from large, highly capital intensive projects
mostly in petroleum, mining and water resources to the promotion of employment
opportunities in small and medium scale enterprises in agriculture,
manufacturing, housing construction and other sectors; (ii) the creation of an
appropriate policy environment for removing credit constraints for small
enterprises and farmers, and by introducing realistic prices in particular
concerning agricultural products; and (iii) export promotion by shifting away
from overly protected and often highly capital intensive production for the
domestic market towards more labor intensive exports.
2.08     The redistribution of investments in the proposed Five-Year Plan
takes into account the proposed adjustments: (i) allocation of total
investments in agriculture increases from 14% (1977-81) to 19% (1982-86), as
agriculture has a relatively low capital intensity; and (ii) within
agriculture, high capital intensive subsectors such as irrigation and farm
machinery had their part in the investment budget cut from 43.6 and 17.3 in
1977-81 to 38.2% and 11.4% respectively in the new Plan. The part of labor
intensive subsectors such as livestock and fruit tree plantations has
increased from 12% and 8.5% respectively to 15.4% and 17.3% of total planned
investments. This proposed resetting of priorities is crucially dependent on
the absorptive capacity for projects in the more labor intensive sectors and
subsectors, in particular as the majority of such investments will take the
form of small and medium size projects and as 53% of the planned total is
still to be identified in terms of precise projects. The Plan's investment
targets can only be achieved if potential absorptive capacity bottlenecks,
both in the technical sense as well as with regard to the more general policy
framework can be overcome. The recently approved Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2197-TUN) would facilitate the preparation of high priority projects and
lay the ground work for policy reforms.
2.09     The proposed Project would contribute to the Government's effort (i)
to reallocate investments within agriculture from large scale water resources
development to small scale irrigation; (ii) to increase efficiency of
Government investments by improving the management and utilization of existing
water resources; and (iii) to improve regional income distribution by
investing in a relatively neglected area of Tunisia.



- 4 -
C. Sector Issues Relevant to the Central Tunisia Irrigation Project
Irrigation Sector
2.10     Irrigation has contributed significantly to rapid growth of Tunisian
agriculture. However, there are important constraints to the full
exploitation of existing irrigation systems. Water provided in the
large-scale irrigation perimeters is under-utilized. Causes are poor
management of the public irrigation perimeters, the unwillingness of some
farmers to use irrigation water fully because of land ownership disputes,
absenteeism, and frequent problems with irrigation equipment and water
availability. The Irrigation Offices 11 while efficient in the construction
of irrigation schemes have been less so in their management. Their budgets
often do not allow them to carry out proper operation and maintenance. Also
contributing to poor operation and maintenance is the diversion of their
limited staff resources to other activities, such as the distribution of
credit, farm inputs, crop marketing, research and extension.
2.11     The agricultural development of existing irrigation perimeters is of
the highest priority. The most important actions to be taken are (i) to
introduce improved management systems for the public irrigation perimeters;
(ii) to improve maintenance programs; (iii) to apply existing land reform
legislation; (iv) to increase water charges to more nearly cover operation and
maintenance costs; (v) to reduce the activities of the Irrigation Offices by
involving the farmers and the private sector in the management of the
irrigation schemes and in the provision of agricultural support services; and
(vi) to extend agricultural support services to private shallow wells, which
hitherto have been neglected. The proposed Project would assist the
Government in implementing these actions.
Prices and Subsidies.
2.12     In an effort to provide food at low cost to urban groups most
agricultural prices are fixed by Government from the farm-gate to retail
levels. To compensate producers, farm inputs are subsidized. In many cases
farm-gate prices have been fixed artificially low (compared to world prices),
discouraging production of food despite input subsidies. This has occurred
for cereals, some industrial crops, olives, and wine grapes. Farm input
subsidies benefit only a minority of farmers and have generally amounted to
only a small percentage of farm input costs. The exceptions are irrigated
crops (most fruit and vegetables), which are indirectly subsidized through
artificially low input costs, particularly for irrigation water, while output
prices are not effectively fixed. Subsidies tend to be provided for the most
modern inputs (pure-bred cows rather than cross-bred, feed concentrate rather
than other types of livestock feed, irrigation water, fertilizer, pesticides,
etc). While this encourages use of these inputs it also causes some waste and
excessive use of certain inputs by those farmers fortunate enough to obtain
/1 Autonomous regional Government agencies responsible for managing
irrigation infrastructure.



the subsidies. The Government recognizes the resource allocation and income
distribution effects of its present pricing and subsidy policies and is moving
towards a pricing system that more closely reflects the real cost and benefits
of the inputs and outputs to the economy. Some agricultural producer prices
(milk and c-reals) have increased more rapidly than average price inflation
and some subsidies such as subsidies on livestock feed have recently been
drastically reduced. The Government is also following a policy of gradually
increasing water charges until they reflect more closely the real cost of
water (para. 6.20). The proposed Project would contribute to the Government's
price and input subsidy policy by substantially increasing water charges and
by assuring that input supplies and machinery services are provided
efficiently and at cost to the farmers.
Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply
2.13     In Tunisia, public marketing and input supply enterprises exist for
cereals, pulses, olives, wine, meat, fertilizer, seed, and farm machinery.
Several Government development authorities (Offices) participate in the
collection of milk, fruit, and vegetables. All these institutions require
improvements in their efficiency. They are slow to respond to market signals
and to introduce cost-cutting efficiencies or consumer-satisfying
innovations. Farm inputs are usually not available in the quantities required
at the time required. Private marketing and input supplies are not permitted
to legally compete with public enterprises for certain commodities (cereals,
olive oil, high yield cereals, and fertilizers). For most other commodities,
private marketing and input supply enterprises are closely regulated, and
receive no technical assistance, nor credit. The exception to these problems
are fruit and vegetables: fruit and vegetables are distributed internally
through a well-established and competitive private market and are exported
through highly developed profitable enterprises which are not submitted to
significant Government control.
2.14     The proposed Project would improve the marketing of inputs and
agricultural products through investments in marketing infrastructure,
assistance to cooperatives to organize farm input supplies and marketing, the
promotion of contracts between growers and processors and the improvement of
the accounting and pricing system of the Offices' public input services.
Land Tenure
2.15     Tunisia's land tenure system constrains the development of
agriculture. Land distribution is highly skewed. Most farms are small (68%
have less than 10 ha), and fragmented (70% have 2 or more separated parcels).
Much of the farm land is owned by absentee landlords and cooperatives both of
which often exploit the land poorly. There are large tracts of collectively
owned land which are poorly managed, overgrazed by livestock, and on which
topsoil is eroding as a result. Few farmers have land titles. There is no
legal protection for tenant farmers which discourages them from investing in
the land. Reform has been discussed for many years, but action has been slow
and generally confined to the public irrigation perimeters where land
consolidation has begun. The proposed Project would encourage land
consolidation in existing irrigation perimeters, and would implement land
reform regulations on new irrigation schemes before the start of irrigation.



-6-
Credit
2.16     Agricultural credit is provided primarily (80%) by the mostly
Government-owned National Bank of Tunisia (BNT). Financing for agricultural
credit is provided from BNT's own resources, rediscount facilities of the
Central Bank, World Bank loans, Government funds, and bilateral sources. The
Offices also provide short-term in-kind credit in irrigation perimeters (para.
3.19). Major credit issues include: low loan recovery; lack of agricultural
staff at BNT; lack of land titles for most farms, preventing them from
obtaining long-term credit; centralization of loan decisions, resulting in an
excessively long approval process; lending norms for loans financed by
Government funds which do not adequately reflect either the costs of
investments and inputs or the ability of farmers to contribute equity;
interest rates lower than inflation (current BNT interest rates are 6% for
small farmers and cooperatives and 7% for commercial farmers while inflation
was about 9% in 1981 and is projected at 10% for 1982, 9% for 1983 and 8%
thereafter), and the small number of farmers, especially small-scale farmers,
receiving credit. The Third Agricultural Credit Project is addressing
priority credit problems (para. 2.19). In addition legislative action
simplifying procedures for obtaining land titles has resulted in improvements
in the provision of agricultural credit. The Government is planning to
establish a specialized agricultural lending institution, but its precise role
and effect on current institutional arrangements is yet to be defined.
Extension and Research
2.17     Government's agricultural extension and research services do not
function well. Numerous institutions have introduced autonomous or
semi-autonomous extension systems for individual crops or regions.  Some
profitable new farm technologies have been introduced. However, most
extension activities lack appropriate extension messages, provide
contradictory advice to farmers, have no rigourous management systems, and
have therefore little impact. In addition, extension agents tend not to be
trained in communication.  Agricultural research has introduced some important
new technologies. However, it lacks clear priorities, staff, and is not
sufficiently directed to provide solutions to practical problems. Research is
too centralized and has little contact with extension services, thus lacking
farmers' feedback on the application of research results. A master plan is
being prepared as part of the Bank financed Technical Assistance Project to
address these issues.
2.18     The proposed Project would strengthen extension and research
capabilities in Central Tunisia. Its research and extension activities would
implement the principles of research and extension to be elaborated in the
proposed Bank financed Master Plan.
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.19     Bank Group lending for <agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and to
date, twelve projects have been approved for a total of US$256.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include four irrigation projects: the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project in the Lower Medjerda and Nebhana areas (Loan 1068),
the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan 1431), the Southern Irrigation



Project (Loan 1796), and the Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project
(Loan 2157), which was approved in May 1982; two Fisheries Projects (Credit
270, and Loan 1746), a Cooperative Farm Project (Loan 484/Credit 99), three
Agricultural Credit Projects (Loan 779/Credit 263, Loan 1340, and Loan 1885),
a Rural Development Project for the Northwest Region (Loan 1997), and a Grain
Distribution and Storage Project (Loan 2052). The Bank is also supporting
infrastructure and on-farm investments through two Rural Roads Projects (Loans
1601 and 2108).
2.20     Performance under these projects has been mixed, reflecting the
institutional constraints in the sector. Implementation of the irrigation
projects has been the most satisfactory; performance of the Irrigation Offices
in the execution of construction works has been satisfactory and the Offices
have demonstrated their ability to implement project works efficiently.
On-farm development and the implementation of efficient farm support services
have been slower to materialize, partly due to the priority given to
construction works, and the non-involvement of farmers in the decisions
concerning water distribution and operation of the systems. The first Rural
Roads Project is progressing on schedule; the second is just getting
underway. On the other hand, the First Fisheries Project was completed at the
end of 1979 with considerable delays and low loan recoveries for boats. These
problems were addressed under the Second Fisheries Project after agreement was
reached on a strategy for improving recoveries, but performance in this area
is still below expectations. The Cooperative Farm Project, which was designed
to develop production cooperatives as part of a 10-year national program of
agrarian reform, was delayed by technical, managerial and financial problems,
and then, following the Government's abandonment of production cooperatives,
was revised in 1970 and an amount of US$8.8 million was cancelled. The PPAR
(No. 968 of January 8, 1976) indicated that at completion in 1973, most of the
project objectives, namely improved productivity, production, worker incomes
and institutional viability, were attained. However, the objective to
eliminate subsistence farming, was not achieved. The First Agricultural
Credit Project financed BNT lending for farm machinery, date palm plantations
and dairy development and processing, but was not fully disbursed until 34
months after the original closing date because Bank Group funds were onlent at
a higher interest rate than Government funds. The PPAR (No. 2497 of May 11,
1979) indicates that while the project achieved a good rate of return,
mechanization did not yield the benefits expected, and dairy processing
suffered major cost overruns. The interest rate problem was considered in the
design of subsequent credit projects, which call for uniformity of lending
terms for credit regardless of the financing source, but progress on this
issue is below expectations. Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project,
less attractive terms (higher interest rate and no investment subsidies) on
BNT's subloans to commercial farmers in comparison with similar subloans
extended with Government funds, and the lack of decentralization of BNT's
subloan approval process caused disbursements to be slower than anticipated.
The project is now nearly fully disbursed and will be closed on December 31,
1982, two years after the initial closing date. The Third Agricultural Credit
Project, whose loan became effective in June 1981 is addressing priority
credit problems: beside uniformity in lending terms regardless of the source
of financing it requires BNT to increase agricultural staff, establish a staff
training program, decentralize appraisal and approvals of small subloans to
branch offices, and undertake annual reviews of the adequacy of its



- 8 -
agricultural interest rates compared to price inflation and make adequate
proposals for their modification as necessary. Progress so far has been slow,
although a decision has been made recently on decentralization of BNT's
operations. Lessons from the above projects have been considered in the
design of the proposed Project.
III. The Project Area
A. Location, Climate, and Land Resources
3.01     Central Tunisia consists of the three Governorates of Kasserine,
Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid, and five districts of the Governorates of Siliana
and Gafsa. It corresponds to an agro-climatological zone delimited in the
North by the Saharan Atlas Ridge (which constitutes a climatological border)
and in the South by the mountains of Gafsa. In the West, Central Tunisia
borders on Algeria and in the East on the Sahel of Sousse and Sfax. Central
Tunisia occupies 14% of the country's total land area and has an estimated
population of 1.1 million (1980) or 16% of Tunisia's total population.
3.02     The Project area covers all of Central Tunisia with the exception of
the Governorate of Sidi Bouzid!l involving some 18,000 km2 or 11% of
Tunisia's total land area.  The Project area can be divided into three zones:
(i) the Piedmont and the Southern Plains of the Atlas ridge (the region of
Thala); (ii) the high altitude steppes (600-1,000 m) of the North West
(Kasserine, Feriana); and (iii) the low altitude steppes (100-500 m) in the
East and South which correspond to the plains of Kairouan. Central Tunisa has
a semi-arid to arid climate. The high altitude steppes and the piedmont have
a continental climate with hot dry summers (39 CO) and cold winters with
frost-danger from January to March. The low steppes have a more maritime
climate with mean maxima of 330C in the summer and only occasional frost
risks. Rainfall is irregular and ranges from 400 mm in the Northwest to
150 mm in the districts of Gafsa. Relatively cold winters, dry and hot
summers, low and large variations in rainfall (in Kasserine annual rainfall
varies between 147 and 615 mm for a mean annual rainfall of 324 mm) severely
constrain development of rainfed agriculture.
3.03     The soils in Central Tunisia are very varied but are largely brown,
of medium texture with little organic matter. They require special
precautions to avoid soil erosion and water losses, but assure good drainage.
Central Tunisia's natural vegetation, consists of alfa in the West, side brush
and armoise in the plains. Land clearing has, to a large extent, destroyed
perennial vegetative cover and replaced it by annual crops.
B. Water Resources
3.04     Surface Water.  The hydrographic network of the Central Tunisia
comprises three main catchments, Oued Zeroud, Sidi Aid and Leben, covering
some 12,000 km2. The plain of Kairouan is the flood zone of the Oueds
Zeroud and Merguellil. These oueds have a total annual run-off of 200-400 MCM
depending on the year. They have a torrential regime with sudden and large
floods followed by long periods of no flow, leading to strong erosion and a
/1 Investments in Sidi Bouzid would be financed under an IFAD financed
Project under preparation.



- 9 -
heavy sediment load. Only a few of the oueds have a permanent flow and are
used for irrigation (Kasserine, Feriana, Sbiba).
3.05          With this hydrological pattern, the control of surface water is
difficult.  The Master Pla/l of the Water Resources of Central Tunisia
calls for the construction of 11 dams, of which two are already constructed
(Nebhana and Sidi Saad) and one is under study (El Maouareb). The objective
of these dams is flood control and the release of storage water for
irrigation, water supply and aquifer recharge. Due to their flood regulation
function, their guaranteed regulated flows are very small compared to the
estimated total annual run off. In addition, the life expectancy of these
dams is short due to the heavy sediment load. For these reasons, agricultural
development potential on the basis of direct use of surface water is limited
and ground water resources (controlled and recharged) provide much better
prospects.
3.06     Ground Water.  Ground water resources come from two kinds of
aquifers: (i) the phreatic aquifer, at 10-20 m, exploited by shallow wells,
and (ii) the deep aquifer (300-500 m deep) exploited by boreholes yielding
about 50 l/s on average. These two aquifers are generally not separated by an
impervious layer and have to be considered as interconnected from the point of
view of water resources. On the basis of recent studies by the Directorate of
Water and Soil Resources (DRES) the renewable ground water resources of
Central Tunisia amount to about 300 MCM.
3.07     Water Quality.  The salinity of both surface and ground water
increases downstream. About 50% of the water resources have a salt content
above 3 g/l and 80% above 1.5 g/l. Although water from deep aquifers never
exceeds 3.5 g/l, surface and shallow aquifer water may go up to 5 g/l. Water
quality in the aquifers exploited by the Project is good, always less than 1.5
g/l and often under 1 g/l.
3.08     Water Balance.  Ground water use in Central Tunisia is estimated at
about 215 MCM, of which agriculture accounts for 175 MCM and is lower than the
exploitable potential of about 300 MCM. However, certain basins, in
particular the Gammouda plain in Sidi Bouzid and to a lesser extent the plain
of Kairouan, already show signs of overexploitation. Projections of water
consumption for the year 2000 show that potential use could exceed the
available renewable resources. There is a need for continuous monitoring of
the ground water exploitation with particular attention to the water table and
piezometric levels.
3.09     For each basin in the project area, an estimate of the water
resources, present use, incremental water consumption due to the Project,
other uses to the horizon year 2000 and the balance has been made (Annex V of
Project File). The project would develop new water resources only where the
long term water availability is assured. The situation of the Kairouan plain
basin, presently fully exploited, would greatly improve with annual releases
for aquifer recharge from the recently constructed Sidi Saad dam. In the
Governorate of Kasserine two basins show potential water deficits, in
/1 Ministry of Agriculture: "Plan Directeur de l'Utilisation des Eaux du
Centre de la Tunisie" DEGTM; February 1977.



- 10 -
particular the Sbeitla aquifers. No new perimeters would be constructed there
and rehabilitation would be limited to increased water use efficiency without
increasing water off-take.
C. Population Revenue, Employment and Social Organization
3.10     The population of Central Tunisia (excluding Sidi Bouzid) is
estimated at 770,000 (1981). Population density is high (43 people per km2)
compared to the resources; 85% of the population lives in rural areas and 80%
in dispersed settlements. Poor land and water resources, high unemployment
and a low level of public services, due to the dispersed nature of
settlements, result in low standards of living for the population. The
agricultural resources of the region do not provide sufficient income to
farmers. Nearly all farmers have outside farm income either from jobs within
the region or from temporary out-rnigration. Outside farm income accounts for
49% of total average income of rainfed farmers, 38% for farmers on public
irrigaton schemes and 37% for farmers owning a private well.
3.11     Traditionally Central Tunisia has had a nomadic population, which
integrated the use of the feed resources of Central Tunisia with those of the
North through migration.  Over the last 30 years the nomadic way of life has
given way to sedentary exploitation. Nomadic herders have thus been
transformed into sedentary farmers within one generation. Farming techniques,
in particular water management, are therefore poorly mastered and explain the
low yields obtained on irrigated land.
D. Land Use and Livestock
Land Use
3.12     The agricultural land use in the area in which the Project is
situated is as follows:
Gafsa   Siliana          Total
Kairouan   Kasserine    North    South                    %
---------------('000 ha)---------------
Rainfed crops            255           180         50        49          534    63
Fruit trees               163          54          43        11          271    32
Irrigated crops           32             7          4         2           45     5
Total Agricultural
Land                   450          241          97        62          850   100
The agricultural area of about 850,000 ha is mainly used for rainfed cereals
for home consumption. The area cultivated with cereals has increased
substantially over the last 50 years (from 50,000 to 400,000 ha for the three
governorates) due to the encroachment of cereal cultivation on rangeland.
Cereals are thus grown on land not normally suited for annual crops resulting
in very low yields (3-400 kg/ha). Fruit tree plantations, practically non
existent some 20 years ago, now cover 32% of the agricultural area and consist
of olives, apricots, almonds and pistachios. Fruit production fluctuates
widely with yearly rainfall variations. The irrigated area amounts to 5% of



- ii -
agricultural lands and is used mainly for vegetables and fruit trees (para
3.34). Grazing areas, mostly collective lands, originally covered the large
majority of Central Tunisia, but today accounts for only 35% of the total area
(620,000 ha).
3.13     Livestock.  The reduction of rangeland due to cultivation has not led
to a proportionate decline in the livestock population. Central Tunisia
accounts for 32% of sheep, 22% of goats and 15% of cattle in Tunisia. Stock
rates exceed fodder availability leading to poor animal performance, large
fluctuations in herd sizes, overgrazing of the remaining range and large
imports of fodder and feed from outside the region. Development of the
livestock subsector would require the establishment of a herd and range
management system that takes fully into account the breeding vocation of the
area and the necessity to integrate rainfed breeding activities with fattening
actions on the irrigated lands. The proposed Project would test such a
livestock development model on a pilot basis and would improve the feed
balance in the region by encouraging fodder production on irrigated lands.
E. Agricultural Support Services
The Regional Agricultural Development Commissariats (CRDA)
3.14     The CRDA represents the different services of the Ministry of
Agriculture at the Provincial level. It is responsible for studies,
statistics, credit evaluation and the coordination of agricultural development
activities. The rigidity of its administrative structure does not permit the
CRDA to implement projects and investments. For this reason the Government
relies more and more on public enterprises and Offices to implement
development projects and to provide farmers' services, thus liberating the
CRDA of operational tasks in favor of its planning and coordination functions.
The Offices
3.15     There are two development Offices (semi autonomous development
agencies) in the Project zone: the Central Tunisia Development Agency (ODTC),
headquarted in Kasserine and the Irrigation Office of Kairouan (OMIVAK) in
Kairouan. The Offices have full authority to implement development projects
within their jurisdiction. Their financial resources consist of revenues from
services (water charges, input supply, marketing services) and of budgetary
allocations. Although the law allows the Offices to be financially
independent, they are heavily dependent on budgetary financing.
3.16     ODTC was created in 1979 to promote integrated rural development in
Central Tunisia and is responsible for the planning, preparation and
implementation of development works in the Governorates of Kasserine, Sidi
Bouzid and in five districts of Gafsa and Siliana (para. 3.01). Its main
responsibility is to encourage rational land use, to adapt land tenure
structures to development requirements and to implement socioeconomic
development works. ODTC is responsible for the development of water
resources, the management of existing and new irrigation schemes and for
agricultural support services. It is managed by a Director General under the
guidance of a Board of Directors composed of representatives of the various
Ministries concerned, the regional political authorities and farmers'



- 12 -
representatives. ODTC has a central directorate in Kasserine, responsible for
overall planning and coordination, and regional directorates at the
Governorate level.
3.17     OMIVAK's territorial jurisdiction is limited to the Governorate of
Kairouan and to the irrigation subsector. OMIVAK is responsible for
agricultural support services in the irrigation subsector and for the
management of the PPI. Up to now, the recently created Office (1980) did not
have the manpower and infrastructure necessary to fully execute its mandate
and therefore concentrated its efforts on the public irrigation schemes.
OMIVAK's management structure is similar to ODTC's: It has a Director General
in Kairouan and five territorial subdivisions. The Project would provide this
newly created Office with the necessary means and infrastructure to execute
its mandate (para. 4.14).
Extension and Research
3.18     The shortcomings of the present extension and research systems have
been described in para. 2.16. The Project area is understaffed and lacks
infrastructure. Extension, in particular for private tubewell farmers, is
practically non-existent, as services are concentrated on the public
irrigation schemes and as input distribution and machinery customer services
receive priority. For fruit trees, research has identified high yield
varieties and the research center of the Rural Construction Directorate of the
Ministry of Agriculture (C.R.G.R.) has made substantial progress in knowledge
of the effect of salinity on soils and yields. However, there exists no
regional research center in Central Tunisia that investigates problems of
irrigated crops and that defines extension messages for extension workers.
The Project would address this issue (paras. 5.16-5.17).
Input Distribution
3.19     High yield cereal seeds are distributed by the Cereals Office, fodder
seeds and feed by the Livestock Office and inputs for the irrigation sector by
the two Offices ODTC and OMIVAK. The difficulties of input distribution as
described in the sector analysis (para. 2.12) apply also to this region. The
difficulties are particularly serious in Central Tunisia due to inadequate
access roads and the lack of distribution centers. The Project would provide
the necessary infrastructure and encourage cooperatives and the private sector
to enter input distribution (para. 5.19).
3.20     Machinery Services.  The majority of machinery services are provided
by the private sector. SONAM/L is not represented in Kasserine and provides
limited services in Kairouan (15 tractors). The Offices have small mechanized
units which provide some services. Availability of tractor services is not a
problem in the Project area. However, land preparation is often done badly
and improved seed bed preparation would increase yields substantially. The
Project would introduce improved land preparation techniques and adapted
/1 Office de Developpement de la Tunisie Centrale.
/2 Socifte Nationale de Machinisme Agricole; a parastatal company responsible
to provide tractor services to farmers.



- 13 -
machinery through the Offices so as to demonstrate to the farmers the benefits
of improved land preparation (para. 5.21).
Credit
3.21     Credit to farmers in the Project zone is provided by BNT (for
investment and short-term) and the two Offices for short-term, in-kind
credit. The BNT credit conditions are those discussed in para. 2.15. The
Offices' short-term in-kind loans are interest-free, requiring the farmers to
contribute not less than 20% of input values and to repay their loans at the
end of the cropping season (6 months). Loan recovery has been unsatisfactory
in the past (26% on average for 1971-77) but is improving (59% in 1980), and
measures are presently under implementation to improve recovery. The in-kind
credit system would be reformed under the Project (para. 5.19).
Marketing
3.22     Except for small quantities of off-season tomatoes early apricots and
artichokes which are exported, vegetables and fruits are sold for local
consumption through wholesale markets in Kairouan, Sfax, Gabes and Tunis. A
substantial amount of apricots and hot peppers, and to a lesser extent
tomatoes, are sold to local processing plants, which however cover the larger
part of their product requirements from outside the region due to insufficient
regional supplies.
3.23     The larger farmers sell their produce directly to the processing
plants or on the Kairouan, Sfax or Tunis wholesale markets through sales
agents. Smaller farmers sell either on the village markets, through private
transporters or to independent dealers at the farm level. Apricots and apples
are often sold on the tree. Due to the large number of small pickup trucks in
the region, transport for produce is available at competitive prices.
Information on prices in various wholesale markets is readily available in the
region and farmers with a large enough production do take advantage of price
differentials in various markets. Smaller farmers who do not produce enough
to hire transportation are dependent on prices received from sales agents.
Prices of fruits and vegetables fluctuate and during peak production small
farmers often have difficulties obtaining remunerative prices. The Project
would address this problem through the creation of collection centers and
through smoothing out the peaks and troughs of production in a given crop
through improved information on marketing prospects (para. 5.20).
3.24     The large part of the milk produced in the Project area is sold by
the farmers to private markets and milk collectors. The rest is sold to a
private processing plant in Kairouan. The lack of an organized milk
collection system has prevented farmers from increasing milk production
despite a demand in consumption centers such as Kairouan. The Project would
address this issue (para. 5.22).
F. Infrastructure
3.25     The main road network in both Kairouan and Kasserine is paved and in
good condition. Other roads generally have minimal improvements and most are
unimproved tracks. The highest priority tracks are being improved, generally



- 14 -
to good gravel, all-weather standards under the Bank's Third and Fifth Highway
Projects. The tracks serving the Project's farmers are of lower class, and
the existing maintenance generally consists of a single passage of a grader.
Most of the tracks are difficult to use or impassable during the rainy
season. They would be improved under the Project.
3.26     Most villages in the Project zone have been electrified and have some
improved drinking water supply, often related to the irrigation schemes.
Nearly all PPIs and some private wells are or are therefore being electrified.
G. Irrigation in Central Tunisia
3.27     About 44,000 ha are irrigated in the Project zone.  Irrigation water
resources development includes (i) Government developed public schemes called
PPI (Perimetre Public Irrigue) where irrigation water is drawn from deep
aquifers.  There are some 51 PPIs in the Project area irrigating a total of
12,000 ha; (ii) private irrigation schemes known as PS (puits de surface or
shallow wells) using phreatic water, numbering about 5,900 wells capable of
irrigating some 24,000 ha; and (iii) publicly owned irrigation schemes or
terres domaniales (8,000 ha) which are part of the public estate. The latter
are relatively well managed public enterprises and are therefore not included
in the proposed Project.
The Public Irrigation Schemes (PPIs)
3.28     Most PPIs were developed in the sixties under the production
cooperative system but since then, the irrigable land covered by them has been
redistributed among previous land owners and agrarian reform beneficiaries.
Overall management of the PPI, i.e. maintenance and operation of the
irrigation infrastructure, collection of water charges and provision of
services such as extension and input supply, is the responsibility of the
public sector (paras 3.15-3.17).
3.29     The irrigation equipment: of the PPI consists of one or several
boreholes at an average depth of 320 m with a yield of 20-60 l/s, a pumping
station and a water distribution network with an average length of 40 m per
irrigable ha. The large majority of these schemes irrigate an average of
about 100 ha with a few schemes irrigating 300 to 1,700 ha.
3.30     Land Tenure.  Land distribution in the PPI of the Project zone is
fairly even, with the vast majority of landowners (92% in Kairouan, 98% in
Kasserine) owning 5 ha or less. Holdings of less than 1 ha are common in
Kairouan (30% of farmers) and in Kasserine 38% of farmers own less than 2 Ha.
A small minority with large holdings account for a disproportionate share of
land: in Kairouan 3% of farmers own 18% of the land and in Kasserine the top
2% own 10% of the land. However the largest group of farmers are medium-sized
and own the majority of land. In Kairouan 62% of farmers have holdings from
1-5 ha accounting for 59% of land and in Kasserine 60% of farmers have from
2-5 ha accounting for 68% of the land.
3.31     Land tenure conditions vary widely in the Project area.
Sharecropping is common in Kairouan, but rare in Kasserine where virtually
none of the land or farmers are under sharecropping arrangements.



- 15 -
Sharecropping appears to be associated with large holdings: out of 15
perimeters in the Kairouan project area with land holdings exceeding 9 ha, ten
had sharecropping practiced on over 25% of the land.
3.32     Fragmentation of holdings is a constraint to efficient farming and
water distribution. A program of land consolidation including the issuing of
ownership certificates or land titles began in 1980 under an agency created
for land reform. Progress in issuing land titles is uneven in the two project
zones. In Kairouan, an estimated 70% of land owners have received full title
to their land, while in Kasserine/Gafsa, owners with either a full fledg2d
land title or ownership certificates are the exception. While land titles or
ownership' certificates are required for medium- and long-term credit, the
lack of ownership documentation is no longer a serious problem for farmers, as
ownership certificates can be readily issued on request.
3.33     Land ownership in PPIs is regulated by the Land Reform Law of 1963,
as amended in 1971, and is based on four principles: (i) the obligation of
farmers in each PPI to make a contribution toward the public sector investment
based on the capital gain on the newly irrigable lands; (ii) limits on
allowable sizes of land holdings within the PPI to encourage the development
of viable farm units; (iii) consolidation of landholdings; and (iv) farmer's
obligation to irrigate at least two-thirds of his surface area within two
years of the start of irrigation. However, application of the agrarian reform
legislation is not automatic for every irrigated perimeter. It is not applied
in small irrigation perimeters, or where fragmentation or land distribution
are not a problem. In the Governorate of Kairouan, for example, only 4 out of
37 perimeters have been subject to the agrarian reform legislation. The
proposed Project would encourage land consolidation on existing perimeters and
would assure that the land reform would be implemented on new irrigation
schemes (para. 5.13).
3.34     Land Use and Cropping Pattern.  At present, about 44% of the total
irrigated area under the Project is under fruit trees; 27% under vegetables
and 14% each under cereals and forage production amounting to an irrigation
intensity of about 100%. Farmers in general follow a triannual rotation
consisting of vegetables/forage/cereals. Fruit tree plantations are widely
spaced and 28% of them are intercropped with vegetables. There is a slow, but
steady evolution of the cropping pattern away from summer vegetables to
increased forage and fruit production: (i) a lack of water during the summer
favors fruit tree plantations, which require less water; and (ii) marketing
risks of perishable vegetables and the severe feed shortage in the region have
motivated farmers to switch to forage crops.
3.35     Water Use and Yields.  Water availability is restricted by the low
capacity of the tubewells and pumps, their age, and frequent interruptions in
irrigation due to mechanical breakdowns in the system. Pumping hours are
limited to some 1,500 hours/year resulting in a very low water yield (less
than 2000 m3/ha) thus reducing the area which effectively can be irrigated
to 30-40% of the equipped land. The Project, by increasing water use in the
winter and by reducing water losses and interruptions would increase cropping
intensity. Yields vary substantially from one irrigation scheme to another
according to water availability and application. Yields are however far below
potential. Average yields are 1.3 t/ha for cereals, 12 t/ha for tomatoes, 7



- 16 -
t/ha for peppers and broad beans and 1.5-3 t/ha for olives. Better farmers
grow double the average yields and technology exists to increase production
substantially.
Private Shallow Wells
3.36     The shallow private wells or puits de surface (PS) have been
constructed by private farmers often with the assistance of the Government
(15% subsidy) and more rarely with credit from BNT. There are 6,800 private
wells under OMIVAK and 2,100 under ODTC (excluding Sidi Bouzid). Private well
development is a recent phenomenon, which until lately has been uncontrolled,
leading to overexploitation of certain aquifers (para. 3.08). Private wells
are normally large diameter wells, 12 to 20 m deep and are often not cased.
Only 47% of the shallow wells under ODTC and 73% within Kairouan are equipped
with diesel or electric pumps, the remaining ones are animal powered or used
for drinking water only. They yield an average 3-4 l/s and water is conveyed
by seguias; furrow or basin irrigation is practiced.
3.37     Land and Water Use.  Cropping patterns and rotation in private
irrigation plots are similar to the PPI, with less emphasis on fruit trees and
more forage crops. Water use is very intense and land for irrigation is used
in rotation, farmers alternating irrigated crops with dryland farming. In
general, water management on private irrigation plots is more efficient than
on the PPIs, as farmers have full control over water.  Yields are also
somewhat higher, although production is still confined by the non-availability
of advise and inputs. The Project would assist farmers in the Project zone
(i) to increase the yields of existing wells where feasible; (ii) to increase
water use efficiency; and (iii) to intensify production on the private plots.
H. Constraints to the Full Development of Existing Irrigation Schemes
Public Irrigation Schemes
3.38     Public irrigation schemes in the past have not been efficiently
managed nor intensely cultivated. The reasons for the inefficient use and the
absence of maintenance in the public small scale irrigation schemes are:
(i)    the irrigation schemes, constructed about 20 years ago, were designed
and implemented without any involvement of the local population. The
beneficiaries, at that time mostly semi-nomadic herders, were not
interested in irrigation and often were forced by the Government to
irrigate;
(ii)    the small scale schemes were managed by the Medjerda Office (OMVVM)
in Tunis. The large number of schemes, their small size and the
distance between the Office and the schemes made management of these
schemes expensive, unresponsive and inefficient leading to a lack of
maintenance and increasing breakdowns of long duration;
(iii)   low water charges, which do not cover operation and maintenance
costs, did not provide incentives to farmers to use water efficiently
and did not allow mobilization of the required resources to maintain
the system;



- 1 7 -
(iv)    insufficient water supply in relation to the area equipped, due to
the adoption of a more water intensive cropping pattern than foreseen
at design, and system breakdowns, lead to insecurity of water supply
thus discouraging farmers to invest in more intensive production
t 2hniques; in addition, inadequate criteria to manage water
shortages lead to suboptimal results of irrigation; and
(v)    the non-application of land reform regulations resulted in
inefficient farm sizes and in large absentee landownerships for some
irrigation schemes.
3.39     Some of the above mentioned constraints have been removed.  The
population now is sedentary and has fully understood the benefits of
irrigation as proven by the rapid expansion of private tubewells. The recent
creation of two offices (OMIVAK and ODTC) permits a more efficient and
responsive management of the schemes. Water charges have been increased
substantially over the last few years (para. 6.19). However, these three
developments are insufficient to assure efficient management: the schemes
have sufficiently deteriorated so that without rehabilitation their efficient
management cannot be assured; and farmers have lost confidence in the systems
and are not willing to invest in them. The proposed Project would attempt to
address these remaining issues.
Private Shallow Well Development
3.40     Shallow aquifer water resources' exploitation has had a rapid
development over the last few years through private investments in wells.
Further uncontrolled water resources development is no longer possible as some
aquifers are already overexploited. After this period of rapid development of
the irrigated area and in view of the limitation of the water resources, it is
essential (i) to closely monitor the aquifers and to limit any further
development to the resources available in the various aquifers; (ii) to
introduce improved water management techniques so as to increase the water use
efficiency; and (iii) to intensify production so as to maximize returns to
water which is the limiting factor in the region. The proposed Project would
implement these actions.
IV. The Project
A. Project Concept and Objectives
Project Rationale and Concept
4.01     The growing demand for food products from a rapidly increasing
population, the lack of significant resources outside agriculture and the
level of unemployment likely to accelerate rural-urban migration call for a
rapid development of the agricultural sector in Central Tunisia. With the low
and unpredictable rainfall prevailing in the region, intensification of
rainfed agriculture is risky and limited, and increased output from fruit
trees and fodder shrub plantations would be slow to materialize. Priority
therefore needs to be given to irrigation development.



- 18 -
4.02     In order to capitalize on previous investments and farmers'
experience, priority would be given to the rehabilitation of the physical
infrastructure in a number of selected PPIs offering good prospects for
improvement; those where the major constraint toward increasing agricultural
output appears to be of a social nature (land tenure, absenteeism, lack of
farmers' interest, etc.) would be excluded from the physical rehabilitation
program. A few new PPIs, justif:ied on grounds of the underexploitation of
some of the aquifers, would also be included in the Project.
4.03     Taking into account the rapid multiplication of private wells and
water constraints, Project support for private well development would aim at
effective water use rather than additional exploitation of water.  The
proposed artificial recharge (para. 3.05) of some aquifers through run-off
control presently being tested, may open up new development of the shallow
aquifers in the future.  However, the effects of those measures on the
groundwater are not yet known and close monitoring of the aquifers is required
before new exploitation can be safely undertaken. The Project would set up
such a monitoring system for the Plain of Kairouan (para. 4.12).
4.04     Rehabilitation of the p'hysical infrastructure alone, however, would
not be sufficient to achieve the development aimed for and needs to be
accompanied by strengthening of ODTC and OMIVAK in the fields of extension,
organization of farmers, machinery services for demonstration, marketing,
input supply and adaptive research.
4.05     In view of the importance of sheep-rearing in the regional economy
and the constraints imposed by the existing feed deficit, the Project would
define on a pilot basis an integrated farming-livestock system based on
increased irrigated forage production for sheep intensification, as well as
improved range and herd management.
Project Objectives
4.06     The Project aims at increasing agricultural production, farm incomes
and employment possibilities in Central Tunisia, one of the least developed
areas in Tunisia. These Project goals are fully consistent with the Tunisian
development objectives of reduced regional'income discrepancies and employment
creation. In addition, the Project would implement a coherent and sustainable
water resources policy through the development of grass-root organizations
capable of managing public irrigation schemes and through the support of
private initiative to develop and use efficiently groundwater resources.
4.07     The Project would achieve these overall development objectives
through: (i) the development of the groundwater resources where feasible;
(ii) increased water use efficiency to maximize the benefits from the limited
water resources available by improving water management; (iii) increased
reliability of irrigation water supply through the strengthening of the
Offices' management capabilities and the creation of water users' associations
to better handle operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems; (iv) the
enforcement of water charges whi'ch reflect, as much as possible, the real cost
of water so as to assure water use efficiency and to mobilize financial
resources for the efficient management of the schemes; and (v) an equitable



- 19 -
distribution of access to water so as to assure efficient and equitable use of
the limited water resources of the region.
B. Summary Description of Project Components
4.08     To achieve its overall objectives the Project would implement over a
five-year period the following actions:
(i)    Development of Infrastructure:
-  rehabilitation of 37 PPIs totalling 4,700 ha located in Kairouan (28
PPIs: 3,200 ha), Kasserine (6 PPIs: 1,300 ha), and Gafsa North (3
PPIs: 200 ha) and falling under ODTC and OMIVAK responsibility;
-  creation of 5 new PPIs, 4 in Kasserine (345 ha) and one in Kairouan
(210 ha) totalling 555 ha (equipped);
-  support for improvement of 1,600 existing private wells (PS) in the
form of additional credit for well lining, pumping equipment, pipes,
small reservoirs, etc;
-  rehabilitation of about 130 km of feeder roads.
(ii)    Institutional Development
-  strengthening of the central and regional administration of OMIVAK;
the strengthening of the Offices' repair and maintenance units and
the creation of a shallow well support unit in each office
benefitting a total of 36,000 ha;
-  strengthening of the extension services of the two Offices, including
the establishment of an applied research and extension support center
in Kairouan, pilot mechanization units (2 in Kairouan and one in
Kasserine), and the strengthening of marketing support centers;
(iii)   Support and Pilot Actions:
-  strengthening of animal production support services in the Project;
-  integration of the resources of the rainfed and irrigated subsectors
in two pilot zones to test an integrated rainfed-irrigation livestock
and feed resources development model;
-  promotion of credit and input supplies, in particular for the private
shallow well farmers.
-  strengthening of services to monitor ground water resources.



- 20 -
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
4.09     Rehabilitation of 37 existing PPIs.  Rehabilitation aims at
diminishing water losses by increasing the overall efficiency of the
distribution system from .40 to .60 thus increasing water availability by
35%. The Project would also allow increased pumping, in particular during the
winter season, through replacements of boreholes and pumps, whenever water
resources allow increased exploitation. The various rehabilitation works
would increase the on-farm water availability from about 900 to 3,200 m3/ha.
4.10     Rehabilitation works, which would be implemented over 4 years, would
include: (i) the electrification of 7 pumping stations, the acquisition of 11
electrical pumps, and 2 diesel motors and pumps, and the systematic
installation of water meters; (ii) the financing of 2 boreholes to replace
existing boreholes which have begun to show signs of diminishing yields;
(iii) the construction of 9 reservoirs (250-500 m3) and the rehabilitation
of 17 existing ones; (iv) the rehabilitation of the entire distribution system
including relevelling of 85 km of canals, replacement of 27 km, repair of 10
km, as well as the lining of 49 km. of tertiary canals.  The Project would
repair or reconstruct some 700 hydraulic structures, as well as replace, as
required, the hydromechanical equipment, and (v) on-farm works including land
levelling on 1,700 ha, internal road rehabilitation (150 km) and the
installation of windbreaks (210 kmn). Water losses per hectare vary widely,
requiring a range of improvements; in the majority of perimeters costs are
between D 1,000-2,000/ha.
4.11     Creation of New Irrigation Schemes.  The Project would create, using
aquifers presently underexploited, five new irrigation schemes totalling
555 ha: Henchir Jefna (210 ha), Ain Hdia (80 ha), Mzira I and II (96 ha), and
Feriana (169 ha). Works include well drilling, pumping stations and
equipment, the conveyance and regulation system, a low-pressure piped
irrigation distribution network, as well as on-farm investments (drainage,
land-levelling, windbreaks and internal roads). Ten new wells will be drilled
(six on Henchir Jefna and four on Feriana, while wells have already been
drilled in the others), to a depth of approximately 200 m and with a 25-cm
diameter. These will be equipped with submerged electric pumps. The costs of
these new schemes range from D 1,685/ha to D 3,885/ha.
4.12     Reserve Tubewells and Piezometers.  The Project includes financing
for seven reserve wells totalling 2,800 m which are expected to be needed to
replace aging boreholes over the project period. The number of reserve wells
to be included was determined on the basis of average replacements required
per year in the past and the number of wells approaching the end of their
expected useful life. The Project would also finance 20 additional
piezometers in the plain of Kairouan to assist with the monitoring and
evaluation of the development of the aquifers and the impact of the artificial
recharging of the aquifers through releases from the Sidi Saad dam.
4.13     Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads.  The Project includes the upgrading
to all-weather standards of about 90 km of tracks in Kairouan and about 40 km
in Kasserine. The roads would follow the existing tracks, with the minimum
earthworks required to keep the piavement structure above water level.



- 21 -
Selected material for the running surface would be placed over a 5-meter
width, about 200 mm deep depending on soil type. Costs will average from
D 14,500 to D 20,000 (for N2 - level) and D 24,000 (for N3 - level) per
kilometer depending on road width and nature of required improvements.
4.14     Strengthening of OMIVAK Central Workshop.  The existing staff and
equipment of the OMIVAK central workshop are already insufficient to meet the
present demand. The project would provide funds to compensate for the present
shortages and to guarantee proper services for the new equipment and
irrigation development. The project would provide workshop tools and would
reinforce the existing personnel with 17 additional staff (4 administrative
and 13 technicians).
4.15     Extension Services.  The Project would strengthen the extension
services of OMIVAK and ODTC so as to achieve an average density of about one
extension agent per 100 farmers. This would require the recruitment of 28
extension agents, the construction of 16 offices and 33 houses, as well as the
acquisition of 6 cars and 49 motorcycles. Nine hundred and seventy
demonstration plots would be established at the farm level with 85 pilot
farmers. In addition, the Project would finance local training of extension
agents, study trips abroad for engineers, and an evaluation and monitoring
unit in each of the offices.
4.16     Applied Research and Extension Support Center.  To improve the
technical message of extension agents and to provide farmers access to
regionally tested technological innovations the Project would construct, equip
and staff an applied research support center. The station would be built in
the OMIVAK project zone on irrigated land (20 ha) and would include buildings
(1,200 m2), a nursery, laboratory equipment, irrigation equipment, and would
be staffed by 7 agricultural engineers and 1 technical assistant who would
also serve as subject matter specialists (para. 5.16).
4.17     Mechanization Units.  The Project would finance 3 mechanized farming
units (2 in Kairouan and 1 in Kasserine) totalling 25 tractor units to
introduce appropriate equipment and to demonstrate the benefits of improved
land preparation.
4.18     Input Supply and Credit.  The Project would rationalize the input
supply system of the two Offices, including the in-kind short-term credit
provided by the Offices (para. 5.19). In addition, the Project would assure
through BNT that credit is available for the acquisition of mobile pipes and
reservoirs (590 wells), the replacement of motorpumps (590 wells) and the
rehabilitation of 1,600 wells. Credit financing would also be available for
the purchase of 50 tractors, and 1,000 cross-bred heifers.
4.19     Marketing Support.  The Project would finance the equipment for three
existing collection centers in Kasserine and the construction and equipment of
two new ones in Kairouan. The Project would also strengthen the marketing



- 22 -
support services within OMIVAK and ODTC and would provide support services and
training for the creation of marketing cooperatives.
4.20     Strengthening of the Repair and Maintenance Services.  The Project
would substantially strengthen the Offices' repair and maintenance services
for irrigation schemes. The component would include the mobile equipment
necessary to repair the pumps and breakdowns in the conveyance system, spare
parts and provide for the recruilment of additional staff (4 technicians in
each Office and unskilled labor).
4.21     Shallow Wells Support Units.  The Project would establish a central
PS support unit in each office and 7 mobile teams (4 in Kairouan and 3 in
Kasserine) with the necessary equipment and vehicles to rehabilitate existing
shallow wells (cleaning, deepening, lining). Based on a survey of
rehabilitation requirements, it is expected that these 7 teams would
rehabilitate 1,600 wells (out of a total of 5,900) during the life of the
Project.
4.22     Livestock Support Services.  The Project would participate in the
financing of the VIth Plan's regional investment program for livestock in the
Project zone. Investments would include (i) the construction and equipment of
3 veterinary stations, (ii) the construction of 11 dipping tanks, (iii)
vehicles and equipment for 5 artificial insemination teams, and (iv) the
construction, equipment, vehicles and staffing of two milk collection centers.
4.23     Pilot Scheme.  The Project would finance a pilot scheme for testing
the integration of irrigated agriculture with the rainfed resources. The
scheme would consist of two pilot zones: one in Zafranaa III (5,500) ha and
one in Oued Khetum (3,600 ha) involving about 1,000 farmers with a livestock
herd consisting of about 1,300 cattle and 9,000 sheep. The objective of the
pilot scheme is to define a viable livestock development model for Central
Tunisia, which integrates the management of herds and feed resources of the
rainfed and irrigated subsector, and thus fully exploits the complementarity
of the breeding vocation of the range and the grazing areas managed by the
forestry department with the fattening function of the irrigation subsector.
The component would include range management including the construction of
water points (2), dipping tanks (2), storage sheds (500 m2), offices (2) and
houses (2), the staffing of the units (1 engineer and 2 technical assistants),
and the necessary equipment and transport.
4.24     Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be required for the
organization of farmers, the establishment of a cost accounting system and for
the financial management of the Offices, the pilot range component, marketing,
input supply, cooperative organization, and on-farm water use efficiency. The
Project would benefit from the technical assistance provided by various
USAID-financed projects such as the range project (for the pilot scheme of
integration of rainfed and irrigated agriculture), the small-scale irrigation
project (for on-farm water use efficiency improvements), the Central Tunisia



- 23 -
Area Development Project (for the strengthening of ODTC), and the extension
project (for the definition of extension messages in Kasserine). The Project
would provide 24 m/m of long-term assistance for the organization of farmers
and 34 m/m of short-term technical assistance for financial management,
marketing, input supply, cooperatives and monitoring and evaluation, and
financing for studies for future investments in the Project area.
D. Status of Engineering and Implementation Schedule
4.25     Irrigation Infrastructure.  Detailed designs for first year
irrigation rehabilitation works and new irrigation schemes are completed.
Construction of networks is not expected to start until Project Year 2.
Tender documents would be prepared by the Offices under the supervision of the
Rural Construction Directorate. It is expected that all irrigation works
would be completed by the end of year 4 of the Project (Annex I).
4.26     Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads.  Cost estimates for the feeder roads
are based on preliminary designs of the proposed roads following design
criteria established by the World Bank-financed rural roads projects (Loans
1601-TUN and 2108-TUN) and recent tender offers for construction of roads
under those projects. The Studies Division of the Public Work Ministry has
hired consultants to prepare detailed engineering incuding any necessary
topographic surveys, hydrological studies and draft tender documents.
Retroactive financing for the foreign exchange costs of the studies estimated
at US$90,000 would be provided under the Project. Roads would be constructed
during year 1 and 2 of the Project.
E. Project Costs
4.27     Total Project costs for the 5-year implementation period, including
establishment costs, taxes, duties and contingencies are estimated at D 24.3
million (US$43.8 million), of which 45% or US$19.5 million are foreign
exchange.Costs include duties and taxes estimated at D 5.0 million (US$9.0
million).  Cost estimates are expressed in November 1982 prices.  Physical
contingencies included in the Project cost estimates are 15% for civil works
and irrigation equipment, and 10% for other equipment. Total physical
contingencies amount to D 1.7 million (US$3.1 million). Price escalation has
been estimated at 10% for 1982, 9% for 1983, 8% for 1984, and thereafter for
local costs and at 4%, 6%, 7.5% and 7%, respectively, for foreign costs. The
cost of consultant services, including support services, has been estimated at
US$11,000 per man-month for short-term consultants and US$9,700 for long-term
technical assistance. Overall contingencies would amount to D 5.6 million
(US$10.0 million) or 30% of base costs. Cost estimates, including
establishment costs, are summarized in the following table and showgn in detail
in Annex I:



- 24 -
Project Cost Estimates /a
Project Components           Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
D million ------              US$ million -----
A.  OMIVAK
Irrigation Rehabilitation        1.5       1.3       2.8         2.8       2.3        5.1
New Irrigation Schemes           0.5      0.7        1.1         0.9       1.1        2.0
On-farm Investments              1.0       1.0      2.0          1.8       1.8        3.6
Research and Extension           1.4       0.8       2.2         2.5       1.5        4.0
Roads and Buildings              1.3      0.8       2.1          1.5       1.5        3.7
Institutional Development &
Technical Assistance           1.3       1.1      2.4         2.3       2.0        4.3
Total Base Costs: OMIVAK         6.9       5.7      12.6        12.5      10.2       22.7
Physical Contingencies        0.6       0.5       1.1          1.1       1.0        2.1
Price Contingencies            1.7      0.9        2.6         3.0       1.7        4.6
Total Project Costs: OMIVAK   9.2          7.1      16.3        16.6      12.9       29.4
B. ODTC
Irrigation Rehabilitation        0.4      0.4       0.8         0.8        0.8        1.6
New Irrigation Schemes           0.8       0.9       1.7         1.5       1.6        3.1
On-Farm Investments              0.6      0.7        1.3         1.0       1.3        2.3
Research and Extension           0.5       0.3       0.8         0.9       0.5        1.4
Roads and Buildings              0.4      0.3       0.7          0.7       0.5        1.2
Institutional Development &
Technical Assistance          0.5       0.3       0.8         0.8        0.5        1.4
Total Base Costs:  ODTC        3.2       2.9       6.1         5.8       5.2       11.0
Physical Contingencies        0.3       0.3       0.6         0.5       0.5         1.1
Price Contingencies           0.8       0.5       1.2          1.4      0.9         2.2
Total Project costs: ODTC        4.3       3.7       7.9         7.7       6.6       14.3
COMBINED TOTAL BASE COSTS    10.1          8.6      18.7        18.3      15.4       33.7
Physical Contingencies   0.9         0.8       1.7         1.6        1.5       3.1
Price Contingencies        2.5       1.4       3.9         4.4       2.5        6.9
Front-end Fee on
Bank Loan                   -.       -0.1                                     0.1
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS 13.5         10.8      24.3        24.3      19.5       43.8
/a Discrepancies in totals are due to rounding.



- 25 -
F. Financing
4.28     The proposed Bank loan of US$16.5 million to the Government of
Tunisia would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs of the Project (excluding
the agricul'ural credit component, which would be financed through the various
credit lines available to BNT) and the front end fee of about US$0.1 million.
The Bank loan would cover 38% of Project costs (48% of Project costs net of
taxes). The following table shows financing sources for Project costs:
Financing Sources
Project Components         IBRD    BNT   Beneficiaries    Government         Total
(components)             -------------- US $ million equivalent -------------
Irrigation Rehabilitation      4.2    -           0.5              4.0            8.7
New Irrigation Schemes          3.7    -          0.4              2.7            6.8
On-farm Investments            -       4.8        1.9              0.7            7.4
Research and Extension          2.6    -          -                4.5            7.1
Roads                           2.3    -          -                3.2            5.5
Buildings                       0.3    -          -                0.2            0.5
Institutional and Technical
Assistance                    3.3    -          -                4.4            7.7
Front-End Fee                   0.1    -          -                -              0.1
Total Financing Requirements 16.5    4.8          2.8             19.7           43.8
4.29     The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years including four years of
grace.  The Government would allocate the proceeds of the loan to OMIVAK
(US$9.6 million equivalent), ODTC (US$4.8 million), and to the Highways
Department of the Ministry of Public Works (US$2.0 million) through their
respective annual budgets. The Government would also cause BNT to provide
investment credit to farmers and farmers' cooperatives (US$4.8 million), under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (i.e. under the same term and
condition agreed for the ongoing BNT III line of credit - loan 1885-TUN).
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotations. Remaining Project
costs (US$22.5 million) would be financed by the Government (US$19.7 million)
and the beneficiaries (US$2.8 million).
G. Procurement
4.30     Procurement would be carried out by the two Offices OMIVAK and ODTC
and by the Roads Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works. Procurement
contracts would be grouped as far as practical. Annex II lists contracts to
be awarded, methods of procurement, authorities responsible for their
processing and their likely types of suppliers.
4.31     International Competitive Bidding.  Project equipment, including
electromechanical equipment for pumping stations and tubewells, pressure
regulators, pipes, meters, valves, operation and maintenance equipment, as
well as equipment for collection centers, vehicles and agriculture machinery
valued at about US$9.5 million including contingencies would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. When bulking is not feasible, equipment and vehicle contracts



- 26 -
which do not exceed the equivalent of US$150,000 each, and totalling no more
than US$1.0 million in aggregrate for each Office, may be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive preference in bid evaluation of
15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.
4.32     Local Competitive Bidding.  Project civil works concerning irrigation
rehabilitation and construction of new schemes as well as offices, houses,
stores, marketing centers, sheep dips and sheds would be executed in small
lots, over a four-year period and would be scattered all over the Project
area. They would not be of interest to foreign contractors and would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for feeder roads amounting to a
total value of about US$3.9 million would also be awarded on the basis of LCB
procedures, as experience with similar works under the two Rural Roads
Projects (Loans 1601 and 2108) incdicates that such works will not generate
bids from foreign firms not estab:Lished in the country because of the
scattered nature of the works. Sufficient construction firms both local and
foreign are established in Tunisia to assure competitive prices under LCB.
The total amount of contracts to be awarded under LCB is expected to equal
about US$14.8 million.
4.33     Other Procedures.  Small dispersed civil works such as
land-levelling, upgrading of internal tracks, drainage improvements,
piezometers, and windbreak plantations valued at about US$1.6 million
equivalent would not be suitable f-or contracting. They would be carried out
by ODTC and OMIVAK by force account under standard Government procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank. Semi circular and trapezoidal canals required in
rehabilitation works, valued at about US$1.7 million including contingencies
would be purchased from Jebel Ouest Industries, the original supplier and the
sole present firm equipped to produce such canals. As new irrigation systems
no longer use such canals, no other firm is expected to equip itself for
Project needs. Purchase of these canals, would be executed through a
negotiated contract. Contracts for electrification (US$1.5 million) would be
negotiated with STEG, a public comnpany solely authorized to execute such works.
4.34     Contract Review.  Bidding documents and contracts for works estimated
to cost US$0.5 million equivalent or more and bidding packages for goods over
US$250,000 would require prior approval of the Bank, as would final award of
their respective contracts thus assuring prior review by the Bank of about 75%
of total contract values. In addition, all negotiated contracts would be
reviewed by the Bank before final award. The balance of contracts will be
subject to Bank review after contract award.
4.35     Consultants for studies and technical assistance (US$1.2 million)
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank would be appointed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, according to the Bank guidelines on use
of consultants published in August 1981.
4.36     Assurances that the above procurement procedures would be followed
were obtained at negotiations.



- 27 -
H. Disbursements
4.37     The proposed Bank loan of US$16.5 would be disbursed over 6 years and
would finance:
Category                             Amount    Disbursement
(us$)          %
A.  Buildings                                        800,000         40% of total
including Houses, Offices, Sheds,                             expendituires
Workshops, Research Stations,
Marketing Centers, Milk Collection
Centers, and Other Project Works
OMIVAK      650,000
ODTC         150,000
B.  Irrigation Equipment and Civil Works           9,250,000         50%  of local
including Rehabilitations, New                                expenditures or
Constructions, Deep Wells, Pumps                               100% of foreign
Hydrological equipment and                                    expenditures
Electrification, Windbreaks,
Land-Levelling and Internal Roads
OMIVAK      5,550,000
ODTC        3,700,000
C.  Feeder Road Rehabilitation                     2,000,000         40% of total
expenditures
D.  Other Equipment and Vehicles                   1,700,000         50% of local
(including for irrigation operation                             expenditures or
and maintenance)                                                100% of foreign
OMIVAK      1,200,000                                   expenditures
ODTC          500,000
E.  Consultants                                      500,000
65% of local
F.  Roads Studies                                    100,000         expenditures or
100% of foreign
G.  Studies & Fellowships                            300,000         expenditures
OMIVAK        200,000
ODTC           100,000
H.  Unallocated                                    1,727,171
I.  Front-end Fee                                    122,829
TOTAL                                 16,500,000
4.38     Disbursements would be made after receipt of full documentation,
except for works under force account (about US$1.6 million) for which
disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditures



- 28 -
(SOE). The SOE would be certified by OMIVAK and ODTC Project managers and
supporting documentation retained by OMIVAK and ODTC and made available for
inspection during Bank supervision missions. Provision has been made for the
retroactive financing of up to US$90,000 for the final design of feeder roads.
4.39     An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and
detailed in Annex I:
--------- Fiscal Years -----------------
Disbursements                  1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
------------ US$ million ------------------
Annual                         1.2      3.2     4.0      3.5      2.8     1.8
Cumulative                     1.2     4.4      8.4    11.9    14.7    16.5
The schedule of disbursements is based on actual disbursements of Bank
projects in Tunisia and EMENA agricultural disbursements adjusted to the
specific characteristics of the P'roject. It is expected that disbursements
for the Project would be faster than past averages; (i) Project authorities
have helped prepare the Project: start-up of activities is therefore expected
to be fast; (ii) tender documents for about 50% of all project costs would be
available by Board presentation; (iii) the activities under the Project are
not new to the executing agencies which have demonstrated in the past their
ability to execute such works; (iv) a large part of the investments (over 70%
of total expenditures) is expected to be completed by the end of year 4 of the
Project.
V. Project Implementation
A. Project Management
5.01     The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for the
execution of the Project. Its Planning Department would coordinate and
monitor Project activities, execute procurement actions for consultant
services, and supervise the allocation of funds through approval of the
budgets of the Offices. It would also coordinate with the Ministry of Public
Works regarding the feeder roads component.
5.02     Project works would be executed by the two Offices OMIVAK and ODTC,
and the Highway Department of the Ministry of Public Works. ODTC would be
responsible for works in Kasserine and the five delegations of Siliana and
Gafsa under its responsibility. ODTC has the necessary staff and
infrastructure to execute the relatively modest work program proposed. Its
operation and maintenance sections and agriculture support services would be
strengthened under the Project. In addition, ODTC benefits from a USAID
financed Project to strengthen its planning and implementation capacity
(para. 4.24). OMIVAK, which would be responsible for project works in
Kairouan (70% of total Project costs), has a technically competent core staff,
but its infrastructure and staffing are not sufficient to carry out the
proposed activities and would be strengthened under the Project. The Highways
Department of the Ministry of Public Works would be in charge of feeder road



- 29 -
rehabilitation and maintenance. The Department has successfully implemented
similar works under the two Highway Projects (para. 2.18) and has the
necessary staff at the regional and national level to execute the works
proposed under the Project.
B. Project Implementation Strategy
5.03     A major objective of the Project is to implement a sustainable water
resources development policy in Central Tunisia through the establishment of
organizational arrangements for the efficient management and exploitation of
water. To do so the Project would address the following three issues: (i) the
organization of farmers into water users' associations and their participation
in the management of the irrigation schemes, (ii) the organization of support
services for PPIs and PS, and (iii) the financial management of the Offices.
Farmers' Participation
5.04     The present non-involvement of the beneficiaries (para. 3.28)in
management of irrigation schemes has the following consequences: (i) operation
and maintenance tasks which could be more efficiently handled by the farmers
are executed by the Offices at relatively high cost. Limited budgetary
resources are thus used for maintenance rather than for major repairs leading
to the gradual delapidation of the systems, (ii) farmers are not aware of the
costs of operation and maintenance and are therefore reluctant to pay the
corresponding water charges, (iii) breakdowns of the systems, by increasing
farmers' risk, are a disincentive for farmers to intensify production. Low
levels of inputs lead to low returns, not allowing farmers to pay the full
price of water, (iv) Offices have only limited incentives to adapt their
services to farmers' requirements or to provide them in a timely and efficient
manner.
5.05     The legal basis for organizing farmers into water users' associations
in Tunisia are decrees dating from 1933 ("Associations d'Interets
Collectifs,"). Experience with these associations has not been good: their
statutes do not respond to the requirements of active participation of farmers
in modern irrigation schemes and they are not sufficiently flexible to be
adapted to heterogenous situations.  In order to prepare a legal framework
adapted to the needs of the PPIs and based on experience the Project would
promote de facto users' association, to be transformed, at the end of the
Project, into de jure associations.
5.06     The de facto Associations.  The Offices would, during construction
works, promote the organization of the farmers into water users'
associations. A committee consisting of representatives of farmers, the
Office and of regional authorities would take all decisions concerning the
rehabilitation works and proposed support services for agricultural
development. The proposed contractual agreements (para. 5.08) would be
discussed and prepared by these committees. Farmers' representatives would be
elected among farmers tilling their own soil and any decisions by the
committee would be discussed and ratified by the farmers of the irrigation
scheme. These committees would gradually take on more and more



- 30 -
responsibilities for the management of the schemes according to needs and
their abilities and would evolve into full-fledged water users' associations.
Experience with the de facto associations would allow the preparation of a
legal framework for such associations that is flexible and adaptable to the
different situations found in irrigation schemes. The Offices would be
responsible for preparing the farmers and their associations to progressively
take over most of the management functions thus reducing their direct
management role to one of technical backstopping, advice and control.
Provision of technical assistance for that task would be included in the
Project, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that a highly qualified
specialist in grass-root institutions would be recruited by 31 December, 1983
(para. 4.24).
5.07     The Establishment of de jure Associations.  It is expected that three
to five years after the rehabilitation the farmers would have acquired the
necessary experience and organization to participate in the management of the
schemes and increased the intensity of production sufficiently to be able to
pay for most of the costs of operation and maintenance. The de facto
associations would then be transformed into de jure water users'
associations. In order to ensure the availability of an adaptable framework
for those associations assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would prepare and adopt on the basis of the experience with the de
facto associations, a framework for those associations by December 31, 1986.
Agreement Between The Offices and Farmers
5.08     An agreement defining the rights and obligations of the farmers and
the Offices would be negotiated with the farmers or farmers' representatives
and signed upon completion of rehabilitation works. The agreement would be
endorsed by the regional authorities and the farmers' union ("Union Nationale
des Agriculteurs Tunisiens) who would assure compliance with the
stipulations. The major stipulations of these agreements have been discussed
and agreed upon with representative farmers and Office authorities. Under
these agreements the Offices would commit themselves (i) to fully rehabilitate
the schemes, (ii) to define, in collaboration with the farmers water
distribution and rotation, (iii) to provide extension services and inputs,
(iv) to facilitate marketing of crops, (v) to guarantee the supply of water as
determined in the water rotation agreement. The farmers would agree to the
following responsibilities: (i) to comply with land consolidation proposals;
(ii) to use irrigation water both in summer and winter; (iii) to participate
in rehabilitation works with their labor; (iv) to pay the agreed upon water
charges and to accept progressive increases until water charges cover
operation and maintenance costs; (v) to protect and maintain the irrigation
distribution system and on-farm investments. Farmers would execute minor
repair works by themselves under the guidance of the Office. Major repairs
would be executed by the Office against payment by the farmers; (vi) to repay
credit obtained from various credit sources; (vii) to contribute to a fund to
pay for major repairs; and (viii) to accept specific sanctions such as water



- 31 -
cut-offs in case of non compliance with the agreed upon obligations.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that proposed terms and conditions to
be included in these contracts would be submitted for the Bank's review by
September, 1984, and that agreements would be negotiated with the farmers upon
completion of rehabilitation works on each perimeter and before the start of
irrigation on the new perimeters.
The Organization of Support Services
5.09     OMIVAK and ODTC are providing agricultural support services and
intend to expand these activities (paras. 3.15-3.17). To avoid the creation
of inefficient state monopolies and unnecessary involvement of the Office in
activities which could be provided by the private sector, the following
principles would guide the Offices' expansion of agricultural support
servicest (i) the Offices would provide agricultural support services which
the private sector cannot provide due to the nature of the services (extension
and research); (ii) services required for efficient farming, but not readily
available in the Project region would be provided by the Offices at cost in
competition with the private sector; (iii) the Offices would set up a cost
accounting system and separate autonomous accounts for self-financing services
(para. 5.11); and (iv) the Offices would encourage the private sector or
farmers' associations to progressively take over the services initially
provided by the Offices.
Financial Management
5.10     Financial Management of the Offices.  The Offices provide a large
number of services: some are supposed to be financially self-supporting
(marketing services, machinery services, input supplies), others are partly
subsidized (credit, water) and some are totally subsidized (extension
services). The present financial management and accounting system do not
permit the Offices to establish the real costs and receipts of the various
activities. In addition, Government resource allocation to the Offices does
not encourage business-like management of these services (para. 5.11). To
assure efficient management and to establish fiscal accountability, the
Project would: (i) establish a cost accounting system, which would establish
the real cost of the various services; (ii.) establish a funding system for the
Offices which would assure fiscal accountibility by using separate accounts
for each activity, thus avoiding transfer of maintenance funds to cover the
cost of inefficient services; and (iii) determine for each fiscal year the
amount of water charges, the expected volume of water to be delivered, the
resulting revenues and costs, and the deficits to be financed through
budgetary allocations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) such
an accounting system be established by December 31, 1984; (ii) the Government
will propose for each new fiscal year a prospective budget for operation and
maintenance of the schemes, which would include estimated costs of operation
and maintenance of the schemes and expected revenues from water charges; and
(iii) that budgetary funding for maintenance be included in the Offices'
budgets under a specifically earmarked item, in amounts satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 32 -
C. Execution of Project Works
5.11     Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes.  The Central Directorate of
Rural Construction (Genie Rural) in Tunis, which has already prepared the
designs of the first year rehabilitation works, would be responsible for the
preparation of final designs and bidding documents. The two Offices, OMIVAK
and ODTC, would be responsible for bidding, bid evaluation, and supervision of
works. For the implementation of works, the Offices would create committees
and organize the farmers as described in para. 5.06.
5.12     Construction of New Irrigation Schemes.  Final designs and tender
documents are being prepared by consultants under the supervision of the
Directorate of Rural Construction. Tendering and supervision of works would
be executed by the two Offices. The economic and social viability of these
new irrigation schemes is very sensitive to assumptions about uptake of
irrigation and irrigation intensity. Past experience in Tunisia shows that
small farms are substantially more efficient and intensive than large farms.
In addition, limited water resources availability and non-recovery of a large
part of investments require, for income distribution reasons, that benefits of
irrigation schemes are distributed among as many farmers as economically and
socially feasible. Existing land reform legislation foresees that maximum and
minimum land holdings as well as the contribution of farmers to the
investments be determined by a specific decree for each irrigation scheme.
Application of the land reform law in the proposed irrigation schemes should
not be difficult as land distribution is rather even and landownership is well
defined. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that (i) the land
reform application decree would fix the maximum land holding and the farmers'
contribution to the investments at levels acceptable to the Bank (the maximum
land holding is expected to be about 5 ha per farmer and the farmer's
contribution to amount to at least 5% of irrigation infrastructure investment
based on a progressive scale); (ii) that the provisional delimitation of plots
would be completed before the start of construction; and that (iii) an
agreement concerning the rights and obligations of the beneficiaries
acceptable to the Bank would be signed before the start-up of irrigation.
Technical proposals concerning the draft decrees creating the new perimeters
would be submitted for Bank review. Assurances were obtained that such
decrees fixing land size and farmers' conbtribution at a level acceptable to
the Bank would be adopted no later than January 31, 1985.
5.13     Operation and Maintenance of the Irrigation Schemes.  After
rehabilitation or construction, the farmers would, based on the contractual
obligations signed at the start of the work (para. 5.08), be responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the irrigation distribution network. The
Offices would be fully responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
pumping stations. The Offices would assure that farmers are maintaining the
distribution system and if necessary would refuse to deliver water if the
distribution system is in disrepair. At a later stage, responsibility for the
pumping station would be transferred to the water users' association
(para. 5.07). Annual costs of operation and maintenance are expected to
average D 127/ha in Kairouan and D 110/ha in Kasserine. Costs will be
slightly higher for the new perimeters, ranging from D 145 to 191 per hectare.



- 33 -
5.14     Road Construction and Maintenance.  Road construction and maintenance
would be the responsibility of the Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees
(DGPC) in the Ministry of Public Works. Roads would be constructed under unit
price contracts, one lot for Kasserine and one for Kairouan. Construction
supervisior would be assured by DGPC's regional offices, which are experienced
in this type of work. The maintenance of the improved roads would be included
in the work program of the "rural brigade" covering the area. Staff,
equipment, and operating budgets were reviewed, and it was found that Project
specific requirements could be absorbed in the general upgrading of the
maintenance capacity of the two regional offices under the Bank financed Rural
Roads Projects (para. 2.18). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
adequate funds for maintaining roads improved under the Project would be
provided annually in the recurrent budget of DGPC.
D. Agricultural Support Services
5.15     Extension (Annex X of Project File).  Extension in the past has not
been effective due to organizational reasons (para. 2.16) and the
uncertaintity of water supplies (para. 3.38). The Project would reorganize
and strengthen the extension service in order to achieve and maintain regular
contact with farmers and a systematic supervision of the extension agents in
the field according to an annual working schedule. It would also increase by
21 the number of extension agents and provide them with houses close to the
farmers, transport, practical training, and technical support. Extension
activities would be closely integrated with the rehabilitation works, the
supply of inputs and credit and would use the de facto water users'
associations as communication channels. Extension agents would visit farm
groups on a regular basis, twice a month, on a regular day known to farmers
and supervisors. They would assist farmers not only on technical matters, but
would provide information on crop planning, marketing outlooks, water
requirements, etc. The 28 additional extension agents would be recruited from
the various training stations, which graduate sufficient extension agents for
Tunisia's needs. They would benefit from annual two-week training sessions at
the training station in Saida and they would attend monthly briefings and
refresher courses, conducted in the field by the subject matter specialists of
the applied research center according to a program established by the project
management in respect to the type of crop and the growing season development.
The Project authorities have agreed to follow these principles in carrying out
extension under the Project. Once improved cultural practices are
well-established under the Project and farmers' association are able to take
over some input supply functions, it is expected that the number of extension
agents could be reduced to limit the recurrent charges on the Government
budget.
5.16     Research (Annex XIII of Project File).  Research at the new applied
research center would be action and problem solving oriented. The station
program would focus on adapting cultural practices defined by INRAT at
national level to the specific growing conditions in the Project area.
Consequently the station's working program would be prepared in cooperation
with INRAT until such time as a planned national research organization is
established in Tunisia which would then integrate the station as a regional
adaptive research center oriented toward problems of the Central Tunisia
Zone. Problems identified by water users' associations and extension staff
would be submitted to the center's management which would be responsible to
carry out research works. The Center will operate with the extension service



- 34 -
to organize demonstrations of research results on farmers' fields and maintain
a communication channel between farmers and research. The research center
would carry out refresher courses in the field for extension agents prior to
the crucial periods of the growing season. The center's specialists would
also function as subject matter specialists for the extension agents.
5.17     The Pilot integration of rainfed and irrigation scheme would be
implemented by the OMIVAK extension division in close collaboration with the
Kairouan Forest Department, which is in charge of rangeland improvements and
the Livestock Office which promotes fodder production and distribution (Annex
XI of Project File). A detailed plan, defining participation of each
institution in the various activities, would be agreed upon at negotiations.
The results of the integration activities would be evaluated at mid-term, by
September 30, 1985, so as to review and adjust the proposed activities.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.18      Input Supplies and In-Kind Credit (Annex XV of Project File).  The
Offices would continue to distribute inputs, either against direct payment or
on short-term credit whenever these services are not available from the
private sector. Past performance of the Offices in this field has not been
satisfactory (paras. 2.12, 3.09). To improve the efficiency of those parts of
the input distribution system for which the Offices provide essential support
at farmers' level a study would be carried out to determine either the
necessary improvements of the existing system or development of the private
share in supply and distribution of inputs. The Office would; (i) hire a
management specialist to reorganize the distribution of inputs; (ii)
concentrate input supplies on inputs which are not readily available; (iii)
use the water users' association to determine the demand of services and
install a system of prepayment for ordering inputs which are not readily
available in Tunisia; (iv) organize the farmers to take over some of the
functions of input supply on the basis of an updated assessment of the
appropriateness of the current baLance between the private sector/Offices in
input distribution; and (v) sell the inputs at the real cost of distribution.
In-kind credit would be limited through the imposition of a ceiling and to
inputs which require special incentives to promote their use. The agreement
to be signed by the farmers and the Offices (para. 5.08) would specify
sanctions in case of non-repayment of the loans. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Offices would, in coordination with the results of the
input marketing study being carried out under the Bank-financed Technical
Assistance Project, submit by June 30, 1985 a financing plan acceptable to the
Bank for input distribution over ithe remaining years of the Project, and take
any measures agreed between the Bank and the Offices to implement this plan
thereafter.
5.19      Marketing Services (Annex XVII of Project File).  The two Offices
would (i) develop a marketing intelligence service and inform farmers, before
planting, of potential marketing constraints based on an analysis of the
intention to plant various crops; and (ii) assist water users' associations in
the organization of marketing of their crops. The Offices would also operate,
for a limited period, the collection centers and assist and train the
cooperatives, which will take over the management of those centers.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations (i) that the Offices will prepare an
action plan defining the marketing strategy and support role for their
marketing units by December 31, 1983; (ii) that they will operate the



- 35 -
collection centers and charge fees which will progressively cover their real
costs of transport and running the centers; and (iii) that they will submit to
the Bank for approval by June 30, 1986, a plan, including a timetable, for
transferring the management of the collection centers to cooperatives or
leasing them to private operators and will then promptly implement this plan.
5.20     Machinery Services (Annex XII of Project File).  Improved seed bed
preparation and cultivating techniques are major extension themes of the
Project. To assure availability of appropriate farm machinery, the Project
would finance machinery centers on a pilot basis. The centers would be
managed by the Offices and services would be provided at cost.  Costs to De
charged to farmers would have to be higher than prices paid for private
services. The pilot schemes would attempt to demonstrate that improved
machinery services can be efficiently and profitably provided by the Offices
and that farmers are willing to pay higher prices for better services. An
expansion of such services, either by the Office, private farmers or
cooperatives is foreseen, if the test proves successful.
5.21     Rehabilitation of Shallow Wells.  Mobile teams attached to each
Office will carry out rehabilitation works on shallow wells at farmers'
request. The costs of these services will be charged to the farmers and
credit will be available under existing credit lines from the BNT to finance
these costs. The Offices will assist the farmers to prepare credit requests
which will be reviewed by the regional credit committee under existing
procedures.
5.22     Milk Collection Centers.  Two pilot milk collection centers would be
established in the OMIVAK region. The Office would manage these centers and
farmers would be charged the costs of operating and maintaining the centers.
The milk would be sold to an existing processing factory in Kairouan which has
expressed its willingness to buy the milk from the offices. The Office, after
achieving full and successful operation of the centers, would transfer the
management of these centers to cooperatives on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a plan to this
effect would be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1986 and then implemented.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation., Accounts and Audit
5.23     Monitoring of inputs, activities and outputs of the Project would be
executed by the two Offices. A special monitoring system for the extension
service would be implemented by the Project. The new accounting system
(para. 5.10) would provide the necessary information to determine the
cost-effectiveness of various actions. Twelve man-months of short-term
consultancy would be provided to Project management to help them determine (i)
critical indicators to be monitored; (ii) a simple data collection system; and
(iii) the aggregation and processing of the information. Two agro-economists
would be hired (one in each office) to assist Project managers to lead the
Evaluation and Monitoring Units and to analyze the information collected by
the technical services. They would submit semi-annual reports to Project
management on Project inputs, activities, external variables affecting Project



- 36 -
execution and on Project achievements. The reports would put particular
emphasis on progress made in organizing farmers and in divesting the Offices
of support activities (para. 5.09). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Offices hire a management information system specialist on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1983.
5.24     Reporting and Evaluation.  Evaluation would be executed by
consultants under the supervision of the Planning Directorate of the Ministry
of Agriculture. They would set up a baseline farm level survey to determine:
(i) the impact of the Project ona farm income; (ii) the distribution of
benefits among farm beneficiaries; (iii) access of various farm groups to
Project activities; (iv) progress in self-reliance of users' association. The
two Project Directors (OMIVAK and ODTC) and the Director of Highways
Department would submit semestrial progress reports to the Planning
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would analyze these reports
and issue a concise issues report containing (i) a statement on progress of
physical execution of Project activities; (ii) analysis of factors which favor
and hinder Project execution and proposals of actions required; (iii)
information on progress in achieving Project goals; and (iv) policy
implications of the analysis for the national management of water resources in
Central Tunisia. Summaries and analysis of the information, prepared in
accordance with mutually agreed upon guidelines would be submitted to the Bank
annually. The Ministry of Agriculture would prepare with the information
provided by the Offices and DGPC a completion report, based on monitoring
information and an analysis of the evaluation data, to be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after completion of the Project. Assurances to
that effect were obtained at negotiations.
Accounting and Auditing
5.25     The Offices and DGPC in charge of project implementation maintain
budgets and accounts which are controlled by the Ministry of Finance.
Government control of expenditures is relatively strict: financial
controllers nominated by the Ministry of Plan and Finance provide for a
continuous review,, as they must approve each expenditure and record all income
transactions. The financial controllers must certify that accounts submitted
by the Offices are consistent with expenditures approved and income received
during the year. However, there is no verification of physical implementation
of works.
5.26     The Offices' financial and accounting procedures would be
strengthened under the Project to encourage efficient operations
(para. 5.10). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) the Offices
and DPC would maintain separate accounts for Project expenditures; (ii) the
Project accounts maintained by the Offices and DPC including separate accounts
for collection centers, and certificates of expenditures used to obtain Bank
disbursements, be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, according to guidelines agreed to by the Bank, and (iii) an audit report
with a specific opinion on collection centers and on statement of expenditures
be submitted to the Bank within nine months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 37 -
VI. Benefits and Justification
A. Production
6.01     P-oduction increases would result from actions on public
irrigation schemes, the rehabilitation of private wells, improved extension
services and input supply as well as improved farm access.
Production on Public Irrigation Schemes
6.02     Production increases on public irrigation schemes would result
from intensification of cropping and modification in cropping patterns due
to increased water availability and improved cultural practices.
6.03     Proposed Cropping Pattern.  The additional water available
(para. 4.09) would be allocated in the following way: (i) increased
irrigation of existing tree crop plantations; (ii) increased area planted
in perennial forage; (iii) increased winter crops, in particular forage, so
as to take full advantage of water resources and to limit summer irrigation
thus reducing the danger of salinity associated with the use of large
volumes of water during the summer months. The resulting modifications in
the proposed land use are given in the table para. 6.04.
6.04     Yield Developments and Production.  Increased water availability
and security (para. 4.09), an efficient extension service and input supply
system and improved marketing conditions (para. 5.20) are expected to
result in a substantial increase of input use and improved yields.
Estimated yield increases are conservative: full development yields are
already now being attained by progressive farmers in areas where sufficient
water is available. A summary of average present and future yields as well
as the increase of production on the public irrigation schemes are
summarized in the following table:



- 38 -
Present Situation                Full Development
Area    Yield    Production   Area    Yield   Production
(ha)    (t/ha)         (t)      (ha)    (t/ha)         (t)
Fruit trees
Olives            1,250       2.8       3,500       1,350        7.5    10,130
Apricots            340       4.5        1,530        400        9.0      3,600
Almonds             250       0.7          180        250        1.4        350
Other               240        8.0       1,930        260       12.0      3,080
Total            2,080                 7,140      2,260                17,160
Summer vegetables
Hot pepper           240       7.0       1,650        250       11.0     2,750
Tomatoes             120     11.7       1,350         190      20.0      3,780
Potatoes              20      12.0         240         70       18.0      1,300
Other                 60      13.0         770         60       20.0      1,150
Mel./Water Melon   320       15.0       4,730         160      23.0      3,700
Total              760                 8,740        730                12,700
Winter vegetables
Broad beans         380       7.7       2,910         360       11.0     3,690
Others               150     13.0        1,950        350       20.0      7,000
Total              530                 4,860         710               10,690
Forage Crops
Vetchoat (dry)       160      4.5          730        330        6.5     2,150
Alfalfa              120     19.6       2,320         300      45.0      13,500
Sorgho               40      21.0         860        240       41.0      9,840
Barley               180     19.0       3,500        380       30.0    11,400
Total              510                 7,410      1,250                36,890
Cereals             900        1.1         990       470         2.3      1,080
Industrial Crops       -      -              -        120        2.0        230
Total           4,780                            5,540
6.05     Total production of cereals would remain about constant (+9%)
while fruit production would more than double (+140%) and forage would
quadruple (+400%).



- 39 -
Production On Private Irrigation Schemes
6.06     The rehabilitation of 1,600 wells is expected to increase water
availability by 20%. Improvement of the distribution systems on 1,200
plots through construction of reservoirs and the acquisition of
distribution pipes would inrease water use efficiency and decrease water
losses by about 15%. Improved support services are expected to increase
yields by 15% over 5 years above what they would achieve otherwise for 60%
of the 5,900 private well farmers. At full development the proposed
actions would increase fruit production by 1,250 t fruits, vegetables by
22,830 t, watermelon/melon by 9,350 t, broad beans by 850 t, cereal by 370
t, fodder by 8,000 t.
B. Marketing and Prices
6.07     Fruit and Vegetables.  Since domestic demand for fruits and
vegetables continues to be strong, the relatively modest increases in
production to be generated under this project can be readily absorbed by
the domestic market. Consumption projections proposed for the VI Plan show
average rates of growth in domestic consumption from 3% per year for winter
vegetables to around 5% per year for fruit crops. Production increases in
this project fall slightly below these growth rates.
6.08     Overall rates of growth in production may be somewhat higher for
individual crops, such as almonds and olives, if the ambitious production
targets set for the VI Plan period are met. For these crops, no new
plantations are planned under the project. While increased production from
existing olive tree plantations in the project area is substantial (an
estimated 6,800 t by 1987), this production will just offset the reduction
of production in the Nehbana perimeters where over 2,500 ha of old
plantations are projected to be uprooted to permit increased area in higher
value off-season horticulture. The same substitution effect is expected to
apply to vegetable production under the project, as seasonal production in
other vegetable producing areas in the country is shifting into off-season
production.
6.09     Fodder.  Existing demand for fodder crops in the project area is
expected to readily absorb the incremental production estimated at
3 million F.U. Project-generated fodder crops would be an attractive
replacement for high-cost alternatives of feed concentrate and hay imported
from Northern Tunisia.
6.10     Industrial Crops.  Tunisia currently imports raw tobacco and
cotton fiber to supply its domestic processing industries. The small local
production would therefore find ready markets in substitution for imports.
The Regie Nationale du Tabac will provide marketing services for tobacco
produced in the project area, which will supply a new tobacco plant in
Kairouan. Cotton will supply mills in Sousse, 60 km from Kairouan, and
will be marketed through the Societe de Coton Tunisien, with the Offices
assisting in the bulking of production and transport if needed.



- 40 -
C. Beneficiaries and Distribution of Benefits
6.11     Agricultural support components of the Project, such as marketing
services, extension, research, and the strengthening of the Offices would
benefit all farmers of the irrigated subsector in the Project zone
estimated at about 12,000 farm families. Irrigation rehabilitation would
benefit about 2,000 farmers on public irrigation schemes. About 350
farmers would benefit from new irrigation schemes and 5,900 families having
private wells would benefit from the Offices' support actions for the
development of private well production. The road component is expected to
provide improved farm access for about 5,000 farm families and an estimated
1,000 farmers would benefit from the integrated rainfed/irrigation pilot
projects.
6.12     Farmbudgets, to quantify financial costs and benefits of the
proposed actions to the farmers, have been developed for different farm
sizes and for the various actions proposed under the Project. They are
based on the implementation of Project works and the adoption by farmers of
a set of production techniques which have proven to be technically feasible
and financially profitable (Annex XX of Project File). Farm models are
based on detailed studies of the farmers in the Project area including:
(i) a typology study which categorized farm parameters from an exhaustive
survey of farmers on public irrigation schemes; (ii) a survey of land
holdings and cropping pattern on lands to be irrigated by new irrigation
schemes; (iii) a random sample survey of farmers in PPIs and using private
wells; (iv) an exhaustive inventory of the state of private wells and of
farmers' intentions concerning rehabilitation; and (v) information from
regional technical staff on production potential, land use capability and
production methods.
6.13     The changes in income, and financial rates of return, for the
investments in private wells for indicative farms are:



- 41 -
Income   Income  Percentage
Number    Number    without   with          income
Farm Model                         of ha   of farmers  Project  Project  increase
------D--------       %
Public Irrigation Schemes
Small farmer with
fruit trees                      1.65      800           420        990      135
Small farmers without
fruit trees                      1.65      510           495      1,000      100
Medium-sized farm                  6.75       77        1,595      3,630       128
Large farm                        15.50       37        4,200      7,160        78
Kasserine:  Average farm           2.83      531          825      1,450        76
New Irrigation Scheme
Small farmer                      0.80       325         - /a        380         -
Medium-sized farmer                3.23      125         - Ia      1,340
Financial
Income   Income    Rates of
Number    Number    without   with          Return on
Farm Model                         of ha   of farmers  Project  Project  Investment
-------D--------       %
Private Wells
Improvement in distribution
system                           4.8       590         1,650      2,010        23
Replacement of pumps              4.8        590        1,650      1,650        50
Rehabilitation of well            4.6     1,600         1,370      1,540        50
/a Income on presently dryland farmed land is negligeable.
6.14      Farm revenues in the without and with Project situation include
(i) revenues from irrigated land, which would increase under the Project;
and (ii) an imputed, constant revenue from dryland farming based on average
net revenues from dryland farming depending on farm size. Non-farm income
has not been included, but is estimated to average 37-38% of total family
income for households both on the PPIs and with private wells. Income
without Project is based on present water charges while income with the
project presumes that water charges would be increased to cover full
operation and maintenance costs of irrigation water. The decreased risk of
farming due to more reliable water supply and the substantial gains in
income provide sufficient incentives to the farmers to participate in the
Project. The farmbudget analysis also shows that farmers are able to pay
the required recovery charges (paras. 6.19-6.24). Crop by crop analysis
shows that farmers have the necessary financial incentives to produce
summer vegetables and fruits, but benefits from winter vegetables and



- 42 -
forage crops are small. The average return per ha at full development
amounts to 795 D/ha for fruit trees and 1,105 D/ha for summer vegetables,
but amounts to only 580 D/ha for winter vegetables and 65 D/ha for forage
crops. Water, valued at average operation and maintenance costs, is a
significant part of total production costs (25-30%). To encourage water
use during the winter months when water is relatively abundant and in view
of the relatively low returns of winter crops, differential water rates for
summer and winter would have to be established to assure optimum water
use. Assurances were obtained at negotiations (i) that the Government
study possibilities of differential water rates according to the seasons;
and (ii) submit to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1984 a proposal for
differential water charges that would provide farmers with sufficient
incentives to produce winter crops and would take any actions as may be
agreed with the Bank.
D. Cost Recovery (Annex XXI of Project File)
6.15      General Policy and Practice.  The current policy of the Tunisian
Government is that the financing of major irrigation infrastructure works
is the responsibility of the State, but that the beneficiaries should
contribute toward the financing of the distribution network, including both
its capital and recurrent costs. The principles of farmer contributions
toward the "downstream" investments in public irrigation perimeters was
formulated in Land Reform Legislation, first applied in 1963 (no. 63 - 18
of 21/5/1963 and amended no. 71 - 9 of 16/2/1971). Benefitting farmers are
charged a betterment levy fixed at the time the perimeter is officially
established and based on investment costs per ha, soil quality, proposed
cropping patteti1, and socio-economic environment. Recurrent costs are
financed, at least in part, from volumetric water charges, generally
collected in advance. In addition the Government collects a 3% sales tax
on all marketed agricultural produce; increased tax revenues from
incremental production are an important contribution toward recovery of
public sector outlays for irrigation.
6.16      In practice, collection of betterment levies represents a minor
share of irrigation cost recovery in Tunisia (ranging from 2-10% for
perimeters where this has been analyzed). Recovery of recurrent costs
alone is considerably better, but falls quite short of 100%. The Bank's
objectives in the area of irrigation cost recovery are to urge the
Tunisians to improve their overall recovery performance progressively,
first by achieving 100% recovery of operation and maintenance costs,
subject to farmers ability to pay.
Investment Cost Recovery under the Pro ect
6.17      Rehabilitation of Existing Perimeters.  Tunisian Government policy
does not provide for recovering investment costs of rehabilitating existing
irrigation networks which are deferred maintenance costs creating no new
income sources for farmers. An estimated 10% of these costs, will however
be recovered from the sales tax on incremental production generated by
project investments.



- 43 -
6.18     New Perimeters.  Betterment levies that the farmers will pay for
land benefitting from the new irrigation schemes would be fixed by decree
(para. 5.13). In order to balance the objective of improved cost recovery
with farmers' ability to pay, and to encourage equitable distribution of
land in the new perimeters it is proposed that the per hectare levy be
fixed on a progressive scale according to size of holding. Farmers with
less than 3 ha would be charged a levy which corresponds to roughly 5% of
per hectare investment costs or D 200/ha; those with from 3-5 ha would be
charged up to 10% of investment costs or D 400/ha on land held above the
3 ha threshhold. The levy would be payable in annual installments over ten
years according to existing legislation. At these levels, recoveries from
the betterment levy represent from 3-4% of total investment costs, which
fall within the range of recoveries for the levy established in other
perimeters, but slightly exceed the recovery level in a comparable
perimeter in Central TunisiaiL.  Together with the revenues generated
from the 3% sales tax, approximately 5-10% of investment costs will be
recovered.
6.19     Operation and Maintenance Cost Recovery Under The Project.
Current water charges in the project area are low, recovering less than
half the cost of on-going operation and maintenance of the irrigation
perimeters. This reflects a long standing practice of subsidizing water
use throughout the country, and in Central Tunisia in particular. The
Government is now willing to change this policy and to increase water
charges, as evidenced by the actions of OMIVAK, which has doubled water
charge from 6 to 12 millimes within a year and ODTC which has increased its
water charges from 4 to 10 millimes over the last two years.
6.20     Given the profitability of irrigated fruit and vegetable
production in Tunisia and the importance of maximizing water use
efficiency, water charges could and should be substantially increased. The
Government has agreed in principle to the target of full recovery of
operation and maintenance costs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the following principles would be applied in defining water charges
under the Project; (i) an increase of water charges on a regular basis;
(ii) a substantial mid-point increase in water charges by the end of 1986;
and (iii) a system of recovery measures implemented during the project
which would provide for the rehabilitated PPIs, full O&M cost recovery by
December 31, 1989. This should include direct involvement by benefitting
farmers in network maintenance and minor repairs, as discussed in para.
5.08. This system of recovery measures would similarly be applied to the
new perimeters.
/1 CNEA study of Medjerda, Nehbana, Badrouna, and Lakhmes perimeters.
Lakhmes is located in Central Tunisia and is comparable to the
perimeters included in this project in terms of agricultural potential.



- 44 -
6.21     The full cost of water in the rehabilitated perimeters, based on
projected O&M costs and water consumption at full development, is estimated
to be 22 millimes/m3 in 1982 prices. While farm budget analyses (see
para. 6.14) show that increases in incremental farm income will be
substantial even at this level of water charges, this level would represent
a sizeable share of farmers' rent (from 38-50%) which may discourage
intensive irrigation and which would be substantially higher than rent
recovery levels achieved in more prosperous areas such as Nebhana.
However, the proposed involvement of farmers in operation and maintenance
of the schemes would reduce the cost of water to about 16 millimes and cash
rent recovery to an acceptable level of about 26-34% (see Annex XXI of
Project File).
6.22     The full cost of water in the new perimeters is higher, ranging
from 26-32 millimes/m3 reflecting higher investment and maintenance,
costs. It is considered impractical to apply higher water charges in the
new perimeters than in the existing ones during the first several years of
irrigation when farmers in the new perimeters are being encouraged to
intensify irrigation and are also paying a betterment levy. The target
water charge level in the new perimeters will therefore be the same as that
proposed for the existing PPIs.
6.23     Overall Irrigation Cost and Rent Recovery Under The Project.
Based on the principle of full O&M cost recovery in the rehabilitated PPIs
and including the revenues generated by the sales tax on incremental
marketed production, overall cost recovery in the rehabilitated PPIs would
be approximately 50%, leaving a Government subsidy totalling D 4.1 million
over 20 years (discounted at 10%). In the new perimeters, overall cost
recovery would be considerably lower and would range from 12% to 31%
including revenues from the betterment levy. This compares favorably with
prior cost recovery levels elsewhere in Tunisia (5-30%), exceeding the
level for a comparable perimeter in Central Tunisia (5%).
6.24     Assuming farmers participate in operation and maintenance as
discussed in paras 5.06-5.07, total charges on farmers in the rehabilitated
perimeters, including sales taxes, represent from 36-43% of their estimated
rent. This represents a slight increase over the projected recovery level
agreed to in the Medjerda/Nebhana project (FY82) (32-38%). Rent recovery
in the new perimeters is higher, reflecting both the added charge from the
betterment levy and a somewhat slower build-up of project benefits. Rent
recoveries based on charges described in the preceeding paragraphs would
range from 44% on small farms to 64% on medium-sized farms.  These levels
are considerably higher than those reached elsewhere in Tunisia estimated
in the CNEA study to range between 6-32% (excluding taxes). Based on this
analysis, the recovery proposals described represent progress toward
improved irrigation cost recovery, while taking into account the need both
to assure incentives for intensive irrigation and to minimize inequities
between regions and sub-sectors for sharing the cost recovery burden.
E. Economic Analysis
6.25     The overall rate of return is estimated at 16% and has been
calculated for a period of 20 years, which is the estimated average life of
the investments. It is based on the value of net incremental production



- 45 -
as discussed in paras. 6.04-6.06. All the benefits and costs have been
converted to economic prices based on a set of integrated conversion
factors calculated for Tunisia during economic sector work in 1980.
Project Coplts
6.26     Costs included in the overall economic analysis were incremental
farm input costs, Project investments and operating costs, all valued at
economic prices (Annex XXI of Project File). Most of Project costs, except
for farm inputs such as fertilizers and machinery services, have a low
accounting ratio i.e. financial prices higher than their economic costs.
The low ratios reflect the high indirect taxes and tariffs, import quotas
and the excess of wages for unskilled labor above their opportunity costs.
6.27     The Cost of Water.  The cost of operation and maintenance of the
systems has been included into Project costs as water charges. The
financial costs of operating and maintaining the systems has been broken
down into its elements and each element converted into its economic cost
using the appropriate accounting ratio. The cost of energy for pumping has
been valued at border prices, adjusted by 2% per year for expected
increases in relative costs of energy.
6.28     Most equipments have a conversion factor of about .60 reflecting
protective custom duties (25%) and indirect taxes (10%). Construction
conversion factors are at .55 reflecting distortions in the cost of
unskilled labor (.45), equipment (.60) and materials (.65).
6.29     Farm inputs have been valued at border prices based on Bank
projections of their future value. Farmgate prices of fertilizers are
substantially below their economic border price equivalent. The accounting
ratios used (1.7 to 2.2) are based on a comparison of farmgate prices with
CIF prices for urea imports and FOB prices of exports of phosphatic
fertilizers adjusted according to World Bank price projections.
6.30     Labor.  About half of the additional labor would be required at
peak labor demand periods and would be valued at the going labor rate
adjusted by the appropriate conversion factor (.70), while half of the
labor demand would be required during off-peak periods valued at the
unskilled labor conversion factor (.30). The average conversion factor for
unskilled labor thus amounts to .50. Skilled labor and technical staff was
valued at .70 reflecting growing oversupply of technical staff in Tunisia.
The Benefits
6.31     The benefits included in the Project consist mainly of increased
production of fruit, vegetables and forage and employment creation. They
have have been projected on the basis of representative farm budgets
(paras. 6.12-6.14). Production benefits include incremental production on
the rehabilitated PPIs (representing 48% of net incremental production),
new PPIs (16%), and private wells (36%). In addition to its production
benefits, the Project would create directly some 381,000 mandays or 1,500
additional full time jobs in agriculture. The estimated Project benefits



- 46 -
are relatively conservative due to (i) a relatively modest projected
increase in yields; (ii) low projected additional production from private
wells and (iii) Project benefits do not include a decrease in production in
the without Project situation. Such a decrease would be probable, if the
present deterioration of the irrigation schemes would continue.
6.32      Fruits and vegetables have been valued at the wholesale market
prices, broken down into the various components and each component
converted into economic prices by the relevent accounting ratio. The
economic value of fruits and vegetables is about 30% higher than the
financial prices, reflecting the impact of taxes (7%) and low accounting
ratios for marketing (.70). Forage production has been valued on the basis
of its conversion into meat and milk, valued at their economic value. The
economic value of forage is about 35% higher than its financial price, due
to subsidies and the large deficit of fodder in the Project area, which
results in a high conversion factor for fodder expressed in the economic
value of additional meat and milk production (Annex XXI of Project File).
Separate rates of return have been calculated for the rehabilitation and
new irrigation schemes and to justify the feeder road component.
6.33      Incremental analyses for the rehabilitation of each of the 37
irrigaton perimeters have been made. The incremental analysis includes the
direct benefits obtained from each perimeter, and the costs of
rehabilitating that specific perimeter. Overall project costs, such as
strengthening of the Offices, extension, marketing etc. were not included
in the incremental analysis. Out of the 37 perimeters, six have an
incremental rate of return greater than 50%, 18 have an IRR of 30-50%, 11
between 20 and 30% and two perimeters betwen 10% and 20%. As all the
perimeters have an incremental rate of return well above the opportunity
cost of capital estimated at 8%, their inclusion into the overall Project
is justified.
6.34      Six new irrigation perimeters have been analyzed and their
preliminary designs have been reviewed. One of the perimeters was
excluded: agronomic constraints (stony soils requiring additional
investments) do not allow full realization of benefits of irrigation and
the investments are therefore not: economically justified. For the
remaining five perimeters, the final designs incorporate various cost
savings and revenue increasing alternatives such as better use of water
resources, adoption of irrigation during the night (night irrigation is
preferred by farmers) to avoid construction of costly reservoirs and the
reduction of the distribution network to the area which can effectively be
irrigated in summer, given the water resource constraints. Based on these
designs, the five new schemes al-L have acceptable rates of return, as
shown;
IRR
Mzira I:         (50 ha)               21.4%
Mzira II:        (46 ha)               18.2%
Ain Hdia:        (80 ha)               18.8%
Feriana:        (169 ha)               10.1%
Henchir Jefna (210 ha)                 14.8%



- 47 -
6.35     Feeder Roads.  The proposed feeder roads improvement would amount
to establishing lowest level service standards (N2) that provide year round
access to the various Project areas, which at present do not have assured
access during the rainy season. Without adequate access to marketing the
farmers cannot be expected to produce high value, perishable fruit and
vegetables. The road component is therefore considered as an integral part
of the investment package required to obtain the expected benefits from the
Project. To determine whether the benefits of each area covered by a road
justifies total investments including road construction and maintenance,
the influence zone of each road has been analyzed separately. The beneffts
taken into account include users' savings based on existing traffic and the
net value of incremental production within the influence zone of each road
(Annex XXII of Project File). The costs include: (i) road construction
and maintenance; (ii) investment and operating costs of the PPIs and
private wells within the zone of influence of each road; and (iii) a
proportion of overall costs (extension, institutional development, etc.)
corresponding to the ratio of the area of each zone of influence to the
total Project area. The rates of returns in the 11 road influence zones
vary from 10% to 24%. An additional analysis was made to determine whether
some of the feeder roads, which already have a substantial amount of
traffic and/or a substantial projected Project-induced increase in traffic,
may be improved to a higher level of service with a 6-meter running service
on a 9-meter platform. This analysis only takes into account vehicle
operating cost savings from normal and future Project-induced traffic. The
analysis shows that for only one road (Road No. 2 in Kairouan, 16 km long)
is a higher level of improvement justified, with an IRR of 11.3%. The
9-meter platform standard (N3) is therefore proposed for this road.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
6.36     The Project design attempts to minimize the risks of the Project.
The risk of non-participation of farmers has been minimized through (i) the
exclusion from the Project of irrigation schemes where land tenure problems
or absenteeism may inhibit farmer's participation; (ii) the integration of
farmers into the design of Project activities and into the management of
the irrigation schemes; (iii) minimizing the farmers' risks in adopting
intensive cropping methods by improving the reliability of the water
delivery system and by providing compensation for farmers' losses due to
breakdowns in water delivery. The risk of unadapted agricultural packages
has been minimized by proposing only techniques which have already shown
their adaptability to the region. The risks of overexploitation of water
resources has been addressed by (i) emphasizing water use efficiency,
rather than increased exploitation; (ii) a conservative analysis of water
resources availability; and (iii) setting up a monitoring system of the
aquifers where risks of overexploitation exist.



- 48 -
6.37     Major risks concern marketing, maintenance of the systems and less
than expected water use during the winter months. Marketing projections
show that expected demand for fruits and vegetables in Tunisia should
easily absorb increased project area production (paras. 6.07-6.10). The
risk of temporary over-supplies with accompanying fall of prices would be
minimized by improved marketing infrastructure and an information system on
marketing, prices and cropping intentions. The risk of renewed gradual
deterioration of the systems due to lack of maintenance has been one of the
major concerns in Project design:  (i) the creation of the two Offices, by
bringing management of the systems closer to the farmers and thus making it
more responsive has already improved the efficiency of maintenance
services. The Project, by rehabilitating the systems so that they can be
maintained at a reasonable cost and by strengthening the Offices'
maintenance capacity would improve the management of the systems; (ii) the
Project by organizing farmers to execute minor repairs and by mobilizing
farmers would increase accountability of the offices towards the farmers
for operation and maintenance; (iii) increases in water charges and
decreased costs of maintenance due to farmers' participation in the
mangement of the systems would generate sufficient funds to maintain the
systems properly; and (iv) assurances have been obtained that the
Government would allocate the required resources for maintenance of the
systems for as long as water charges will not cover full operation and
maintenance costs (para. 5.11). A significant share of project benefits
depend on increased water use during the winter months. The recent
Government decision to gradually discontinue fodder subsidies will increase
the financial incentives for growing winter forage. The proposed
differential water rates for winter crops (para. 6.14) would provide
additional financial incentives to farmers to increase cropping intensity
in the winter.
6.38     Risks of delays in Project implementation, which have been
frequent in Tunisia, are small in this Project. The actions proposed under
the Project are relatively simple and the Offices have already proven their
ability to execute similar works. The involvement of the staff of the
Offices in the preparation of the Project and the availability of designs
and staff to execute the tasks, as well as the relatively small number of
works to be executed by two independent Offices should permit a rapid
implementation of Project works.
6.39     Sensitivity Analysis.  The risks discussed above would involve
either reductions in crop yields, reduced area cropped, increased operating
costs, delays in Project benefits, reduced benefits or cost overruns. The
Project's economic viability is relatively insensitive to changes in the
assumption about costs and benefits as shown by the following sensitivity
analysis. Exaggerated delays in all project components or a permanent fall



- 49 -
in prices or yields of project production from projected levels could
jeopardize the project's economic viability; however these are considered
highly unlikely. Poor maintenance of the PPIs could nevertheless
substantially reduce the project's net economic benefits.
Rate of Return
Base case                                        16.0
Increase in project costs by 30%                 11.0
Decrease in project benefits by 30%               9.5
All benefits lagged by 3 years                    9.0
50% reduction of benefits on rehab. PPIs         10.7
50% reduction of benefits on new PPIs            14.7
50% reduction of benefits on private wells    12.5
Poor maintennce reducing life of
rehabilitated PPIs to 10 years                 11.3
VII.  Agreements Reached_
7.01     Assurances were obtained at negotiations, that:
(i) the Government would cause BNT to provide project related
investment credit to farmers and cooperatives on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.29);
(ii) the Government would prepare, on the basis of the experience of
the de facto water users' associations, a framework for the water
users' associations by December 31, 1986 (paras. 5.06 - 5.07);
(iii) an agreement defining the responsibilities of the farmers and the
offices in the management of the irrigation schemes would be
negotiated upon completion of rehabilitation works on each
perimeter (para. 5.08);
(iv) water charges and land betterment levies would be defined
according to the principles outlined in paras. 6.18 and 6.20;
(v) a cost accounting and component specific funding system be
established by December 31, 1984 for each of the two Offices
(para. 5.10);
(vi) the Government review with the Bank annually the efficiency of
operation and maintenance of the schemes and adopt, for each
fiscal year, the prospective budget for operation and maintenance
of the irrigation schemes and that the projected required
budgetary financing for maintenance be included in the Offices'
budgets under a specifically earmarked item, in amounts
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.10);



- 50 -
(vii) provisional delimitation of plots on new irrigation schemes would
be completed before start of construction, the decrees acceptable
to the Bank creating the new perimeters would be adopted by
January 31, 1985 and an agreement be signed with beneficiaries
before start up of irrigation (para. 5.12);
(viii) adequate funds for maintaining feeder roads improved under the
project would be provided annually in the recurrent budget of DGPC
(para. 5.14);
(ix) the Government would undLertake by September 30, 1985 a mid-term
evaluation of the pilot integration scheme (para. 5.17);
(x)  the Offices would submit by June 30, 1985 a long-term financing
plan for input distribution services acceptable to the Bank (para.
5.18);
(xi) the two Offices would prepare an action plan defining the strategy
and support role for their marketing units by December 31, 1983,
that they would recover the costs of operating and maintaining
collection centers (milk, fruit and vegetables) and that they
would present a plan and timetable by June 30, 1986 for turning
over the management of these centers to private operators or
cooperatives (paras. 5.19, 5.22);
(xii) the Offices would hire a management information specialist on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1983
(para. 5.24);
(xiii) that separate project accounts would be kept by the Offices and
DPC and that the Government would hire independent auditors and
transmit their report within nine months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 5.26); and
(xiv) that the Government study possibilities of differential water
rates and submit to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1984 a
proposal for differential water charges that would provide farmers
with sufficient incentives to produce winter crops (para. 6.14).
7.02     With the above assurances and agreements, the proposed Project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.5 million to the Tunisian
Government for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Table la
- 51 -
December 29f 1982  12:23
TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGCTION PROJECT
Project Component bY Time
Bzse CQs's                                      Total
PYl         PY2          FPY3         PY4          PY5         DItJAP         fUS$)
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       516,345.7   903,485,5   705.378.4   5'8,640.3   472,c7,-e 1 -    55,iSS9,3  5686, 286.9
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION         1,200,864.2 1192,836,0   665,549.0   417i813.4    26.507,1  3,503.569.7  6i312(-38.2
PRIVATE WELL DEVELOPMENT                         90,425,7   117,422.4       5,262.5             -            -    213,110.7    383,983,3
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION                          532,851.1   843,904.0   737,255.0   434,600.3   433?526.7  2,982,137.1  5,373,220.0
INFRASTRUCTURE                                  927,973.8 1,692,587.3    90!235,0    70,824.4    48Y022.5   r7279.64'.9  4,918,27'5.5
NEW IRRIGATION SCHEMES                          605,804.0 1,i134,207.2   591,492.i   500,859.0               -  2,832,362.3  5,103,355.4
CREDIT                                          290,260.5   587,616.7   825,907.5   795,587.7   794,057.6  3,293.430.0  5,934i108.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                              4,064,525.0 6,472,059.1 3,621,079,5 2778i325.1 1,774,153.2 18,710,141,9 33,711,967.4
Physical Contingencies                           462,459.3   708,616.0   318S731.2   201,206.1    50,916.9  1,741,929?6  3,138,t11.9
Price Continsericies                             246,626.2   ?94,539,1   890,345.4   944,012.3   761l743,3  3f837,266.3  6,913,993.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                               4,773,610.5 8,175!214.2 4,830,156.2 3,923,543.5 295'865S13.4 24,289,337.7 43.764,572,5
Taxes                                          1,037,307.1 1,714,790.,0  ?80,790,0   801,610.5   505-520.0  5,040,017,6  9,081,1128
Foreign Exchange                               2,476,010.5 3,687,621.4 2,005,036.6 1-622,044,5 1,009,793,0 iO.300f506.0 19,460.371.2
December 29, 1982 12:23



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                                              Table 1
Page 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APrPrAIsAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project CoEtS
('000 D)
Base 30sts                        oreisrn Exchange
N o.   of  - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - - -  - -
Unit       Unit Cost       Units    PY1       FYIY    PY3       FY4      PY5    ,otcl        X      Aourit
I, INVESTMENT COSTS
P. CONSTRUCTION
HOUSES , OFFICES   WORKSHOPS                           UNIT       0,103-18,514   2,432   107.0   421.1   214.3    18.9             6.5    767.8   43.6        335,0
MARKETiNG S MACHINERY CENTERS                          UNIT        0.103-2.469       606    49.2    24,6           -        -        -      73,7   43.6        32,2
RESEARCH CENTERFS                                      UNIT        Q.103-1.029       575    20.6    57.1           -        -        -      77.7   43.6        331.
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                                         176.7   502.E    214.3    18.9         6.5    915,2   43,6        401.1
Physical Contingencies                                                                  -    26,5    75.4    32.2        2.8       1.0    137,9   43.o         nO.2
Price Contingencies                                                                     -    12.3    81,2    55.5        6.9       3.1    159.0   34.8         55,4
Sib-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                              215.5   659.4   302,0    28.5         10.6  1216,1   42.5         516,6
Taxes                                                                                   -    49.6   151.7    695,        6.6       2.4     279,7    0,0         0,0
Foreign Exchange                                                                        -    92.0   280,3   127.8    12.0          4.5     516,6    0.0         0.0
P. IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS - REHABILITATION
i, IRRIGATION FEHABILITATION
DEEP WELL                                           OT         1.023-81,832        81   122.7    40.9          -        -        -    1631,7   64.8       106.1
RESERVE TUBE WELLS                                  DT               81.332         7        -   163,7   .45,5    81.8    81.8    572.8   64,8            371.3
PUMPING STATION                                     DT          1,029-6.175         i    12.0       5,1        -      5.1        -      22,2   43.6          ,7
ELECTRIFICATION                                      PT        1,023-31.846       10    88.3      12.9        -      3.9         -    105,2   64.8        68.2
CONVEYANCE ANE' STORAGE WORKS                       DT         1.032-19.818       237    74,5   160,4       39.3      7.4        -    28i,6   29.6         83.5
RELEVELLING OF CANALS                               CIT         0.258-4.678       212    1.6   148.2    38.5          4,8         -     130,2   39.6       9i2
REPLACEMENT OF CANALS I PIPES                       DT          1.025-31.98    1,167   430.9   487.9   269.8          S5,3        -  1,226.8   59,        732.5
HYDIRAULIC STRUCTURES                               DT         1,001-22,142       425    67.8   104.2   1(05.0    17.2            -    494,2   39,6       195.8
Sub-Total IRRIfiATION REHABILITATION                                                        814.8 1,123.4   698.0   1             81.8  3,096.8   53.5   1,6583,
Physical Contingencies                                                              -   122.2   168.5   104.7    56,8          2.3    464,5   51.5        248S7
Price Contirngencies                                                                -    49.5   173.5   171.0   136          135,7    566,0   45,3        ?5bi
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                           986,6 1,465.4   9737       571.7   129,3  4,127.3   52,4   2,163.2
Taxes                                                                               -   211.3   306.3   20990   121?9    31             S80.5    ^.         i0
Foreign Exchange                                                                    -   543,9   743.5   531.'   261.4    83.0  2,16312    0.0               O,Oi
2. ON-FARM AND OTHER WORKS
LEVELLING                                           HA          0103-0,103   1,650    51,1    21            6,       35.0         -    169,9  3?           .
WINDBREAKS                                           96          .3882-1,238      276    40.6    57.4   105.5    49.2             -    252.79  .8          24.8
DRAINAGE WORKS                                       [IT                1.03 1               -              10                    -      17-0   39 .6    6.7
INTERNAL ACCESS ROADS                               KM          0.103-0.103        34      0.3    312          -        -        -        3.5   39.6        1.4
Sub-Total ON-FARM AND OTHER WORKS                                                            92.0    81.9   135.1    34.2            -     144.    224       i-
Physical Contingencies                                                              -    13.8    12.3    27.8        I_.t         -     6I.5   22,6        15.0
Price cr.t:xsancies                                                                               15.4    53.2    33.6           -    109.9   16.3        13.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                           113.4   i09,6   266.0   130.5            -    6195  21.5         133.3
Taxes                                                                               -    11.3    14.5    39.0        15.9         -     90.7    0.0         0I.
Foreian Exch8nge                                                                    -    29.1    19.6    57.7    27.4             -    133,3    F.          O
Sub-Total IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS - REHABILTTATION                                               906.8 1,205.3   883.1   462           1 .  3,53.9,   9.          '58 5
Physical Contingencies                                                                  -   136.0   1808   132,5 32.4    12.i    5315   49-                  263..
Price Corntingencies                                                                    -    57,2   188.9   224.2    1 i?.9               675.9   40.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                            1,100.0 1,575.0 1,239.8   72.2   129 8  4,746.3  48i.                 S I ;
Taxes                                                                                   -   229.5   320.8   248.3   140.           11    971.1                  eO
Foreign Exchange                                                                        -   57.0 6S3.1                   2P2%.4    0 O.



ANNEX 1
- 53 -                                                Table l
Page 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Costs
('000 D)
Base Costs                       Toreisr, E ch6r.se
No. of   ------------------------------------------_               --__
Unit       Unit Cost       Units    PY1       PY2      PY3      PY4      PT5    Total         1.    Amount
C. NEW IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS
1. IRRISATION CIVIL WORKS
DEEP WELL                                           IT          1.023-1.046      588   605.                                           605.8   64.8       392.7
PUMPING STATION                                     IT         1.029-1.059        52         -    31.6    17.6       4.4         -     53.6   43.6        23.4
ELECTRIFICATION                                     DT          1.023-1.046       178        -   172.4      3.4       0.8        -    184.5   64.8       119.6
CONVEYANCE AND STORAGE WORKS                       iDT         1.032-1.065       299         -   204.1    79.2    32.0           -    315.3   29.6         93.5
RE:PLACEMENT OF CANALS 1 PIPES                      DiT         1,025-1.051      728         -   330.5   190.8   230.5           -    751.8   59.7       448.9
HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES                                DT           1.03-1,061      103         -    46.8    37.1    23.0           -    106.9   39.6        42.3
Sub-Total IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS                                                            oO5.&   785.4   328.0   290.7           -  2P017.9   55.5  1120.4
Phssical Continsencies                                                              -    90.9   117.8    49.2    44.1            -    302.7   55.5       168.1
Price Contingencies                                                                 -    31.8   121.3    83.2   104.4            -    340.8   45.4        154.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                          728.5 1.024.5   460.4   447.9            -  2.661.4   54.2    i443.1
Taxes                                                                               -   174.8   224.3    96.0    92.0            -    587.1    0.0         0.0
Foreign E:chanse                                                                    -   468.8   513,4   221.3   239.6            -  1,443.1    0.0          0.0
2. ON-FARM AND OTHER WORKS
LEYELLING                                           HA         0.443-0.456       458         -    51.8    81.9    69.1           -    202.8   39.6         80.4
WINDIBREAKS                                         HA         0.726-0.819        43         -    10.9    11.6    10.6           -      33.0    9.8         3.2
DIRAINAGE WORKS                                     HA           1.03-1,061      117         -    28.5    50.6    41.7           -    120.8   39.6        47.9
INTERNAL ACCESS ROADS                               KM         0.515-2.122        24         -    12.5    14.4       6.5         -     33.4   39.6        13.2
Sub-Total ON-FARM AND OTHER WORKS                                                               -   103.8   158.5   127.8           -    390.1   37.1        144,7
Phasical Continsencies                                                              -        -    15.6    23.8    19.2           -     58.5   37.1        21,7
Price Continsencies                                                                 -        -    17.6    42.5    48.0           -    108.2   30.1         32.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                               -   137.0   224.8   195.0           -    556.8   35.7        198.9
Taxes                                                                               -        -    27.2    45.4    39.1           -    111.6    0.0          0.0
Foreisn Exchanse                                                                    -        -    48.4    81.1    69.5           -    198.9    0.0          0.0
Sub-Total NEW IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS                                                           605.8   889.2   486.5   426.5            -  2.408,0   52.5   1,265.1
Phusical Coritirigencies                                                               -    90.9   133.4    73.0    64.0            -    361.2   52.5        189.8
Price Contingencies                                                                    -    31.8   139.0   125.8   152.4            -    449.0   41.7        187.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                              728.5 1,161.6   685.2   643.0            -  3,218.2   51.O   1,642.1
Tax.es                                                                                 -   174.8   251.5   141.3   131.1            -    690.8    0.0          0.0
Foreisn Exchange                                                                       -   468.8   561.8   302.4   309.1            -  1,642.1    0.0          0.0
D. FEEDER ROADS
FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION                             KM    100.013-384.602          11   691.4 1,613.2          -        -        -  2.304.6   39.6        912.9
Sub-Total FEEDER ROADS                                                                         691.4 1,613.2         -        -         -  2,304.6   39.6       912.9
Physical Contingencies                                                                 -    69.1   161.3          -        -        -    230.5   39.6         9:.3
Price Contingencies                                                                    -    48.7   257.9          -        -        -    306.5   29.1         89.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                              809.2 2,032.4         -        -        -  2,841.6   38.5   1.C93.5
Taxes                                                                                  -   161.8   406.5          -        -        -    568.3    0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                       -   312.7   780.8          -        -        -  19093.5    0.0          0.0
E. IQUITMENT
FARM MACHINEFY                                        UNIT        1.024-10.039        94   235.5   124.0        0.?        -        -    368.2   59.7        220.0
EXTENSION EOUIPMENT                                   UNIT        0.103-12.113        48    11.8    53.2    22.4    10.1            -      97.5   49.7        48.4
RESEARCH EQUIPMENT                                    UNIT        0.308-2G.01        26        -    24,4    64.0          -        -      88.4   49.7        43,9
IRRIGATION SUPPORT UNIT PRIVATE WELLS                 UNIT         0.051-6,159        54    64.7    7.?           -        -        -    152.6   49.7         75,8
MARKETING CENTERS                                     UNIT        1.026-55.954   7,529        1.8    74.8       5.1     72.9      o.2    160.8   44.6         71,7
OTHER EQUIPMENT                                       UNIT         0.103-6.159        42    12.0    10.9        1.0      1.7        -      25.7   49.7        12.8
Suo-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                            325.9   375.1   101.3    84.,         6.2    893.1   52.9        472.6
Physical Contingencies                                                                 -    48.0    52.5    14.9         9.1      0.6    125.9  53.4          67.3
Frice Contisgencies                                                                    -    19.1    56.5    25.1    29.4          2.7    132.7  42.5          50.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                              393.9   404.2   141.3   123.1         9.6  1152.0   51.8        59.,3
Taxes                                                                                  -    93.9   118.5    36.4    29.1          2.5    280.3    0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                       -   221.5   246.9    69.1         3.4      4.6    596.3    0.0          0.0



ANNEX 1
-  54  -                                                  Table  1
Page 3
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Costs
( 000 D)
Base Costs                      toreixr,   ,,ar,se
Nofot   ---------------------------------------------?--- --
Unit       Unit Cost      Units    PYI       PY2      PY3      P74     PTh    Total        z      Asournt
F. IRRIGATION EOUIPMENT
1. IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
PUMPS                                              PT        1.024-36.856       31   137.7    24.1          -    10.2        -    172.0  59.8       102.8
HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT                                DT        0.154-24.008      125   138.2    99.4        1.4        -       -    239.1  59-8       142.9
PIEZOMETERS                                        DT                8.19       20        -        -    81.9    81.9         -    163.8  59.8        97.9
Sub-Total IRRIGATION REHABILITATION                                                      275.9   123.5    83.3    92.1           -    574.9  59.B       343.6
Physical Contingencies                                                           -    41.4    18.5    12.5    13.8           -      86.2  59,8       51.5
Price Contingencies                                                               -    15.2    17.6    19.6    30.9          -      83.4  53.6       44.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                        332.5   159.6   115.5   136.9           -    744.4  59.1       439.8
Taxes                                                                             -    86.5    41.5    30.0    35.6          -    193.6  00           0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                                  -   196.9    94.3    68.1    80.6          -    439.8   0-0        00
2. NEW IRRIGATION
PUMPS                                              DT         1.024-1.048      280        -   184.2    71.9    32.8          -    288.9  59.8       172.7
ELECTRICAL EQUIPHENT                               PT               1.048       28        -    29.5         -        -       -      29.5  59.8        17.6
CONVEYANCE EOUIPMENT                               DT               1.024       21        -        -      7,0    14.8        -      21.8  59.8       13.0
HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT                                OT         1.024-1.048       82        -    31.3    26.2    26.7          -      84.2  59.8       50.4
Sub-Total NEW IRRIGATION                                                                      -   245.0   105.0    74.3         -    424.4  59.8       253.7
Physical Contingencies                                                           -        -    36.8    15.8    11.1          -      63.7  59.8       38.1
Price Contingencies                                                              -        -    34.9    24.7    24.9          -      84.6  54.6       46.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                             -   316.7   145.5   110.4         -    572.6  59-0        337.9
Taxes                                                                             -       -    82.3    37.8    28.7          -    148.9   0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                                  -       -   187.1    85.8    65.0          -    337.9   0.0          0.0
3. DIM EQUIPMENT
CIVIL WORK MAINTENANCE                            UNIT        0.819-46.07       12   133.1    40.5          -       -        -    173.6  59.8       103.8
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE                             UNIT       1.071-25.595       12    77.6    76.3          -        -       -    153.9  59.8        92.0
_- - -    - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - _- -   - - -   - - - - - - - --_ _   _ _ 
Sub-Total DIM EQUIPMENT                                                                  210.7   116.B         -        -        -    327.5  59.8       195.8
Physical Contingencies                                                            -    31.6    17.5         -        -       -      49.1  59.8        29.4
Price Contingencies                                                               -    11.6    16.6         -        -       -      28.3  51.0        14.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                        253.9   151.0         -        -        -    404.9  59.2       239.6
Taxes                                                                             -    66.0    39.3         -        -       -    105.3   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                  -   150.4    89.2         -        -       -    239.6   0.0          0.0
Sub-Total IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT                                                              486.6   485.3   188.4   166.5           -  1,326.7  59.8       793,1
Physical Contingencies                                                               -    73.0    72.8    28.3    25.0           -    199.0  59.8       119.0
Price Contingencies                                                                  -    26.8    69.2    44.4    55.8           -    196.2  53.6       103.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                           586.4   627.2   261.0   247.3           -  1,722.0  59.1   1,017.3
Taxes                                                                                -   152.5   163.1    67.9    64.3           -    447.7   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                     -   347.3   370.6   153.9   145.5           -  1,017.3   0-0         0.0
G. VEHICLES
CARS                                                 UNIT       3.182-10.162        33    35.8    70.5    53.6    20.3           -    180.2  35.8        64.5
VAN                                                  UNIT               4.716       10     9.4    14.1    18.9        4.7        -     47.2  49.7        23.5
BUS                                                  UNIT              10.253        1        -    10.3        -        -        -     10.3  49.7         5.1
rPUCK                                                UNIT       4.101-14.354        14    24.1    15.9    38.4    20.0          -      98.4  49.7        49.0
-ITORCYCLES                                          UNIT          0.41-0.41        56      6.2    11.1      5.3      0.4        -     23.0  49.7        11.4
_-   -    - - - - -   - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - _ _-- - -
-Total VEHICLES                                                                            75.5   121.9   116.2    45.4           -    359.0  42.7       153.4
Physical Contingencies                                                               -      7.6    12.2    11.6       4.5        -     35.9  42.7        15.3
Price Contingencies                                                                  -      4.4    17.6    27.3    151           -     64.4  37.1        23.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                             87.5   151.7   155.1    65.1          -    459,4  41.9       192.7
Taxes                                                                                -    34.2    61.7    60.4    25.2           -    181.6   0-0         0-0
Foreign Exchange                                                                     -    37.2    62.0    65.8    27.6           -    192.7   0.0         0.0



-55 -                                                ANNX 
Table  1
TUNISIA                                                Page  4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Froject Costs
( 000 )                                 Base Costs                      Foreisg, E,chanse
No. of   -----------------------------------------_____     ___________-_
Unit      Unit Cost      Units    PYI       PY2      PY3     PY4      PY5    Total       1      Afmnount
H. STUDIES, TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              N/H              5.417       24    65.0    65.0        -        -        -    130.0  69.6        90.5
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANTS                            N/H       5.673-6.253        46    79.5   110.8    73.3    17.0          -    280.7  74.7      209.6
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                         144.6   175.8    73.3    17.0          -    410.7  73.1       300.1
Price Contingencies                                                             -     7.4    22.6    15.2       4.8        -     50.0  63.9       31.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                      152.0   198.4   B8.5    21.8           -    460.7  72.1      332.0
Taxes                                                                           -     2.8      3.0     3.3      3.5        -     12.6   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                                -   108.6   142.1    65.1    16.2          -    332.0   0.0        0.0
2. STUDIES
ROADS                                            UNIT     46.141-87.618         2   133.8        -        -       -        -    133.8  59.7       79.8
OTHERS                                           UNIT      5.686-81.953         7     8.5    14.2      5.7      5.7   104.7    138.8  59.7        82.9
Sub-Total STUDIES                                                                      142.3    14.2      5.7      5.7   104.7    272.6  59.7       162.8
Physical Contingencies                                                          -     0.9      1.4     0.6      0.6    10.5      13.9  59.7        8.3
Price Contingencies                                                             -     7.4      2.0     1.3      1.8    44.8      57.3  53.8       30.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                      150.6    17.6      7.6      8.1   159.9    343.8  58.7       201.9
Taxes                                                                           -    27.6      4.0     1,7      1.9    36.8      72.0   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                -    88.7    10.4      4.4      4.8    93.6    201.9   0.0         0.0
3. TRAINING
TRAINING ABROAD                                   M/H       0.003-1.024   1,634       8.4    17,8    16.5    16.5    16.5        75.9  79.7       60.5
LOCAL TRAINING                                    M/M        1.032-1.032       40     3.4      8.4     9.3      9.9    10.1      41.1  39.5       16.2
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                      11.9    26.2    25.8    26.5    26.7    117.0  65.6          76.7
Price Contingencies                                                             -     0.6      3.5     5.6      8.2    10.8      28.7  56.6       16.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                       12.5    29.6    31.5    34.6    37.5    145.7  63.8          93.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                                -     8.4    19.4    20.0    21.8    23.4        93.0   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total STUDIES , TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     298.7   216.2   104.8    49.2   131.4    800.2  67.4          539.6
Physical Contingencies                                                             -     0.9      1.4      0.6     0.6    10.5      13.9  59.7         8.3
Price Contingencies                                                                -    15.5    28.0    22.1    14.8    55.6    136.1  58.1           79.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                          315.1   245.6   127.5    64.5   197.4    950.1  66.0         626.9
Taxes                                                                              -    30.4      7.1      5,0     5.4    36.8      84,7   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                   -   205.7   171.9    89.5    42.7   117.0    626.9   0.0           0.0
I. ON-FARM INVESTMENTS
FARM MACHINERY                                      UNIT              7.678       50        -       -        -   192.0   192.0    383.9  59.8       229.5
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT                                UNIT        0.358-1.638   2,879   243.7   475.0   529.1   529.1   529.1  2,306.0  59.8   1,378.5
FRUIT TREE PLANTATION                               UNIT        0.104-1.038      391        -    56.7   231.6      4.6        -    292.9  16.2       47.5
LIVESTOCK INVESTMENTS                               UNIT        0.311-0.311   1,000    46.6    55.9    65.2    69.9    73.0    310.7  19.7            61.2
Sub-Total ON-FARM INVESTMENTS                                                             290.3   587.6   825.9   795.6   794.1  3,293.4  52.1   1,716.6
Price Contingencies                                                                -    15.3    77.8   184.2   236.6   310.8    824.7  47.4         390.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                          305.6   665.4 1,010.1 1,032.2 1t104.9  4,118.1  51.2   2,107.4
Taxes                                                                              -    71.4   146.4   218.9   252.9   270.2    959.9   0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                   -   160.7   334.4   439.3   566.8   606.1  2,107.4   0.0            0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                      3,857.7 5,996.6 2i920.5 2,049.5 1,020.0 15,844.3  50.6   8,012.8
Physical Contingencies                                                                -   452.7   689.9   293.0   175.4    24.3  1,635.3  49.8          B14.9
Price Contingencies                                                                   -   231.2   916.0   708.5   681.0   407.9  2,944.6  42.8   1,261.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                               4,541.6 7,6O2.5 3,922.0 2,905.9 1,452.2 20,424.2  49.4  10,089,2
Taxes                                                                                 -   998.2 1,627,3   848.2   655.3   343.1  4,472.1   0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                       - 2,419,0 3,571.8 1,837.2 1,446.1   015.2 10,089,2   0.0           0.0



ANNEX 1
- 56-                                            Table 
Page 5
TUNISIA
STAFF AP:PRAISAL. REPORT OF TIlE
CENTRAL TUNIISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
2L'ro ect Costs
' 000 3D)
Ease Costs                   Foreisn Exchange
No. of  - -- --------------------------------   ---___  -___
Unit     bit Cast    Units   PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4    PT5   Tdl               I     mount
-~~~~ -=---              =      -=======  ~-===-==  =_                        ; -
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL
ENGINEERS                                      H/Y        0.208-4.68      56   16.6   33.5   50.6   59.0   59.0   218.7  0.0            0.0
ASSOCIATE ENGINEERS                            M/Y       3.848-3.848      53    7.7   26.9   53.9   57.7   57.7   203.9  0.0            0,0
TECHNICIAN                                     H/Y       2,496-2.496      13    2.5    5.0    7,5    7.5   10.0    32.4  0.0            0.0
TECHNICAL ASSOCIATES                           H/Y       2.392-3.016      71   16.6   33.2   50.6   53.7   56.7   210.8  0.0            0.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS                           H/Y       0.208-2.912     176   20.7   86.7  110.8  130.4  133.3   498.0  0.0            0.0
PUMP ATTENDANT AND DITCH RIDERS                N/Y       1.248-2,496      51     3.0   15.5   21.1   21.1   21.1    82.7  0.0           0.0
CLERICAL HORKERS                               H/Y         1.56-2.08      49    0.9   12.5   23.9   25.8   25.0    88.9  0.0            0.0
NORKERS AND GUARDIANS                          N/Y       0.002-2.496  17,397   21,7   44.1   69.9   66.2   72.0   273.9  0.0            0.0
DRIVERS                                        H/Y       1.248-1.976     141   10.9   30.4   46.6   49.1   52.0   189.8  0,0            0.0
Sub-Total PERSONNEL                                                               109.5  287.8  442.9  470.5  488.4  1,799.1  0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                                                        -    9.8   51.6  121.1  176,6  237.1   596.2  0.0            0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 119.3  339.3  564.1  647.1  725.5  2,395.4  0.0          0.0
Taxes                                                                      -    7.2   20.4   33.8   38.8   43.5   143,7  0.0            0.0
B. OUG CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                                 DT/YEAR                       -       -    4.7   10.6   14.1   14.2    43,6  44.0         19.2
RIND HAINTENANCE                             DT/YEAR    0.257-0.257      325    2.8    7.7   21.6   30.1   21.3    83.5  43.7          36.5
Sub-Total DIN CIVIL WORKS                                                          2.8   12.4   32.2   44.2   35.6   127.1  43.8          55.6
Phbsical Contingencies                                                     -    0.3     1.2    3.2    4.4       3.6    12.7  43.8       5.6
Price Continsencies                                                        -    0.2    1.9    7.9   15.3   16.1    41.3  37.7          15.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  3.3   15.5   43.3   63.8   55.3   181.2  42.4          76.8
Taxes                                                                      -    0.9    4.0   11.3   16.6   14.4    47.1  0.0             0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -    1.4    6.6   18.4   27.0   23.3    76.8  0.0             0.0
C. OGI EGUIPHENT
FAMN HACHINERY                                DT/YR      0.004-0,004  15,000    17.2   22.1   22.1        -       -    61.5  59.8      36.7
EXTENSION EO3IPNENT                           DT/YR      0.004-2.051   3,387   24.3   66.0   95.5  105.8  113.9   405.6  49.7    201.7
RESEARCH EQUIPMENT                            DT/YR      1.026-1.026      54      -    4.5   15.1   17.3   18.6    55.4  49.7           27.6
MARKETING CENTERS                             DT/YR      1.027-1.541      22    4.6    4.6    7.5    7.7   10.4    34.8  49.7           17.31
IRRIGATION SUPPORT UNIT -PUBLIC SCREHES       DT/YR      3.18-20.514       9   20.5   23.7   23.7   23.7   23.7   115.3  49.7          57.3
IRRIGATION SUPPORT ONIT - PRIVATE HELLS       DT/YR     2.975-10.667       9    15.1   21.0    3.0        -       -    39.1  49.7       19.4
OTHER EQUIPHENT                               DOT/YR     0.103-0.821      33    0.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5          6.6  49.7       3.3
Sub-Total OIH EWOIPHENT                                                            02.2  143.5  168.4  156.0  160.2   710.3  50.6    363.3
Phnsical Contingencies                                                     -    0.2   14.3   16.8   15.6   16.8    71.8  50.6           36.3
Price Contingencies                                                        -    4.7   20.5   39.4   51.9   73.5   190.0  44.7           84.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 95.2  178.3  224.6  223.5  258.5   980.1  49.4    404.5
Taxes                                                                      -   26.0   51.3   64.6   65.9   75.9   284.6   0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                           -   48.7   09.9  112.4  108.5  125,1   484.5   0.0            0.0
D. OG,H VEHICLES
CARS                                          DT/YR      0.923-1.539     140    8.5   20.0   34.5   34.5   36.3   133.7  49.7           66.5
VANS                                          DT/YR      0.923-0.923      27    0.5    3.2    6.5    7.4    7.4    24.9  49.7           12.4
BUS                                           DT/YR            1.026       4      -    1.0    1.0    1,0    1.0          4,1  49.7       2.0
TRUCKS                                        DT/YR      2.051-2.051      19    2.1    4.1   10.3   10.3   12.3    39,0  49.7           19.4
MOTORCYCLES                                   DT/YR      0.092-0.092     212     1.3    3.4    4.9    5.0    5.0    19.6  49.7           9.7
Sub-Total GIN VEHICLES                                                             12.3   31.0   57.1   50.1   62.0   221.3  49.7    110.0
Phbsical CGntingencies                                                     -     1.2    3.2    5.7    5.8    6.2    22.1  49.7          11.0
Price Contingencies                                                        -    0.7    4.6   13.4   19.3   27.1    65.0  44.5           28.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  14.2   39.5   76.2   83.2   95.3   308.4  48.6    150.0
Taxes                                                                      -    4.3   11.9   22,9   25.0   28.6    92.5   0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                           -    7.0   19.3   37.1   40,4   46.2   150.0   0.0            0,0
Total RECIRRENT COSTS                                                                206.8  475.4  700.6  728,8  754.2  2,865.8  10.5    529.0
PhFssical Contingencies                                                        -    9.7   10.8   25.0   25,B   26.6   106.7  49.6           52.9
Price Contingencies                                                            -   15.4   70.5  101.8  263.0  353,   092.6  14.5    129.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                        232.0  572,7  908.2 1,017.6 1,134.6  3,865.1  18.4    711.3
Taxes                                                                          -   39.1   87.5  132.6  146.3  162.4   560.0   0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                               -   57.0  115.8  167,9  176.0  194.6   711.3   0.0            8.0
Total DASELINE COSTS                                                                4,064.5 6,472.1 3,621.1 2,778.3 1,774.2 18,710.1  45.7  8,541.8
Phssical Continsencies                                                          -  462.5  708.6  318.7  201,2   50.9  1,741.9  49.8    867.8
Price Contingencies                                                             -  246.6  994.5  890.3  944,0  761.7  3,037.3  36.2  1,391.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                 4,773.6 8,175.2 4,830.2 3,923.5 2,586.8 24,289.3  44.5  10,800.5
Taxes                                                                           - 1,037.3 1,714.8  980.8  801,6  505.5  5,040.0    0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                - 2,476.0 3,687.6 2,005,0 1.622,0 1,009.8 10,800.5   0.0      0.0



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(! Million)
IBRD Fiscal              Disbursement during          Cummulative Disbursement
Year                     Semester                     At End of Semester
FY84
First Semester                 0.4                          0.4
Second Semester                o.8                          1.2
FY85
First Semester                  1.4                         2.6
Second Semester                1.8                          4.4
FY86
First Semester                  1.8                         6.Z
Second Semester                2.2                          8.4
FY87
First Semester                 2.0                         10.4
Second Semester                1.5                         11.9
FY88
First Semester                  1.5                        13.4
Second Semester                1.3                         14.7
FY89
First Semester                  1.0                        15.7
Second semester                o.8                         16.5
/1 The schedule assumes that the Bank Loan would become effective in
September 1983.



-58-                                                                         ANNEX II
Table I
TUNISIA
STJFA APPRAISAL EPORT OF THE
CENTRAI, TUNISIA IRRMIATION PROJECT
Pfocuresent
ongoing Contracts                                                   Total
Amount                      TM33            1984           19B5            1986             1989                      NumSber of
'000 DT        Method of             PYI            PY2              PY3              PY4             PY5               Contracts
ORIVAK   ODTC   Pocuresent        OHIVAK  ODTC  O3RIVAK  ODTC   OHIVAl  ODTC   OHIVAlt ODTC   OMIVAX  ODTC              OMIVAK  ODTC
A. Constructions
Offices, Marketing Centers,
Lodging                          828.7   186.8       LCB             1       1      1        1       1       1        _      _        _       _             2      2
B. Irrigation Rehabilitation
Civil Works
Deep well                           110.6   110.6       ICB              I      1      1        1       -       -        -       -        -      _1                    1
Electrification                     106.1    32.1       DP (STEG)        I      I      -        -        -      -        -       -        -      -             I       I
Supply of Canals                    694.3   287.0       DP               I      1      1        -       -            -       -            -      -             2       1
Network Repair and Reconst.    1,345.3   355.1          LCB              I      I      1        1        1      1        1       _        _      _             2      2
Reservoirs                          307.2      -        LCB              1      -      1        -       -       -        -       -                             I _    -
Land-levelling                      229.1      -        FA                          -           -           -        -       -       -                         -      -
Windbreaks                          231.3   113.6       FA               I      I      1        1        1      1        1       1               -             1       1
Internal Roads                        -        4.9      FA                                              -        -       -       -       -                     -      -
Reserve Deep Wells                  478.8   318.1       ICE             -       -      1                 1      1        1       -        1      -             4      2
Drainage Works                        -       23.9      FA               -                                                                                            -
C. New Irrigation Civil Works
Deep Well                           535.4   310.2       ICB              1      1      -        -        -      -        -       -        -      -             I       I
Pumping Station                      34.8    63.0       LCB              -      -      1        1        -       1       -       1        -      -             1       3
Electrification                      92.5   191.8       DP (STEG)        -      -      I        1        -       1       -       1        -                    1       3
Network Construction                182.5 1,234.1       LCR             -       -      I        I        I      I                I I             -             1      3
Internal Roads                       16.0    66.9       LCB             -       -      I        I        I      1        -       I        -      -             1      3
Windbreaks                           13.9    32.4       FA               -      -      I        1        1       1       _       I        -      -             1       3
Levelling                           120.2   162.4       LCB              -      -      I        I        I      I        -       I        -      -             1       3
Drainage Works                       51.1   115.8       LCB              -      -      I        I        I       I       -       I        -      -             1       3
D. Feeder Roads                      1,431.6 1,690.8       LCB              1       1     1        1        _      _        _       _        _       _            I       I
E. Equipment
Far Machinery                       327.2   135.7       ICB              I      I      -        -        I      -        -       -        -      -             2       1
Other Equipment                     384.6    28.1       ICE              -      -      3        1            -           -       -        -      -             3       1
F. Irrigation Equipment
Pumping Equipment                   320.2   376.3       ICE              1      1      1        1        -       1       -       1        -      -             2      4
Maintenance, Repair,
Support PS                       374.3   211.6       ICB             1       1      1        1       -       -                                -             I      I
Pipes and Hydr. Equip.              350.9   969.8       ICB              I      1      2        1        -       1       _       1         _                  3      4
Piezometers                         239.9      -        FA               -      -      -        -        I      -        1       -        -      -             I      -
C. Vehicles
Cars and Mopeds                     207.3   135.8       ICB/LCB          3      3      -        -        -      -        -       -        -1                           1
H. Studies                              175.9    48.5      CONS.            2       1     -        -        -       -        -      -        -       -            2       1
DP - Direct Purchase
DRES - Direction des Ressources en En. et Sols
STEG - Socidte Tunisienne d'Electricitd et de Gaz
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
FA - Force Account
DF - Direction des ForAts
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
CONS. - Consultants



'-.4:                                                    =, :, 4      ,04                                                  ,
~~~~~~~~~~0                                   4.   4   ,:0,00,    _0  '4    0           _      4      44,                44      00 a  
e~~~ ~              ~~~~                   i1  a, U>2 .r_-           >;;' 0U                                            40   4  ,4, |^ 
X c     ~    04.0= .=,u,c,u0c.44.   -4,0 C4=4- 4,0                            0           0      0 Hc 4,
40    0           4.40.            4.     4.-  CO04040                  0   -4.S      - 44444.         0.4
4,-4044          040.04   444.,   0-  040,                          0- 40.                   00  4,.    0         anu'   
44.4___________________________________________________'
r~~~~~~~~~                                              4.tZ t4,0t
w     Hoo.-4,oo                          - -i .4..,.,.,,4,40.,.4.. 0--;        0fi  -   ,o,~404. --X    --e004               mzZ  
., C-                                                                                  >4   4tk' N               
'= ~  ~      ~     ~    4    .4 =>ao   a,. 0444    .0.0  r 'YJ
4444     44  44  4,    44        444    4                   44        44444444        4444 4444.
4.    0 0 0 0 00C      C      <0          00 y. .                   4.     0     0           4.004.0004.9    =- ^ X
0                      , X ,,  ,44 4.. 0 .      0 = 4 =       444,.       4404 C      04  .         4-4C4O4O O =  43
_o  44.                                                                                                                                   ^XCC ,XXCXX XX1o eXOSJs      
44~~                                                                                   ~~~ U                                                        0            ,OOO                    A0    
>4~  ~~~ 0                                                                    I                                                                      0   iOQOnO3\z3XXSX     , A ,w *          
-I-                                               40nJnO4 D~4                                                                  0                  



:  t;  c o ~ :W - .o -   
00         00 .u       - =       .0 =00                                                                         0                   I .         )  0  
~~~~~~Z 0 0 0 . . 0 0 0 0 0                                                                                   000.                                                     I      0. .0=0.>    D>   
~~ ~ U                                             U  U     U                                                    _     U 0U000 00.0 U.bo 0000                         'j          U.0
:0 0 00 0~                     00                            00000. O0 0                                                      00000..):      :
00000           00 c          0000                                 0. o4000000 o00.u    ^000c00 ^                                       00c.^         0c
00 H0w0 =.0          .000 00.         0             u0c0::0.00000:0.o0 c0. 00 0 .                                                      . 0        0        0o0
.4.=,/oO''0.00.0.0                                00      .00   c00...0                   00 0          0000..0.0                      N  00=404u  03.0o
00000.0..00X0000                                 000      0000        00    0.:0:000                     <000)0000 g                     00.00y 0oe0H000.000.0g0  e  e  o= 
t                   o 00 00-                                                                                 .     f   f           f       f  f         f   
cl O u_ C ::- :,  n c  < =  000.000u  ::00                                                                               00.-  ut'  : u 0
0          00u  c          0. o             000            .4 c-.-                  00c0044 030 04 4                                              0.4)0000.4.40 ^  v H"       H   wcz        | H^  Wc 
~~~~~~~ @000   :                       f                                                                                        O==@o.        
0.~ ~~ 0c XF>x=SaBxm$X :X=x>mxo
0~~1 00       -.  . ............ ....
a ...... ....o 1  o v oo_> vSona wx< r
00 0.ff .00 -                                                                       f-vtL--FLhrhhh
X~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~fh _                                                                                                                                           0)00 x 
= = ~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                       .0 u.(0S 
0-                   o                                                                      :I  I                         uX 
oki ~      ~                v                                                                                                                                                                         "0.00rI>>         S i >H   
00    0 :   0.                                                                             000         33             3     l=  '): C:  
H  9  o      ^ :oC  o C  w C XS   A    o   . C                  LH                                                                                 0.:   =000000   oWoo 
00     o u                                                                                              L II.    a        ^c=^c    
00        II                                                                           c  .                                                                                0.   c*  oo J0000=00   uuo    Zuu 
_00                             3                        00                    _I                                                                 o0         -o-      .0o0    X-g 
00                               -I                                                    0000        00                                                                           00     000\.0U0_0=QDS       4   t  =4~CU
u c"     33       3     33                                                                 II   Ioa   cvoa F       saW>y
0_.0     ^                                                                                                                                                                        0      0"O03.... ..................... ............ 
0                                                                        [j         ;                                                                                             0      000060. o  _  d_  sr      D-  R   -



- 61 -                      ANNEX IV
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Tunisia
A.1 World Bank: Tunisia - Agricultural Sector Survey Vol I and II
A.2                          June 10, 1982 - Report No 3876-TUN
B.  Reports and Studies Relating to The Project
B.1 World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program - Projet d'Irrigation en Tunisie
Centrale; 3 volumes; April 1982
B.2 SCET-TUNISIE
Creation de Perimetres Irrigues en Tunisie Central, May 1982
Vol 1:  Henchir Jefra
Vol 2:  Feriana
Vol 3:  Ain Hdia
Vol 4:  Mzira I
Vol 5:  Mzira II
B.3 A. Portieri:
Projet d'Irrigation en Tunisie Centrale - Composante Credit,
August 1982
B.4 H. Attia:
Participation des Agriculteurs 'a la Gestion des P6rimbtres Publics
Irrigues dans la Tunisie Centrale; August 1982
B.5 Alfred S. Waldstein:
Central Tunisia Small and Medium Scale IrrigationProject: Report
on the Marketing Component, July 1982
C.  Selected Working Papers
Annex V:      Water Resources Management in Central Tunisia Region
Annex VI:     Rehabilitation of PPI - Description of Works
Annex VII:    Water Use and Needs
Annex VIII:   Monitoring of Groundwater
Annex IX:     Workshop Reinforcement
Annex X:      Extension Service



- 62 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 2
Annex XI:      Establishment of a pilot area to test integration of
rainfed and irrigated agriculture
Annex XII:    Mechanized Farming Units
Annex XIII:   OMIVAK Applied Research Center
Annex XIV:    Livestock
Annex XV:      Credit and Input Supply
Annex XVI:    Water Users' Association
Annex XVII:   Marketing Component
Annex XVIII:  Project Cost Tables
Annex XIX:    Feeder Roads Component
Annex XX:      Farm Budgets
Annex XXI:    Cost Recovery
Annex XXII:   Economic Analysis and Justification
Annex XXIII:  Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
Annex XXIV:   Cost Tables



IBRO 16644
B                                                                                                                                   II                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 1982
E' (!           LE KE            _    \    v                      X                 \  . .                      | lo                                                                   TUNISIA
)  / \  <   SILIANA           ,/,, -    4UED>KTUM                                                   SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE
IRRIGATION PROJECT
-36 LIE    K E F \ / Y k / \ I  s10                                                                                                                                                  IFNTEGRATETD DFVELOME NT I E I O TSC HEME I
36'                         LL E         LI                                                                                                                                                                                                                 36 
(M\ 2 tAKTAR J                                                                                                                     KR < 2 g SHALLOW AQUIFERS
AGRICULTURAL SU-DIVISIOLN
0                                      To SOUSSE                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N EW MA RKETI NG CE NTE R
MAR IETING CE NTER TO BE EQJ IPPED
A   PPI~ TO BEl CREATED
* PITO BE REHABILITATED
Sbi  AT   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                   NEW EXTENSION CENTER CGIV)
*   EXTENNION CENTE R EN NE COMPLETE D
APPLIED RESEARCH CENTER
MAIN ROADS
-|l  -   -- ~NIMPROVED GRAVEL ROADS
PROJECT ROADS - KS 1 PASSERINE KR 6 'AIRTUAN
IA      GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
G  OVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
;;2: : 0.:: {F0RIANA  "
G P   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~K-INTERNATIOINAL BOSLNDAIU,
0            20            40            60
-35'                            <               t X              SI DI   BOUZID                            X           8           5fpL                              I   '   'Kiloemeters                '                            35 F
-  14                                                                                                                                   I fTAL
MEDITERRANEAWNINII
oPMh Gd-ar f Ire f report 0  he,0 I t ttthd, ThE dtnommt  -rsod -rd Uth  AL GERIA
.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
9 /l\GoA'F   S    A                                                       \       tictlXlates, knf jutsmerit on the egf eeseur ofrtnv ADtrrr  OCo r r nV epd r moo orIY
B                                                               R'                                                    S        10              ' K r                                          117                                  



