Document of                          j-iLFCOEY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE, ONLY
Report No. P-344G-TUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOWN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 3, 1933
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (DT)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate used
in the Staff Appraisal Report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US$1.00 = DT.555
DT 1.00 = US$1.80
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT      -     National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
DGPC     -      Highway Department of the Ministry of Equipment (Direction
Generale des Ponts et Chaussees)
ODTC     -     Central Tunisia Development Agency (Office de Ddveloppement de
la Tunisie Centrale)
OMIVAK   -      Kairouan Irrigation Development Agency (Office de Mise en
Valeur des Perimetres Irrigues de Kairouan)
PPI      -     Public Irrigation Perimeter (Perimetre Public Irrigue)
PS       -      Shallow Well (Puit de Surface)
USAID    -      US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:  Central Tunisia Development Agency (ODTC); Irrigation Office
of Kairouan (OMIVAK)
Amount:         US$ 16.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:          17 years, including four years of grace, at the Standard
variable interest rate
Project
Description:    The project is designed to increase agricultural production,
farm incomes and employment in Central Tunisia, one of the
least developed areas of the country. It consists of invest-
ments in: irrigation infrastructure; farm access roads;
credit; the support services of ODTC and OMIVAK; aquifer
monitoring equipment; a pilot livestock development program
and animal production suppcrt services; studies for future
investments in the project area; training; and technical
assistance. About 12,000 families would benefit overall, and
about 1,500 additional jobs would be created. Improved
marketing infrastructure and information systems to be
provided under the project would minimize the risk of
temporary over-supplies of fruits and vegetables with
accompanying falls in prices; improvements to the Offices'
maintenance units, involvement of farmers in maintenance,
increased water charges anc. improved budgeting procedures for
maintenance would assure that the rehabilitated irrigation
systems are maintained; differential water charges for winter
and summer would encourage maximum use of these systems
throughout the year; and the experience of the Offices, the
strengthening they would receive and the simplicity of project
activities would minimize celays in implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
Estimated Project Costs;                  Local           Foreign           Total
_ _ _    $US Millio …-------------
Irrigation Rehabilitation                    3.6              3.1               6.7
New Irrigation Schemes                       2.4               2.7              5.1
On-farm Investments                          2.8               3.1              5.9
Research and Extension                       3.5              2.0               5.5
Roads and Buildings                          2.9               2.0              4.9
Institutional Development                    3.1              2.5               5.6
and Technical Assistance
Base Cost                              18.3             15.4             33.7
Physical Contingencies                  1.6              1.5              3.1
Price Contingencies                     4.4              2.5              6.9
Total Project Cost                     24.3             19.4             43.7
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan              -                0.1              0.1
Total Financing Required               24.3 1/          19.5             43.8 1/
Financing Plan-.                          Local          Foreign          Total
-------------$US Million-------------
Bank                                        -              16.5            16.5
Government                                  19.7             -              19.7
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)              1.8             3.0             4.8
Farmers                                     2.8              -              2.8
Total                          24.3             19.5           43.8
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY 1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
…S-1--------------$US Million---------------
Annual                           1.2     3.2      4.0     3.5      2.8      1.8
Cumulative                       1.2     4.4      8.4    11.9    14.7    16.5
Economic Rate of Return.          16 percent
Staff Appraisal Report;           No. 4128-TUN, dated January 3, 1983
Map No.: 16644
1/ Including $9.0 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENI OF IhE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REE'UBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$16.f million equivalent to help finance
a Central Tunisia Irrigation Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.75 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at the standarcl variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. Economic aissions
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March .982 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex 1. 2/
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rain.all.  Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are ap?roaching depletion, and the
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new reserves, although it is too early to assess
their exact potential. There is also considerable tourism potential, and
efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined fromn 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the
Government. Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased
only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.
Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a
consequence, the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981
exceeds the level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I from President's Report No.
3429-TUN of November 30, 1982, for a Fifth Education Project.
2/ Country data have been updated on the basis of this review, and thus
sometimes differ from the Country Data sheets.



- 2 -
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected mainly because of the slump in European markets. By contrast,
manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy, phosphate
processing, construction, and construction materials expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand,
particularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained
favorable from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace
than exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply
higher post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap
remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76
percent of investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP
for 1972-76 to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged
$450 million per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and
private investments (mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent,
while the remainder was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus,
during the 1970s total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the
debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and
redistributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were
equivalent to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one
of the highest shares among middle-income countries.  Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including for social security accounted for 19
percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.2
percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of
some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil
refinery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments, both foreign
and national, exceeded Plan targets.



- 3 -
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.
11.      Mediumrterm Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. Ihe main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and electrical and
mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and grcwth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging.
Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields
that recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil
and gas production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual
level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent; until the end of the decade.
However, barring large new oil or gas disccveries, and given the rapid rise in
domestic demand for energy, Tunisia will hcove to face the consequences of a
relative decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the
situation requires immediate policy changes: and is analyzing the most urgent
ones to be included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time,
Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate is in
line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports (tourism,
textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compensate for
the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brought about by oiL price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the exl:ernal account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particuLarly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan
period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices
relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A maajor objective is to correct recent
capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium
manufacturing enterprises in the underdeve].oped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the
incentive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to
offer free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new



- 4 -
projects in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and
Household Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient
technical and financial management of the public and private modern sector,
the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an
expanded network of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are
planned for 1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and
should alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of
public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government
recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism,
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured
goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some
rural zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor
agricultural performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and
the interior (West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and
subsidies as well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact.
The Government is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of
poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could,
however, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving
their relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs
of the poor and rural groups.



19.      Public health services are second among social expendicures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and
nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs
will be directed to the neediest population groups. The housing demand from
households above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the
private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt. As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was providei by public sources at relatively
soft terms.  During the 1977-80 period, for.eign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent oE which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $608 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1.2 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export revenues in
1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve publiz sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and
creditworthiness.  This objective is even more crucial if the country is to
succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in
the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have
gained momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities
in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in



- 6 -
manufacturing. Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to
about $200 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total
investments for 1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15
percent of total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent
to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks
(para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.
The Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the
implementation of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA 1/
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-four loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,108.3 million and $70.0
million (net of cancellations) of which thirty-one loans and credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of September 30, 1982, overall disbursements amounted to 53
percent of appraisal estimates, which compares favorably with other countries
in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance
and port projects has generally been above the country average, while larger
than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project
specific problems that are being addressed through supervision missions and
sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors or
subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population
groups; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in
the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and
advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the
use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and the Technical Assistance
Project (para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II from President's Report No.
3429-TUN of November 30, 1982, for a Fifth Education Project.



- 7 -
to increase the mobilization of domestic resDurces, and to secure cofinancing
Eor the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of
the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 29 percent of Bank/IDA coumitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 32
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 22 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 17 percent of total commitments.  In addition, earlier this fiscal
year, the Bank made a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving
the Government's capability for project identification and preparation.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed irrigation project, proposed future lending would
include projects in agriculture, industry and mining, energy, health, water
supply and urban sewerage.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector workc will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector b)ase for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this
issue was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No.
3399-TUN of September 15, 1981). The analy3is is pursued in more depth in a
Plan Review Report and an Urban Sector Survey, both to be issued in early
1983, as well as in a recent Agricultural Sector Survey (Report No. 387b-TUN
of September 29, 1982). Further economic and sector work will include a review
of employment issues, of incentive and pricing policies (in association with
the study on effective protection), of the long-term energy strategy and of
the education, transport, and small scale industry sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980.  Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 9
percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
is expected to remain at about 10 percent and their share in the debt service
to increase to about 13 percent through 1986.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in IDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliare RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net coimitments in Tunisia totalled $10.6



- 8 -
million, as of September 30, 1982. IFC has recently arranged a $40 million
loan package to COFIT, of which about $20 million equivalent for IFC's own
account, and is looking into the possibility of loans for the expansion of a
phosphoric acid fertilizer plant arnd of technical assistance to the recently
established development banks.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Development
32.      Tunisia's population is about 6.5 million (1981), of which almost
half lives in rural areas. While still playing an important role in Tunisia's
economy, agriculture's relative share has declined (24 percent of GDP in 1960
to 13 percent in 1981) mainly due to a more rapid expansion of industry,
mining and petroleum. Agriculture provided less than 35 percent of total
employment in 1981, against 56 percent in 1960; its share of exports dropped
from 57 percent in 1960 to less than 10 percent in 1981. Of Tunisia's total
area of 16.4 million ha, land suitable for agriculture and grazing totals 8.4
million ha. Out of some 250,000 ha which could be irrigated, about 160,000 ha
are presently irrigable and about 120,000 ha are effectively irrigated.
33.      Among the primary objectives for agriculture of the Fifth Plan
(1977-81), which emphasized investment in irrigation, livestock and fanr
machinery, were increased rural incomes, economic growth, self-sufficiency in
food, defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricultural products, and
employment generation. The agricultural sector performed well; agricultural
value added increased by 2.9 percent per year in real terms, contributing to
continued growth in average per capita income in agriculture, which increased
from $173 (in 1979 $) in the early 1960s to $380 in 1979. However, the goal
of food self-sufficiency was not achieved. For most commodities, production
targets had been overestimated, given the constraints on Tunisian agriculture
(scarcity of land and water). Expanding domestic demand, caused by population
growth coupled with higher per capita income, surpassed production growth and
the agricultural trade balance worsened. With regard to its employment
generation objective, the Plan resulted in little additional agricultural
employment, since the impact of employment-generating investments was offset
by employment-replacing investment in farm mechanization.
34.      During the Sixth Plan (1982-86) period, the Government's major
objectives will continue to be reducing unemployment and regional income
imbalances and promoting exports. Since this must be achieved at the same
time that the country adjusts to an expected decline in economic growth and
financial resources as it enters the post-hydrocarbon era, the Government
intends to i) shift its investment strategy from large, capital-intensive
projects to small- and medium-scale labor-intensive projects in such areas as
agriculture, manufacturing and housing construction; and ii) create an
appropriate policy environment, for example by removing credit constraints for
small enterprises and farmers and by introducing realistic prices for
agricultural products. The distribution of investments in the Sixth Plan
reflects the above; agriculture will receive 19 percent of total investment,
as opposed to 14 percent under the Fifth Plan, and within agriculture, the
share of capital-intensive subsectors (irrigation, farm machinery) will
decline and that of more labor-intensive subsectors (livestock, fruit tree
plantations) will increase. The Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project



will facilitate the preparation of high priority projects and lay the
groundwork for policy reforms and institutional improvements needed to bring
this program to fruition. It will prepare national programs for, inter alia,
improvement of operation and maintenance of irrigation systems, improvement of
marketing and input supply, land reform, and research and extension.
Sector Organization
35.      Overall responsibility for agricultural planning and development lies
with the Ministry of Agriculture. Agricultural services are organized at the
provincial level in Regional Agricultural Development Commissions. In
addition, semi-autonomous special development agencies (Offices) have been
created to handle specific agricultural activities (for example, the Livestock
Office) or projects, mainly those concerned with irrigation or with particular
development strategies to be implemented in well-defined areas. With regard
to the areas to be developed under the propcsed project, the Kairouan
Irrigation Development Agency (OMIVAK) mana;es irrigated areas in the
Governorate of Kairouan, and the Central Turisia Development Agency (ODTC) is
responsible for integrated rural development in the Governorate of Kasserine
and parts of the Governorates of Siliana and Gafsa. OMIVAK and ODTC both
handle enforcement of agrarian reform measures, provision, operation and
maintenance of irrigation infrastructure, supply of agricultural inputs,
distribution and sale of water for irrigation, and provision of extension
services.
Sector Issues Relevant to the Project
36.      Irrigation.  Irrigation has contributed significantly to the rapid
growth of Tunisian agriculture. However, although the Irrigation Offices are
efficient in executing construction works, water in public irrigation
perimeters is often underutilized due to poor management, land ownership
disputes and absenteeism, frequent problems with irrigation equipment and
unavailability of water, especially at certain times of the year. The
Irrigation Offices are not submitted to significant financial discipline to
induce efficiency. Water charges are not high enough to cover operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs and Government budget allocations often fall short of
meeting this deficit; the systems therefore deteriorate. The diversion of the
Offices' staff resources to such activities as distribution of credit and
inputs, marketing, research and extension also contributes to poor O&M. In
addition, farmers with private shallow wells have been neglected in the
provision of support services. While total investment in irrigation will
decline under the Sixth Plan (para. 34), the Government intends to focus on
intensifying the development of existing irrigated areas. The proposed
project would contribute to this effort in Central Tunisia through i)
improving management systems; ii) improving maintenance programs; iii)
applying existing land reform legislation; iv) increasing water charges; v)
reducing the activities of the Offices by iavolving farmers in managing the
perimeters and the private sector in providing support services, and vi)
extending agricultural support services to farmers with private shallow wells.
37.      Prices and Subsidies.  In an effort to keep food prices down for
urban consumers, the Government has followed a policy of fixing farm-gate
prices for many products at an artificially low level, and compensating
producers with input subsidies.  However, these subsidies have benefitted only



- 10 -
a minority of farmers (mostly higher income) and only certain crops, therefore
leading to distortions in production patterns and input use, as well as to
waste of underpriced inputs. The Government recognizes the negative resource
allocation and income distribution effects of its policy and is moving to
bring prices of inputs and outputs more in line with their real value to the
economy. Recent increases in the producer prices for milk and cereals, the
reduction of subsidies on livestock feed and gradual increases of water
charges are examples. The proposed project would contribute to this effort by
substantially increasing water charges, assuring that inputs and machinery
services are provided efficiently and at cost to the farmers, and encouraging
private sector involvement in their provision.
38.      Marketing and Input Supply.  In Tunisia, public agencies handle most
marketing and input supply activities. They are slow to respond to market
signals and to introduce cost-saving methods or consumer-satisfying
innovations; farm inputs are often not available in sufficient quantities when
they are needed. These issues will be addressed under the proposed project
through investments in marketing infrastructure, assistance to cooperatives to
take over some of these activities, promotion of contracts between growers and
processors and improvement of the accounting and pricing systems of the
Offices' input supply services with a view to making them more efficient.
39.      Land Tenure.  Major land tenure issues in Tunisia include skewed
distribution of private land, fragmentation of individual farms, lack of land
titles establishing land ownership, lack of security of land tenure for tenant
farmers, a high incidence of absentee land ownership and the tenciency for
collectively-owned land to be poorly managed and over-exploited. While reform
has been discussed for many years, action has been slow and generally confined
to public irrigation perimeters. The proposed project would encourage land
consolidation in existing perimeters to be rehabilitated, and would assure
implementation of land reform legislation in new perimeters prior to starting
irrigation.
40.      Credit.  Agricultural credit is provided primarily by the National
Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The Offices also provide short-term in-kind credit in
irrigation perimeters. Major credit issues include: Low loan recovery; lack
of agricultural staff at BNT; lack of land titles for most farms, preventing
them from obtaining long-term credit; centralization of loan decisions,
resulting in an excessively long approval process; interest rates lower than
inflation (current BNT rates are 6 percent to small and medium farmers and
production and service cooperatives, and 7 percent to commercial farmers,
while inflation was 9 percent in 1981 and is projected at 10 percent for 1982,
9 percent for 1983 and 8 percent thereafter); and the small number of farmers,
especially small-scale farmers, receiving credit. The Thiird Agricultural
Credit Project is addressing priority credit problems (para. 43). In
addition, legislative action simplifying procedures for obtaining land titles
has resulted in improvements in the provision of agricultural credit. The
Government is planning to establish a specialized agricultural lending
institution, but its precise role and effect on current institutional
arrangements are yet to be defined,
41.      Extension and Research.  Agricultural extension and research in
Tunisia do not function well. Extension is generally inadequate because
extension messages are often not appropriate or are contradictory, the work of



- 11 -
extension agents is not systematic or well-maaagea, and extension agents are
not trained in communication techniques.  In view of these shortcomings,
Bank-financed rural development and rural roads operations have included
components to improve extension services in project areas. Agricultural
research in Tunisia suffers from a lack of clear priorities and staff, is too
theoretical and not focussed on providing solutions to practical problems, and
has little contact with extension services. The proposed project's efforts to
strengthen extension and research in Central Tunisia would be carefully
coordinated with the master plan for research and extension to be developed
under the Technical Assistance Project.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
42.      Bank group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and to
date, twelve projects have been approved for a total of $256.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include four irrigation projects. the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project in the Medjerda and Nebhana areas (Loan 1068, December
1974), the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project, the first stage of a development
program for the northern water resources of l:he country (Loan 1431, July
1977), the Southern Irrigation Project, aimed at rehabilitating oases and
creating new date palm plantations in southern Tunisia (Loan 1796, February
]L980), and the Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project, a follow-up to
the previous project in these areas (Loan 2157, June 1982); two Fisheries
Projects (Credit 270, September 1971; and Loan 1746, July 1979); a Cooperative
Farm Project (Loan 484/Credit 99, February 1967); three Agricultural Credit
Projects (Loan 779/Credit 263, July 1971; Loan 1340, December 1976; and Loan
1885, August 1980); a Rural Development Project for the Northwest Region (Loan
1997, July 1981); and a Grain Distribution and Storage Project (Loan 2U52,
October 1981). The Bank is also supporting infrastructure and on-farm
investments through two Rural Roads Projects (Loan 1601, July 1978; and Loan
2108, May 1982).
43.      Performance under these projects has been mixed, reflecting the
institutional constraints in the sector. Performance of the Irrigation
Offices in executing irrigation constructiorn works has been satisfactory;
on-farm development and efforts to implement efficient farm support services
have been slower to materialize, partly due to the priority given to
construction and the non-involvement of farmiers in decision making. The First
Rural Roads Project is progressing on schedule (the Second Project is just
getting underway). On the other hand, the First Fisheries Project was
completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay and low loan recoveries
for boats. These problems were addressed during preparation of the Second
Fisheries Project and agreement was reached on a strategy for improving
recoveries under the First Project. However, these recoveries are still below
expectations. The Cooperative Farm Project, which was designed to develop
production cooperatives as part of a 10-yea r national program of agrarian
reform, was delayed by technical, manageriaL and financial problems, and then,
following the Government's decision not to ?roceed with production
cooperatives, was revised in 1970 and an amDunt of $8.8 million cancelled.
The PPAR (No. 968 of January 8, 1976) indicates that at completion in 1973,
most of the project objectives, namely improved productivity, production,
worker incomes and institutional viability, were attained, but that the
objective to eliminate subsistence farming was not achieved. The First
Agricultural Credit Project financed BNT lending for farm machinery, date palm



- 12 -
plantations and dairy development and processing, but was not fully disbursed
until 34 months after the original closing date because Bank Group funds were
onlent at a higher interest rate than Governaent funds. The PPAR (No. 2497 of
May 11, 1979) indicates that while the project achieved a good rate of return,
mechanization did not yield the benefits expected, and dairy processing
suffered major cost overruns. Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project,
the continued problem of less attractive onlending terms for Bank funds than
for Government funds, and overcentralization of BNT's subloan approval
process, caused disbursements to be slower than expected. The loan is now
nearly fully disbursed, two years after the original Closing Date. The Third
Agricultural Credit Project, which became effective in June 1981, addresses
priority credit problems; it calls for uniformity of lending terms for credit
regardless of the financing source, requires BNT to increase agricultural
staff, establish a staff training program, decentralize small subloan
appraisal and approvals to branch offices, and undertake annual reviews of the
adequacy of its agricultural interest rates compared to price inflation and
make adequate proposals for their modification as necessary. Progress so far
has been slow, although a decision has been made recently to decentralize
BNT's operations. Experience in implementing all the above projects has been
reflected in the design of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.      The proposed project was identified during a Bank mission in
September/October 1980, and was prepared by the Government and FAO/CP. It was
appraised in June 1982 and negotiations were held in Washington from December
16 to 21, 1982. The Tunisian delegation was led by the Director of
Multilateral Cooperation, Ministry of Planning and Finance, and included the
Presidents Director General of ODTC and OMIVAK. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4128-TUN, dated January 3, 1983) will be distributed separately; the main
features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III of this report. A map showing the location of areas covered by the
project is also attached.
The Project Area
45.      Location, Climate and Water Resources.  Central Tunisia consists of
the Governorates of Kasserine, Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid, and five districts of
the Governorates of Siliana and Gafsa. The project area includes all of
Central Tunisia except Sidi Bouzid, which is being developed under a separate
project to be considered for financing by the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD). Rainfall in the area is low and irregular,
ranging from 200-400 mnm. Rainfed agriculture is therefore limited and risky.
Parts of the area are subject to sudden torrential rains but since most of the
rivers formed are temporary, irrigation based on surface water is limited.
Ground water resources provide better prospects: the phreatic aquifer is
exploited by shallow wells (PS), and the deep aquifer (down to 500 m) by
boreholes which serve public irrigation perimeters (PPIs). In the project
area, there are approximately 5,900 PS irrigating about 24,000 ha, and 51 PPIs
irrigating about 12,000 ha. Of these, about 1b600 PS and 37 PPIs would be
rehabilitated under the proposed project. At present, water use in the area



- 13 -
is below its potential. However, certain areas do show signs of
overexploitation (especially the Kairouan Plain). Estimates have been made of
the present and future uses through the year 2000 of the water resources for
each basin in the project area. These calculations have been used in
designing the project, which will focus on better use of existing resources
and will only create new PPIs where resources are underexploited. No new PS
would be created. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would monitor the aquifers in the project area (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.13). In addition, a master plan of the water resources in Central
Tunisia has been prepared and calls for the construction of some dams for
flood control which would also recharge the aquifers. Piezometers to be
provided under the project on the Kairouan Plain would help evaluate the
impact of a new dam in this area.
46.      Settlement and Land Patterns, Yielcs and Marketing.  Approximately 80
percent of people in the project area live in dispersed settlements; most of
the roads to these settlements are difficult: to use or impassable during the
rainy season. Poor land and water resources, high unemployment and a low
level of public services result in low standards of living for the
population. The agricultural resources do inot provide sufficient incomes for
the farm population; nearly all farmers have outside farm income from jobs
within the region or from temporary out-migration.  Land distribution in the
PPIs to be developed under the project is fairly even -- 92 and 98 percent of
farmers in Kairouan and Kasserine own less ;:han 5 ha, respectively. However,
fragmentation of holdings is a constraint to efficient farming and, water
distribution. A program to consolidate land and issue titles in the area
began in 1980.  Non-irrigated land is used mainly for cereals, fruit trees and
grazing (mainly by sheep).  Stock rates exc,sed fodder availability leading to
poor yields, overgrazing, and imports of fodder and feed.  About 5 percent of
agricultural land is irrigated, and is used for fruit trees, vegetables,
cereals and forage.  Yields are below potential, in PPIs mainly because of the
low capacity and frequent breakdowns of wells and pumps, and in PS because of
the non-availability of advice and inputs. The shortcomings in extension,
research, input distribution and credit services noted in the sector analysis
above all affect the project area; in addition, machinery services provide
inadequate land and seed bed preparation. As regards marketing, except for
small quantities which are exported or sold to local processing plants, fruits
and vegetables are sold at local markets or the wholesale markets in Kairouan,
Sfax, Gabes and Tunis. Due to the large number of small pick-up trucks in the
area, transport is available at competitive prices. However, smaller farmers
who do not produce enough to hire transport must rely on sales agents and
often have difficulties in obtaining remunerative prices. The lack of an
organized milk collection system also inhitits farmers from increasing milk
production despite demand in the consumpticn centers like Kairouan.
47.      Constraints to Full Development oi Existing Irrigation Schemes.
Existing PPIs have not been exploited to th,eir full potential for a variety of
reasons: when they were constructed about 2:0 years ago, the beneficiaries were
largely semi-nomadic herders with little interest in sedentary agriculture;
until recently, the PPIs were managed by an Office located in Tunis which, due
to the distance, the large number of PPIs and their small size, was often
unresponsive to problems or inefficient in dealing with them; water charges
were insufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs or to encourage
efficient water use; insecurity of water availability discouraged farmers from



- 14 -
investing in more intensive production techniques; and non-application of land
reform legislation in some PPIs led to inefficient farm sizes and absentee
ownership. Some of these constraints have now been removed: the population is
now sedentary and understands the benefits of irrigation; two new local
Offices, OMIVAK and ODTC (para. 35), have been created; water charges have
been substantially increased; and application of land reform legislation has
begun. However, the irrigation systems must be rehabilitated to assure their
efficient use and farmer confidence. PS development in the project area has
been rapid and largely uncontrolled, with farmers receiving little benefit
from Government support services. The first priority now is to introduce
improved water management techniques and intensify production to make maximum
use of the limited water available, and to monitor closely further PS
development to avoid overexploitation of the aquifers.
48.      Project Objectives and Description.  The growing demand for food from
a rapidly increasing population, the lack of significant resources outside
agriculture and the level of unemployment which is likely to accelerate
rural-urban migration call for rapid development of agriculture in Central
Tunisia, one of the least developed areas of the country. The major
objectives of the proposed project are to increase agricultural production,
farm incomes and employment possibilities in the area by i) rehabilitating
existing PPIs and establishing new ones in areas where the aquifers are still
underexploited; ii) intensifying agriculture in areas already served by PS;
iii) strengthening the Offices to provide needed technical, material and
managerial support and providing them with an efficient financial management
system; iv) organizing the population to involve them in operation and
maintenance; and v) developing a pilot project for more effective livestock
development and strengthening animal production support services.
49.      The project components would include;
(i)    rehabilitation of 37 PPIs covering about 4,700 ha through
improvements to the pumping and distribution systems, on-farm
works and replacement of seven boreholes which show signs of
diminishing returns;
(ii)   establishment of five new PPIs covering about 555 ha through
borehole drilling, provision of pumping stations and equipment
and distribution networks, and on-farm works;
(iii)  provision of credit for mobile pipes and reservoirs (about
590), replacement of motorpumps (about 590) and other
rehabilitation of about 1,600 PS through cleaning, deepening
and lining, as well as for tractors (about 50) and cross-bred
heifers (about 1,000);
(iv)   provision of 20 piezometers to monitor and evaluate the
aquifers of the Kairouan Plain;
(v)    rehabilitation of about 130 Km of feeder roads;
(vi)   strengthening of the Offices through:  provision of tools and
additional staff for OMIVAK's central machinery workshop;
establishment, equipment and staffing of an applied research



- 15 -
and extension support center near Kairouan; provisionL of
offices, houses, vehicles, adcitional staff, demonstration
plots, training and evaluation and monitoring units for the
OMIVAK and ODTC extension unit:s; provision of three pilot
mechanized farming units totalling 25 tractors, two in OMIVAK
and one in ODTC; provision of equipment, spare parts and
additional staff for the repa:.r and maintenance units of
OMIVAK and ODTC; provision of vehicles, equipment and staft
for PS support units (to help clean, deepen and line PS) in
OMIVAK and ODTC; and construci:ion and equipment of two fruit
and vegetable collection centers in Kairouan and equipment of
three existing centers in Kas3erine;
(vii)  establishment of a livestock development program in two pilot
zones, combining breeding and grazing activities in range
areas with fattening in irrigated areas;
(viii) strengthening of animal production support services by
providing veterinary.centers, artificial insemination team s,
dipping tanks and milk collection centers and establishing a
herd management demonstration program;
(ix)   tecnnical assistance to organize farmers, establish a system
of financial management for the Offices, prepare a financing
plan for the Offices' input distribution system, assist with
monitoring and evaluation, and develop cooperatives and
improve marketing services; and
(x)   studies for future investments in the project area.
Project Cost and Financing
50.      The total estimated cost of the pro:,ect, excluding the front-end fee,
expressed in November 1982 prices is $43.7 mi.llion, of which $19.4 million is
in foreign exchange. Taxes and duties estimated at $9.0 million have been
included, as well as physical contingencies of 15 percent for civil works and
irrigation equipment, and 10 percent for other equipment. Price
contingencies, totalling about 19 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, have been estimated on the basis of price increases of 10
percent for 1982, 9 percent for 1983 and 8 percent thereafter for local costs,
and of 4 percent for 1982, 6 percent for 198:3, 7.5 percent for 1984 and 7
percent thereafter for foreign costs. The cost of consultant services,
including travel, fees and per diem, has been estimated at $11,000 and $9,700
per man-month for the 34 man-months of short-term assistance and 24 man-months
of long-term assistance, respectively.
51.      The proposed Bank loan of $16.5 milLion would finance about 85
percent of the foreign exchange cost, representing about 38 percent of total
project cost, for civil works, equipment, vehicles, studies, consultants,
training and the front-end fee of $0.1 million. The loan would be made to the
Government and passed on to OMIVAK, ODTC and the Highway Department (DGPC) of
the Ministry of Equipment on a grant basis through annual budget allocations.
The balance of the foreign exchange cost, included under the credit program,
would be financed by BNT from various funds at its disposal. Assurances were



- 16 -
obtained at negotiations that BNT would make creait available to farners under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02),
similar to those agreed under ongoing Bank-financed agricultural credit
projects. Local costs would be financed by the Government and farmers'
contributions. In order to assure proper maintenance of the feeder roads to
be improved under the project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
funds for such maintenance would be included in the annual budget of DGPC
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). Details of costs and financing are contained
in the Loan and Project Summary.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.      With the exceptions noted below, international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures according to Bank guidelines would be applied for the
purchase of all vehicles and equipment, valued at $9.5 million including
contingencies, and local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, already
determined to be satisfactory to the Bank, would be applied for civil works
totalling $14.8 million including contingencies. Since there are many
scattered civil works contracts which will be executed over several years,
foreign contractors not established in the country are not expected to be
interested. The only exceptions to the above procedures would be in the case
of (i) vehicle and equipment contracts under $150,000 which could be purchased
under LCB procedures, provided that the aggregate cost of all contracts
procured in this manner does not exceed $2.0 million ($1.0 million each for
ODTC and OMIVAK); (ii) concrete flumes, totalling $1.7 million including
contingencies, which are required for rehabilitation works and would be bought
through a negotiated contract with Jebel Ouest Industries, the original
supplier and only firm currently equipped to supply such canals; (iii) minor,
dispersed civil works such as land leveling, upgrading of internal tracks,
drainage improvements, piezometers and windbreak plantation, valued at $1.6
million including contingencies, which would not be suitable for letting under
contract and would be carried out by ONIVAK, ODTC and DGPC under force account
in accordance with standard Government guidelines which are satisfactory to
the Bank; and (iv) contracts for pump electrification, valued at $1.5 million
including contingencies, which would be negotiated with the Public Electricity
and Gas Company, the sole agency authorized to execute such works. The Bank's
prior review threshold for bidding documents and contracts for all equipment
would be $250,000, and for civil works $500,000, expected to cover about 75
percent of the total value of all contracts. The Bank would also review all
negotiated contracts. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines.
53.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six years
as follows. 40 percent of total expenditures for buildings and feeder road
rehabilitation; 50 percent of local expenditures or 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for irrigation equipment and civil works and for other equipment
and vehicles; and 65 percent of local expenditures or 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for studies, consultants and training. The front-end fee would
be withdrawn by and paid to the Bank at loan effectiveness.
Project Implementation
54.      Institutional Responsibility.  The Ministry of Agriculture, through
its Planning Department, would coordinate and monitor project activities,



- 17 -
which would be executed by ODTC, OMIVAK and DGPC over a period of five years.
DGPC has successfully executed Bank-financed projects in the past, and has the
necessary staff to handle its increased responsibilities under the proposed
project. ODTC, established in 1979, is benefitting from a USAID-financed
project to strengthen its implementation capacity and is considered capable of
executing project works under its jurisdiction. OMIVAK is more recently
established (1980) and, while it possesses a technically competent core staff,
needs additional infrastructure and staff to execute its part of the project.
These would be provided under the project. In addition, as detailed below,
both ODTC and OMIVAK would receive technical assistance in key areas under the
project. The livestock pilot scheme would be implemented by OMIVAK's
extension department in close collaboration with the Kairouan Forestry
Department, which is in charge of rangeland improvements, and the Livestock
Office which promotes fodder production and distribution.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this pilot schEme would be reviewed at mid-term,
by September 30, 1985, so as to assess results and make any necessary
adjustments (OMIVAK Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
55.      Designs.  Detailed designs for firsl:-year rehabilitation works and
for the new PPIs have already been prepared. Cost estimates for the feeder
roads are based on preliminary designs following design criteria established
under the two Bank-financed Rural Roads Projects and recent tender offers for
construction of roads under those projects. Consultants have been hired to
prepare detailed engineering and draft tender documents. Retroactive
financing of up to $90,000 is proposed for expenditures incurred tor these
consultants after September 1, 1982 but before expected loan signature (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).
56.      Farmers' Participation.  In order to encourage more efticient
management and exploitation of the PPIs, the project proposes an innovative
approach of progressively involving the farmers in operation and maintenance
of the irrigation systems, as well as in the provision of related services.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations thaL, upon completion of
rehabilitation works in each existing PPI, anid prior to starting up irrigation
in each new PPI, an agreement would be signed between the farmers concerned
and the Offices defining the rights and obligations of each. Assurances were
also obtained that the draft terms and conditions of such an agreement would
be furnished to the Bank for approval by SepLember 30, 1984 (Project
Agreements, Section 2.06).  It is expected that the Offices would commit
themselves to fully rehabilitate the PPI; deEine, in collaboration with the
farmers, water distribution amounts and schedules; provide extension services
and, in the short term, inputs and marketing facilities; and guarantee the
supply of water. It is expected that farmers would commit themselves to
comply with land consolidation proposals; use irrigation water both in summer
and winter; contribute labor to minor repair works; accept progressive
increases in water charges until they cover Dperation and maintenance costs;
repay credit; and accept specific sanctions such as water cut-offs in the
event of non-compliance with the agreement. By providing greater security in
the provision of water, these agreements would give incentives to farmers to
intensify production. This approach has been discussed with farmers, who have
responded favorably. The regional authorities and the farmers' union would
endorse and ensure compliance with these agreements.



- 18 -
57.      In order to facilitate the above, during construction works, the
Offices would promote the organization of the farmers into water users'
associations. Committees consisting of representatives of the farmers, the
Offices and the regional authorities would be formed to take all decisions
concerning the rehabilitation works and proposed support services. An expert
in the formation of grass-roots organizations would be hired by December 31,
1983 to help the Offices in this effort (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). It is
expected that three to five years after construction works are completed, the
water users' associations would have acquired the necessary experience and
organization to assume responsibility for most of the management functions of
the PPIs. At this point they would be transformed into de JUre associations.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a framework to form de jure
associations would be adopted by December 31, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.10).
58.      Land Reform.  Land reform legislation in Tunisia foresees that
maximum and minimum land holdings as well as the contribution of farmers to
investments be determined by a specific decree for each PPI. In existing PPIs
in the project area, the agreement to be signed by farmers and the Offices
upon completion of rehabilitation works would encourage cornpliance with land
consolidation proposals. With regard to the new PPIs proposed for development
under the project, it is important to apply expeditiously the land reform law
to assure that production is developed and benefits realized quickly and that
the benefits are distributed equitably. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that decrees would be adopted by January 31, 1985 creating the
new PPIs, with size of holdings and farmer contributions satisfactory to the
Bank, and that provisional delimitation of plots would be completed before
starting construction of irrigation works for these PPIs (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09). The maximum land holding is expected to be about 5 ha per
farmer and the farmer's contribution is expected to be at least 5 percent of
the cost per ha of irrigation infrastructure investments in the PPI.
59.      Provision of Support Services.  ODTC and OMIVAK, like all Offices in
Tunisia, provide agricultural support services. However, to avoid the
creation or perpetuation of inefficient state monopolies and unnecessary
involvement of the Government in activities which could be provided by the
private sector, the following principles would guide these activities; (i) the
Offices would provide services whose nature prevents their provision by the
private sector (extension and research); (ii) services required for efficient
farming, but not readily available in the project area, would be undertaken at
cost by the Offices until demand is sufficiently strong to assure private
competition; and (iii) the Offices would encourage the private sector or
cooperatives to take over progressively these services. The following
specific support service arrangements would be made under the project.
Extension activities would be organized more systematically using the
principles of the training and visit system, and would be tied closely to the
work of the research center, whose staff would act as subject matter
specialists for extension agents. Research activities would be focused on
problem solving, especially of issues identified by water users' associations
and extension agents. The Offices' input supply function would be improved by
determining the real cost of input supply, the margin to be charged to
farmers, measures to be taken to improve efficiency, and ways to develop
private sector involvement in this activity. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, by June 30, 1985, the Offices would prepare and implement



- 19 -
thereafter an input supply financing plan acceptable to the Bank (ODTC Project
Agreement, Section 2.08; OMIVAK Project Agreement, Section 2.09). This plan
would be based on the principles and policies resulting from a national study
on input supply to be done under the Technical Assistance Project. The
Offices would supply marketing services by providing marketing intelligence to
farmers, assisting water users' associations to organize the marketing of
their crops and operating, for a limited period, fruit, vegetable and milk
collection centers to increase competition and facilitate the access of small
farmers to these services. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Offices would present by December 31, 1983 action plans for their marketing
units, that they would charge fees for the collection centers which would
progressively cover their real costs of operation and maintenance (including
transport), and that they would submit, by June 30, 1986, and implement
thereafter, a plan and timetable either for transferring management of the
centers to cooperatives or for leasing them to private operators (ODTC Project
Agreement, Sections 2.09-2.11; OMIVAK Project Agreement, Sections 2.10-2.12).
Experts in input supply, marketing and cooperative development would be hired
to help the Offices in the above areas (Loan. Agreement, Section 3.04).
60.      Financial Management of the Offices; and Cost Recovery.  The Offices
provide a large number of services, some of which are to various degrees
self-financing and others which are subsidized. Their current financial
management and accounting systems do not permit the calculation of the real
costs and receipts of these services. They also do not allow separate
funding, which can lead to tthe transfer of funds needed for operation and
maintenance (O&M) to finance deficits on otlher items. To assure efficient
management of these services, fiscal accountability and proper O&M, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a system of cost accounts and funding for
each activity would be established by DecemDer 31, 1984, that the Government
would analyze annually the O&M costs of the Offices' irrigation systems,
including expected revenues from water char;es, and that budgetary funding for
O&M, in amounts satisfactory to the Bank, would be provided each year under a
specially earmarked item (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.06-3.08). An expert
would be hired by December 31, 1983 to help the Offices in this area (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04).
61.      Current water charges in the project area PPIs are low, recovering
less than half the costs of O&M. The Government has, however, raised rates
from 6 to 12 millimes within a year in Kairouan, which compares favorably to
the rates in other more affluent parts of the country, and from 6 to 10
millimes in Kasserine (a poorer area). The collection rate is about 100
percent, since farmers pay for water in advance. The Government's ultimate
aim is to achieve full O&M cost recovery, and this will be facilitated under
the project since the cost of providing water, and thus the amount of water
rate increases required, would be reduced by about 15-20 percent due to
greater farmer participation in operation and maintenance of the systems.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that water charges in the project
area would be progressively increased to achieve 100 percent O&M cost recovery
by December 31, 1989 (ODTC Project Agreement, Section 2.12(i); OMIVAK Project
Agreement, Section 2.13(i); Loan Agreement, Section 3.11). This would imply a
rent recovery of 26-34 percent, which is within the farmers' ability to pay
and also compares favorably to other parts of the country. An understanding
was also reached that, in order to attain this goal, water charges would be
increased, by 1986, by 40 percent of the difference between current rates and



- 20 -
the rates required to reach full O&M cost recovery.  Finally, in order to
increase water use in the winter when water resources are more plentiful,
assurances were obtained that the Government would submit to the Bank, by June
30, 1984, a proposal for differential water charges that wouLa proviae farmers
with sufficient incentives to produce winter crops, and would take any action
agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.12).
62.      Monitoring, Accounts and Audits.  A management inforwation specialist
would be hired by December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04) to assist
with project monitoring, which would put special emphasis on extension anid on
progress made in organizing farmers and in divesting the Offices of support
activities.  ODTC, OMIVAK and DGPC would maintain separate accounts for the
project, including sub-accounts for collection centers and certifiea
statements of expenditure for force account works, and have tnem audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the bank.
63.      Production, Benefits and Risks.  Production increases, largely of
fruit, vegetables and fodder, would result fromt intensified farming and
cropping pattern modifications due to greater and more assured water
availability and improved cultural practices, and are expected to be readily
absorbed by increasing local demand.  Agricultural support components of the
project would benefit all farmers of the irrigated subsector in the project
zone, estimated at about 12,000 farmu families. Irrigation rehabilitation
would benefit about 2,000 families, whose incomes from irrigated agriculture
would rise from D420 without the project to D990 at full development for the
smallest farm-type (averaging 1.65 ha and representing 41 percent of farmers),
and from D4,200 to D7,160 for the largest farm-type (averaging 15.5 ha ana
representing only 2 percent); new irrigation schemes would benefit aDout 45o
families, whose incomes would reach D380 ana D1,340 for sumall and medium
farmers, respectively; strengthening of the Offices' support services to PS
would benefit about 5,900 families, whose average incomies of DI,370 ana Dl,650
would rise between 12 and 22 percent at tull development; the roaa coumponent
would improve farm access for about 5,000 families; and the livestock pilot
scheme would benefit about 1,000 famiiies.  In audition to these proauction
and income increases, the project would provide about 1,500 additional
full-time jobs.
64.      Based on estimates of the benefits from increased production, ana the
investment costs and incremental operating, maintenance and production costs
attributable to the project, the overall economic rate of return is calculated
at 16 percent for the 20-year life of tne project.  Costs and benefits were
calculated using conversion factors to adjust for distortions in ruarket
prices. Separate rates of return were calculated for each PPI to be developed
under the project, the rates ranging between 11 and 67 percent for
rehabilitation and between 10 and 21 percent for new PPIs, and for the
influence zone of each proposed feeder road, which have rates of return
between 10 and 24 percent. The economic viability for the project is
relatively insensitive to changes in costs and benefits; if net benefits fell
by 30 percent or if net costs increased by 30 percent, tne rate of return
would be 9.5 and 11 percent, respectively.
65.      Risks under the project include marketing, failure to maintain
rehabilitated systems, lack of water use in winter, ana the newness of the
implementing agencies.  Marketing projections show that demand in Tunisia



- 21 -
should easily absorb increased production from the project. The risk of
temporary over-supplies with accompanying falls in prices would be minimized
by improved marketing infrastructure and ini-ormation systems. The project has
also been designed to minimize the risk thai: irrigation systems, once
rehabilitated under the project, could deteriorate, as they did in the past;
the maintenance units of the Offices would be strengthened, farmers would play
a role in maintenance, water charges would be increased, and budgeting
procedures for maintenance would be improved. A significant share of project
benefits depends on increased water use in winter. A recent Government
decision to gradually discontinue feed subsidies would increase the financial
incentives for growing winter forage, and the proposed differential water
rates for winter and summer would encourage increased winter cropping.
Finally, although the Offices are relatively new, they are being strengthened
under this and USAID-financed projects and have been closely involved with
project preparation. They have also already had experience with carrying out
similar works. This, coupled with the relatively small number and the
simplicity of project activities and the availability of designs, should
minimize delays in implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENrS AND AUTHORITY
66.      The draft Loan Agreement between tne Bank and the Republic of
Tunisia, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and ODTC and OMIVAK,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Amnex
lII.
67.      I am satisfied that the proposed LDan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 3, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
TOTAL             163.6                                                       MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      75.2                                  MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  230.0        380.0    1310.0                 1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      165.2        289.7     589.9                  713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4221.0         5127.0    6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0          43.5      51.7                  47.3                      65.7
POPULATION FROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2080
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                        25.8         31.3      37.9                  35.8                      35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      60.7         72.9      82.4                 420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.4         46.2      41.4                   44.3                     39.7
15-64 YES.                          52.5         50.0      54.9                   52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.2          3.8       3.7                   3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 Ic       U.9/c     2.1                    2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               3.2          3.8       3.9                   4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.9         41.8      34.9                   41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0         14.6       9.2                   12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.2       2,6                    2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        29.2     180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          10.0      21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           97.0         96.0     132.0                 100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    83.2         88.2     115.1/d               108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.8         56.6      75.17Z                 71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.9         13.5      22.77d                 18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      36.1         24.5        9.8                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.1          54.2      60.2                   56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      158.9        131.3      90.0                 104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        49.0       70.0/e                59.1                     65.6
URBAN                                 ..          ..      63.o7e                83.1                      78.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       77.0o7                39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *         62.0         ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                 ..       100.0         ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..        34.0      60.0/e                   ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10026.1       5934.0    3576.2                 4015.5                   1617.3
POPLLATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       727.5    1167.8                 1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             405.2        409.1     463.7                 641.7                     477.4
URBAN                             277.3/f      302.8     340.7/e                538.3                    679.8
RURAL                            1040.9/f    1269.3    1275.8T7                2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.1       25.0/e                25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.1 /g
URBAN                                ..          5.1 7T
RURAL                                 ..         5.1 Ig
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         3.2 _/.
URBAN                                 ..         2.7
RURAL                                 ..         3.6         . 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        24.0 
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



- 23 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
M HOST RECENT ESTIM&TE) a
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0        100.0     102.0                  88.7                     104.3
MALE                  88.0       121.0      119.0                 104.5                    106.4
FEMALE                43.0        80.0       85.0                  72.5                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         23.0      25.0                   39.7                     41.3
MALE                  19.0        33.0       31.0                  49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                 5.0        13.0       19.0                  29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY) 23.5           11.1       35.0                  10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            61.1         47 5      39.2                  34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                          . $          27.8      20.4                   23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5         24.0O/    62.0                   43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.5         13.0      18.3/1                17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         40.3         75.7      94.8                  131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1         14.0'                            44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.0         16.0      43.8                   31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..        1.5/d                 1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1137.9       1214.8    1631.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.0          7.7       8.3                  10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0         50.0      34.0                   42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         21.0      33.0                  27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.0         23.7       25.7                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 50.2         44.2      46.5                   46.2                     50.4
FENALE                                3.3          3.6       4.3                    5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         2.1        1.8                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGNEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..       17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..      42.07i.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..       6.07i.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..      15.07i.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     204.0/d                279.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      97.07F                178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     193.0/d               403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      193.07w               285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      20.0/d                 22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      15.d7&                30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976;
/f 1962; /g 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982



24                                                             ~~~~~~~ANNEX I
-                                                          ~~~~~~~Page 3 of 6
t000r5  ... osto  top Otucibe orher   of        -   g,oo A,pooIcfa   ce   o    brciie   et  omjrdfeec...rve ....r.c.
The reeesocegroopserr ff  the Oma cobity  frOpflo  aooeo   oo-er h.,d   id2>  bcttytopot    xoea   itrbeee  noetO    r                                      ory  r
ofteabjc o.oryftetfoIdyfcoa OfExotr    ocpCee"SiTefie                                                          ot   Crisad  iseEst'i    oerhcieofaena
ibId oofoamop.m..Ppfat.    oetoria P                                                                                               Bed -eons,  -b-a,  nod trt>-r opal         . o
ron>     tte   -itoe_ s    oocs    _godorea  -no onntfoisr    ifffIete.                           ore       _adrrf    -tnidedy their nsp-ol-                        h-sort  opi-alosd
Oatoo   Z-Pssoo   arciio>oc   t                      I oprr'ooo  or praa -rty                  Otiooeh  pei  it  proste  tonera   on-d opso"i-btr  hoop ita  it  ro-
too onpo ,  asobse , maroot  to hionon  trneot  or n  lie falfox; 1979 data.              tafiairenea                 mpisi    rmtobiotorrann>ytfo
no ei   eroephyot ba,_             sefa_er   pro-boan   prin- if lot<Ot
ffR7, eni  -hf>Ioats.                                                                        rota. P_s.teett, no..  sIdoif. e.  btc    ter;-7bitcoo
tfootOqin clobeoso   zo> t0iosetspat <oob.   6>   >970.  n  >7                                  oen--s   Opocisihed n-pbios art io< d or>   tor   bone>
rehapifis LIdto>,deoby the noser ofbt.
ToaHorffon   >-hoer tl"houtaonsl - 00 of  _I, U; AbE  >,970, aod >980                   dObOft I
-rad Ppftftf eonoo-tr>                    - ttro   ot0b0  oa    ooa  o                                    hroeodneasofAtrm   of.1.   -0> idisia an   ors ra <OOii 0,ree
1mn   onrs    960. ff70. emd 1990 oasdh-hoeridfrsens s                                                                          -pi.r.see.
Pobaitbefa   00-   brtrppiabnpo e oemt bae  on. d                        1980               bePfpeso    peeroe. Loo off orta, erd  -os   oop le
fech  ad trmae lfit a apeana...y  -tbt.loe>o   ot >7.5 otesr..  Th  prt                         nnentna   Iw>>tg  0mb  r>etr e   it "OIn'll arer
Eac  bomotr1y bsretad sbare   onS_i. of  t.eeeoo   oo  rttoeo   nro>t                         hbAdTOt.d-
,h,riontrnnoo           ,,abo -fo hta  to-r  onto2s io-nd       eI   t cn ho1-c  P.im "y,,rtn  -  on>  saf  ond I                                  -Ioaoca,is    n
_ataonann -..      T ia fechtmi sob t.~cfter  otlita  boom   dec-ons no                              priac   ohii-t   pplbno    irfrlbee hI~doa-  afem  it>
tne-erpsen>ottnterpoboinae"sab=eeabnner   toe'eefrtfrns 1mottotL.                                                                                       prbmtnofIst
otno-eoeitefoacl. T>ettiorpp.stoaaae-oosIeeato h.ooeaeoauobnn<atanom.haon
oboe  iEl> he ras_had.                                                                              otoafy1o If 1 i2     7   .r. of.  .e o.      esyneba  c             IbIetregneainy
yoF, a Ion Oen-in-anfs
yP->ofnho    t,aas    etis   -P -h>rn.-o'essf,actgmg                               l0 rtey  edpmondry-   Ifee   tbdd ...o.ers of I.esnc   nm
f   1tn    960. >970. sod  .9t. doss,                                                         bait lifreest  rate fsrcentl - Ltceces ~d,,>-s   shbOe torcd  -dn unto.
PIr,at>0  Itat  Oar  (recer 7    os              Abnaus  orneh rie If tota  soid-                      rsp-e-etat   of tota  stole  pipibasinn sted <7 yeer  andoe
'--oix   for 1950-60. >960-7>  o-d ft970-SO.... yeoeg- Cars foar ttai...d pnoii>aetibn<                                                                 Zoos9c  ot  ;o-- bo  Ictn
>node bIrch Raue  (brt Ioobsa if d  - ttif>o   itmcrthn....td of otd-y.ac                              camosbm       -ls   -sa  totr  Peeos;an<omasb..cu.Oesa
onPiUatIoo; 1990, >97. and >.990 Sate.                                                              oil hayoet s
<rode TeathEa e  pe        ....ao n     oAI.-   de-on  ysr  hoo....d  of sud-ye..                    tadto Oesaeafet chbiasnd orl  ln   -"fIpe   o'tbbtr   O    0
popolafin   >90  >0.or   91   aa                                                                   brosar  .0 geer>            -Iaf tge  thod   nio>poo<atn;cc Ode
neoomsre roba-c   peidfoensoncopeeti-rb  fc--araebaotnon.otnn y- mrm  meyotn.otartlaoc
0Ilbtron-oonrm I ostrs  odr  oa eeson 6nnuno                    famly  leaing   rarau                stsr-sf  pilc per  tausad ppihon,acou
PsmO.fyyfonotns-Ussrs )peecensho ...matrue          - aurfyrn -rg    of  -.e-bV loono-telee.eth.. >nydeaeraeaeun    .T   e a.fofet
ofobf -heab.es -d >-.Pira.r  f mm  ice  1trf-nnte            Oeoec                     eop-rtn lsIn>re   hoascoon  o                           - Soe  one,: aIest 0- On-
-o oacte  aS   in  -s  a5e 5au.                                                                   0 olOtbon If 'dstly isors .ntret......              " .Pftoo   aacro            'ct
pobiffata   denre   prisacofy toreit                 ..og   -eea>ns.-f4f ..... toecbd
FOOD IND NU'ITIfTON                                                                                       a nS  "         Iffp     it E   rpe.,. as fa.et f oort>n-ooeI."
fndsa of Pond Ptnd-b-to   Par Tanits  f59--OT   -Une  ofprnp                         abf             Itnes  tans-ittei      Pnero   UnIr  psr hear - 3-se  on, foe ....
ptndob-bnn of a>    Iod   oadtfs    rno   tntb>desse   o     c   o                                       essf  doeto  th  yee. fn o5  ngomsstoeootoe-on>nema
>5 n Inufe_s  year. bef.    >ndiis   cnm  ptry tode  >5.9. a-eso                                     sod mob tie .its.
bnsteaa of moose ) erith ore  dilba  amad   -eaoootents   5.. onffee-ar
osbnf   nr tapone  ri..   osIg-ts   1961-65. f970, sod 5980 SetsT .                         .Otto  Lobnt Farce )t-ob.atdef  - too...iotoa<f   -oiia person, ibbilocng
fa"I     otict  ocf 0<nc   peen_ot Of recobresentsj - C-unad t-                                          74c .r.. frte  andoem>yabsn   -o  o              oetce     -ab rbi. ettc
yetde 4. bslre   ap,    corus  osip aturn                           . teots  <ass                    not nn.seb>so  0990. ff70 atd >909  dose.
annn  ,[odbe -gee onohato.  fa   opp>iee aIunde atuma  teem,seeds.                             F.ma>. (paecens>  - Fema  le >oi  f.-a  a   ebetge Is   -a   <at- or-fots
oIa tlsisdf  food peo-es teg  aid1asoc   >0 dnlteoitbbtL.   tebr-                          Asnii>rieeI...      ne7  (psa-ac          InnoPasn,foety
riot mere rt ioaoet b  Pa  Oes  am p      isobgba>reds  a   as    n                              fi.btog  as pernenEa5   If tots   >aa   nne:fi  07   a _0   es
htmnO    es  l9Ndb . >97  sodL977--or-1991c>97  to-1900tete
o'.remroafocl>   muoeie p   sp on-isoe.d  by2 >99rtbe  o   btompreoge   fos I   ab   n  femLepr-s b...  of  elf, s-as  Iraenio
y   ds rnoo   fouc50ge   oal   eeas    astm                       htset-rff6  lgagessorcre   foeIonauo.adfrmtnao 
abuma1;~l rettun  a  at ioeeage fo  ohs antIs, d I prop isdb   a  to the Tote                      LoomcDcrac    st       as   i  oaahnadr>   r Sado
_nf   Podbre_;>9-5.f7   m  11Y                    as                                                em thei tore>  faba  fort.                            d  . .1b
>701, ar  <-o   >eaah    1    ,-sna1  11,- tetos,fona      Itsb     eoosno                           caooefrns                 nn      .1                    ..oohndtd-  Oentboei yrucn-
Lola fnco fnco o  a t - r . yes I-  boa-tsd,en .Pe ..o d  FeMcs o   l Ife mtotd               hEb,i> fot-n to. y ILa are  nary   perpi oteraore   o  pnsry  <oc.
at,Idtrond <96, <  9701end >970  .deos        7  ..                                                  and oboo  eooapoaabtzts.rsf    ooln
Acooso  o hate   ster irroono  t' roroetfor)   n_naa  oman. h n F orald  his              n..tnt-bafp P osi--t  0000~b                - p<ids-eduo    o --to   -efr-db   usni
estr tpp y 5fon hes  ereemo- eac  as 9er  or-  98 dtmoeit- cogeoaa                           Ooame  teIlsoisPneofb0    er    b  peopt.-.r                                n   oe
Larcnsiao   oru 3i         atctih       porboanfons          l nnrsoeicia-< ic                       7arannI ..    oor of-       bea o      ...tr . refas   OsJee   Urce th   rrs
ororst9pooo'- neoaoraooohnor0toanie    .hclaemubmloId                                                            to   obha.-tffo              Looutaare
-snefocerd  sail toor  niono   oreana tI  oocess of then  onoIse.  ....s  ar. s .ootedPoA                           s for Baberl oto2 loe Poocr yS foo-   Leel- nreo  
nasnne>eooaoonoilo>ototnayisehtornensrofnehbeeoloenfote-  Prb-totyo I<sIoo.. -esnri el>abn he''ha i--t
00 Ott o-ne to oyeuadfapeoooq otnoer  pert.of the.oaf  >  fas-bungoot.e                              ba
ofb perI  lntl hb        rbenpr  ond coral                 -deoe_OR-ooor.a.Of.pceef 5
-onlatto   per Ph. t...a -. raila       diide t  e.n .f nasShehr.. of                                   r !         Z prtr-bgpe-          o noc and b-Ia>  Daah0. an
posbolftdfrms  a ss   saoi  ti   hnrss   Osel                                                                               Enoomo ihiysllrommteobos e-ener
toista   e    irsigPcn       maaia    iue    ynae    f  tat .                                                                                    fy>9
sa>   as   feeaeiIaasanuss.sesest  ose.ponia>ocae
nooriogstt ief



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC I5DICATORS
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  jl,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                              (at 1980 prices)
(million USI                          Actual                                              Projected
Indicator                      at current prices)
1981            1977    1978    1979        1980   1981         1982    1983       1984    1985    1986    1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /1               8,224.0            5.3      7.1      7.1       6.0    5.0          3.8      7.3       6.0      5.8      5.6      5.3
Agriculture                           1,111.2         -10.2       4.5    -4.8       6.1    9.0         -4.3    11.5         4.0      3.9      3.7      3.5
Industry                              2,663.6           9.8      9.0    11.9         9.9    2.1          3.9      7.5      7.3       7.0      6.7      6.4
Services                             3,329.3            5.6       7.4     8.7       3.9    6.4          6.5       6.3      6.1       5.9     5.7       5.5
Consumption                             6,350.7           10.4      5.8      4.6       9.9    7.0          7.0      4.1       7.4      6.3      4.1      5.3
Gross investment                        2,539.5            6.9    12.9       3.9       5.8    9.2         -5.0      8.8       1.1      1.0      1.8      3.1
Exports of goods and NFS                3,475.1            5.5      8.2    23.3        0.7    2.0          4.4      8.3       6.9      8.0    13.4       8.2
Imports of goods and NFS               4,141.4           16.7       9.6    14.3        7.2    8.4          4.0      3.5       6.2      5.8      7.8      6.9
Gross national product                  8,292.8            5.8      7.9      7.5       6.5    5.2          3.6      7.2       9.9      5.5      9.3      5.2
Gross national savings                  1,942.1           -7.2    14.8    21.8       -7.2   -0.8        -19,4    17.8        -2.0      0.5      7.9      4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator                                              76.0    80.1    88.3    100.0  109.7
E.change rate                                              2.33    2.40    2.46        2.47   2.02
Share of GDP at market prices (7)                                        Average Annual Increase (1)
(at current prices) _                                                (at constant prices)
1971       1976       1981       1986       1987       1991             1971-76     1976-81    1981-86    1982-87         1986-91
Gross domestic product /1  100.0         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0              8.8          6.1         5.7          6.0          4.9
Agriculture               18.8        18.1       13.5       13.0       12.7       12.1               8.2         0.7          3.6         5.3 /2        3.5
Industry                  20.6       25.9        32.4       32.4       32.7       33.7              10.2         8.5          6.5         7.0          5.8
Services                  47.7        42.9       40.5       41.6       41.7       41.9               8.3         6.4          6.1         5.9           5.1
Consumption                    82.0       77.5       77.2       78.1       78.0        74.5              9.6          7.5         5.8          5.4          4.0
Gross investment               20.0       30.4       30.9       24.6        24.1       23.8              14.1         7.7         1.4          3.1          4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8          29.1       42.3       44.1        45.3       46.5               5.6         7.6         8.2          9.0          6.1
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8          37.1       50.4       46.8        47.5       44.7              13.1        11.2         5.5          6.0          4.0
Gross national product         99.6       98.7      100.8       99.6        99.4       99.1               8.5         6.6         9.5          5.R          4.9
Nei: factor income             -0.4       -1.3        0.8       -0.4        -0.6       -0.9                -           -
Gross national savings         17.6       21.1       23.6       18.0        17.9       20.6               2.9         3.6         0.2          5.5          8.0
As 8 of GDP
(at current prices)
1971      1975        1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                  21.4       24.2       30.0
Current expenditure                                             18.9        18.5       22.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                       2.5         5.7        7.8
Capital expenditure                                              6.9        11.4       10.6
Foreign financing                                                 3.2        1.7        1.4
1971-76         1976-81          1981-86          1982-87          1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (1)                                             8.4              6.6              5.5              5.8             4.9
GNP per capita growth rate (I)                                  5.4              4.0              2.8              3.1             2.2
ICOR                                                            2.7              5.5              5.2             4.8              5.3
Marginal savings rate                                          24.0             25.2             20.6             23.0            30.2
Import elasticity                                               1.51             1.84             0.96             1.0             0.82
/1  GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
/2  This growth rate reflects the decline expected in 1982; a least square growth
rate for the same period (1982-87) is 4.9, but the long-term projectionis for
agriculture are better reflected in the growth rates for the individual years
shown above.
EMENA CP IT-C
July 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population; 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                                      (at 1980 Prices)
(million USt                                Actual                                                Proj ec ted
Indicator                  at current prices)
1981                1977    1978    1979    1980    1981                1982      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                2,434.2                 9.7      9.6    20.7       0.8      3.7              3.6      8.8      6.7     8.2    16.0        8.4
Crude oil                        1,249.7                12.4    12.8    12.4        0.2    -5.0              1.1      2.7    -1.8       1.8    -0.1       3.7
Other primary                      125.8                 4.9   -15.7    25.1   -11.9    -3.3                11.6      8.7      8.8      9.0      8.9      7.7
Manufactures                     1,058.7                 6.8    10.4    33.3        3.6    16.3              5.3    14.9    14.3    13.2    28.1/2  11.0
Merchandise imports                 3,801.5               14.1    10.7    15.7        7.7      9.5              3.7      3.0      6.0      5.6      7.8      7.1
Food                               421.4                 9.6      7.7    39.6    -6.8       9.4              2.9      1.1      2.7      5.3      5.0    -4.8
Petroleum                          756.6                13.8    15.1       9.7    13.5    13.9              18.5      0.6    11.3       8.2    21.7/2  13.8
Machinery and equipment            979.5                 5.5    15.4    -2.6    -4.4    32.9                -7.1    -1.0    -0.7        0.0      0.0      7.7
Others                           1,644.0                21.6      6.5    24.9    15.3    -2.3                4.4      6.7      7.9      7.1      5.6      5.9
Price Index                                             Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                      54.8    58.7    75.5   100.0   118.6               117.4   122.5   131.6   141.8   152.0   163.5
Import price index                                     72.6    76.6    85.3   100.0   116.8                127.4   135.6   147.6   160.2   172.2   184.3
Terms of trade index                                    75.5    76.6    88.5   100.0   101.5                92.1    90.3    89.2    88.5    88.3    88.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)                                 Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                         (at constant prices)
1971    1976    1981    1986    1987    1991                 1971-76    1976-81       1981-86    1982-87       1986-91
Exports                                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                     4.1         8.7          8.6         9.6          5.2
Crude oil                           24.5    40.9    53.7    36.3    35.2    30.7                     4.6          6.3         0.7         1.3         -0.1
Other primary                       19.2    13.4       5.2      5.6       5.5     5.5               -5.4         -1.2         9.4         8.6           5.8
Manufactures                        56.3    45.7    41.1    58.1    59.3    63.7                     6.4         13.6        14.9        16.2           7.7
Imports                                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                    13.1        11.5         5.2          5.9          3.9
Food                                21.2    12.3    11.1    11.0          9.8      6.8               0.6         10.9         3.4         1.8          -5.3
Petroleum                             3.9    11.1    19.9    22.9    24.9    31.0                   29.2         13.2        11.8        10.9           8.6
Machinery and Equipment              30.1    31.9    25.8    17.9    17.9    13.2                    13.5        10.5        -1.8          1.2         -1.0
Others                              44.8    44.7    43.2    48.2    47.4    49.0                    10.6         12.9         6.3         6.6           4.8
Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with                       Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (2)              Developing Countries (2)              Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)
1970      1975      1980              1970      1975      1980                   1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     62.6      48.6       n.a.             23.4      41.4       n.a.                  14.0    10.0       n.a.
Imports                                    62.9      67.1       n.a.             33.7      25.7       n.a.                    3.4      7.2      n.a.
/I Constant price data at 1980 prices.
/2 Increase in refining capacity.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS EXTERNAL CIPITAL AND DEBT
million US  at current prices)
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  *1,420 (1981)
Actual /1                                                 Projected
1971       1976       1979       1980       1981            1982       1983       1986      1987         1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exporta of goods & services                    -57.4    -417.0    -356.0    -472.5    -607.5              -934.4    -893.3  -1,171.4 -1,265.7   -1,258.7
Exports of goods & services                     469.4   1,479.5   3,137.5   3,912.:1   3,902.4             4,120.5   4,680.2   7,403.0  8,546.4   13,632.1
Imiports of goods & services                    526.8   1,896.5   3,493.5   4,384.)   4,509.9              5,054.9   5,573.5   8,574.4  9,812.1   14,890.8
Net transfers /2                                    52.0      52.7        61.0      100.0       36.4            32.4       32.4       24.3      24.0        24.0
Current account balance                            -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372.5    -571.1               -902.0    -860.9  -1,147.1 -1,241.7   -1,234.7
Direct private investment                          27.6      102.6        50.9      236.')     354.6           400.0      300.0      400.0    400.0         50n.n
MLT loans (net)                                     55.3      167.9      494.2      323.9      188.0           502.0      651.0      916.3  1,010.9        99
Official                                         59.2      130.4      198.5      270.)      262.2            434.4      416.1      423.6    476.1        690.0
Private                                          -3.9       37.5      295.7        53.3     -74.2             67.6      234.9      492.7    534.8        304.7
Other capital                                      13.7        55.1    -126.2    -122.4       134.2               -          -          -         -
Change in reserves                                -91.2        38.7    -123.9      -64.9    -105.7                -       -90.2    -169.2   -169.2        -260.0
International reserves                            114.8      304.5      415.5      455.7       568.6           568.6      658.8   1,087.4  1,256.6    2,176.6
Reserves as months of imports                        2.6        2.2        1.6        1.4        1.6             1.4        1.4         1.5      1.5         1.7
Actual /1                                                  Projected
1971     1976        1979       1980      1981             1982       1983       1986       1987       1991
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                     35.5       50.2       50.7       41.5      26.3             32.4        32.4      24.3       24.0        24.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                  105.2      229.5      643.8      535.1    514.9              842.9   1,048.4   1,485.1   1,689.7   2,247.1
Concessional                                        61.0      104.0      154.5      217.5    284.1             343.8      326.2      284.4      309.2      427.2
3ilateral                                        52.8       95.1      153.7      197.3    277.6              256.6      264.6      238.6      255.2      337.6
IDA                                               4.8        8.9        0.2        1.0       0.6               1.0         -          -          -          -
Other multilateral                                3.4         0.0       0.6        19.2       5.9             86.2       61.6       45.7       54.0       89.6
Non-concessional                                    44.2      125.5      489.3      317.6    230.8             49Q.1      722.2   1,200.7   1,380.5   1,819.9
Private                                          28.8       60.1      377.6      191.4    117.3              294.2      475.6      801.5      918.7   1,080.7
Official export credits                            3.2        9.9       42.6       52.5      36.3             76.2       96.3      214.5      268.5      522.3
IDRD                                             12.2       25.3       55.4       51.1      53.5              83.6      123.2      155.1      159.9      173.9
Other  Iultilateral                                 -       30.2        13.7       22.6     23.7              45.1       27.1       29.6       33.4       43.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                    619.5   1,166.2   2,996.4   3,188.8  3,370.7               4,024.2   4,675.3   7,360.9   8,371.9  12,611.8
Official                                        440.0      971.6   1,830.7   2,024.0  2,280.3              7,769.0   3,185.2   4,423.2   4,899.3   7,422.2
IBRD                                           39.3      127.9      232.0      269.0    303.8              345.3      426.6      725.8      811.9   1,049.5
IDA                                            21.1       64.1       67.3       67.9      67.9              68.9       68.1       65.3       64.1       58.2
Other                                         379.6      779.6   1,531.4   1,687.1  1,908.6             2,352.8   2,690.5   3,632.1   4,023.3   6,314.5
Private                                         179.5      194.6   1,165.7   1,164.8  1,090.4              1,255.2   1,490.1   2,937.7   3,472.5   5,180.6
Undisbursed debt                                   352.5   1,109.5   1,694.6   1,685.5  1,170.6              1,539.9   1,515.1   1,851.4   2,143.4   3,036.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                         69.8       98.6      308.8      432,7    547.6             567.6      642.4      991.5   1,177.9   2,037.2
Interest                                         19.9       36.9      159.2      221.5    220.7              226.6      245.0      422.6      499.2      784.9
Payments as I exports                               14.9        6.7        9.8       10 9      13.9             13.8        13.7       13.4       13.8       14.9
Payments as 2 GNP                                   4.1          2.2       4.3        5,1       6.6              6.1        5.9        6.1        6.3        6.8
Average interest rate of new Loans (I)               4.9        5.4        7.1        7.1       6.7              7.2         8.0       8.2        7.3         7.4
Official                                          4.6        4.3        5.6         6.2       -                 -          -          -          -          -
Private                                           6.1         7.9        9.8       11.2        -                -          -          -          -          -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)              23.3        16.6       15.8       17 3      19.6             16.7       15.2       14.5       14.9        15.0
Official                                         26.2        20.4       19.4       19.1        -                -          -          -          -          -
Private                                          13.8         8.6        9.2        9 4        -
As 2 of Debt Oststatad iog
at End of Most RecE,nt
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Amortization due within 5 years                                             36.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                            64.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Interest due within first year                                               4.5
i1  Preliminary estimates for 1981.
/2 Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982) a/
US$ Mi±iion
Loan or                                                                                                     amouni (less
Credit                                                                                                      Cancellation)
Number       Year             Borrower                       Purpose                               Bank        IDA d/  Undisbursed
Thirty-one Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                      249.85       69.96
1068         1974      Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Rehabilitation                  12.20                    2.39
1088         1975      Republic of Tunisia             Urban Sewerage                              28.00                    1.45
1155         1975      Republic of Tunisia             Third Education                              8.60                    4.14
1188         1975      Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                             28.00                   15.18
1340         1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                     12.00                    1.45
1431         1977      Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                      42.00                   12.27
1445         1977      SONEDE                          Fourth Water Supply                         21.00                    7.88
1504         1977      BDET                            Development Finance Company                 30.00                    2.81
1505         1977      Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development             5.00                    i.75
1601         1978      Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)                32.00                   23.47
1675         1979      Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Sewerage                      26.50                   21.2L
1702         1979      SONEDE                          Fifth Water Supply                          25.00                    5.78
1705         1979      Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Development                   19.00                   16.06
1746         1979      Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                            28.50                   24.25
1796         1980      Republic of Tunisia              Southern Irrigation                        25.00                   24.03
1797         1980      Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                     42.50                   lb.41
1841         1980      Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Highways                             36.50                   35.4b
1864         1980      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz         Second Natural Gas Pipeline                 37.00                  2o.84
1885         1980      Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                      30.00                   28.19
1961         1981      Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                            26.00                   25.97
1969         1981      Republic of Tunisia              Small-Scale Industry Development           30.00                   30.00
1997         1981      Republic of Tunisia             Northwest Rural Development                 24.00                   24.00
2003         1981      Socidte Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz         Third Power                                 41.50                  41.47
2005         1981      Republic of Tunisia              Health and Population                       12.50                  12.50
2012         1981      Republic of Tunisia              Textile Rehabilitation                     18.60                   17.09
2052         1981      Republic of Tunisia              Grain DistriDution and Storage             42.00                   42.00
2108 b/      1982      Republic of Tunisia              Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)                35.50                   35.50
2113         1982      BDET                             Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                       30.5U
2134         1982      SONEDE                           Sixth Water Supply                         30.50                   30.50
2157 b/      1982      Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Development                     22.00                   22.00
2197 c/      1982      Republic of Tunisia              Technical Assistance                        4.50                    4.50
TOTAL                                                                    1,056.25      b9.96      587.05
Of which has been repaid                                                   110.21       6.91
Total now outstanding                                                      946.04      63.05
Amount Sold                             14.33
of which has been repaid               13.18                                1.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA d/                                          944.89      b3.05
Total Undisbursed                                                          587.05                 587.05
a/  Does not include the Third Urban Development Project,loan of $25 million approved December 16, 1982, or the Fifth
Education Project, loan of $27 million approved December 23, 1982.
b/  Not yet effective
c/ Signed on October 29, 1982; not yet effective
d/ Prior to exchange rate adjustement



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIL (as of September 30, 1982) a/
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                      Type o:r Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                    FertiliLzers            2.0    1.5       3.5
1966     Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)                Dev. Finance Co.        8.0    Z.2      10.2
1970     Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Societe Touristique            Tourism                 1.6    0.3        1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975     Societe d'Etudes et            Tourism                 2.5    0.6       3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques           Chemicals                      0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                           Dev. F:xnance Co.              1.2        1.2
Total Gross Commitments                              14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                   9.3    1.8       11.1
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                 4.8    5.8       10.6
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                     0.0    0.0        0.0
a/ In addition, IFC approved on June 17, 1982 (but has not yet signed) a
$38.3 million loan package to COFIT of which about $20 million equivalent
is from IFC's own account.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of September 30, 1982) a/
Amount in uS$ Million
Year     Obligator                     Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                   Fertilizers             2.0    1.5       3.5
1966     Societe Nat. d'Invest.        Dev. Finance Co.                0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)               Dev. Finance Co.        8.0    2.2      10.2
1970     Societe Nat. d'Invest.        Dev. Finiance Co.               0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Socidt6 Touristique           Tourism                 1.6    0.3       1.9
et Hoteliare RYM SA
1975     Societe d'Etudes et           Tourism                 2.5    0.6       3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
l974     Industries Chimiques          Chemicals                      0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                          Dev. Finance Co.                1.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                             14.1    7.6       21.7
Less Cancellations,                                  9.3    1.8       11.1
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                4.8    5.8       10.6
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                    0.0    0.0        0.0
a/ In addition, IFC approved on June 17, 1982 (but has not yet signed) a
$38.3 million loan package to COFIT of which about $20 million equivalent
is from IFC's own account.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974;  Date of Effectiveness:  September 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, lack of on-farrn development, and poor water
management.   Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investuments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities
was less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not
built because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was
to construct and manage it. About $0.5 million of funds allocated for
credit are expected not to be used and to be cancelled after the Closing
Date. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by
mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greenhouses is
encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; August 15, 1975; Closing
Date; December 15, 1982.
The project is now completed. Its major achievement is the
cleaning up of the Lake of Tunis where, before the project, more than half
of the sewage collected in Tunis was discharged with little or no
treatment. Under this project, the sewer system in the central area of
Tunis has been recalibrated, one existing treatment plant was rehabilitated
and extended, and two additional treatment plants were erected. In
addition, a canal along the northern bank of the Lake has been dug and
collects today all stormwater and sewage which used to overflow under heavy
rains. The major benefits of the project are the improvement of the
environment and of the sanitary situation of Tunis, and the related release
of land around the Lake which is now developed by a governmental agency.
Ln. 1155;       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of il
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, ard increase technical assis-
tance. As a result, the Bank loan was decrEased by $0.3 million to $8.6
million, to cover the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily according to the
revised schedule, with a slight delay of about three months in construction
works.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; CLosing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Harmnamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed.  The remaining construction works on
other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there
is a difficult problem of expropriation wilL not be undertaken as part of
the project. All studies under the project have been completed and their
results are being implemented. A loan balaace, due to appreciation of the
dollar since loan approval, may be cancelled.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness. July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 89 percent of the loan amount is disbursed. Subloans to
commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors are fully disbursed.
Subloans to small and medium farmers are fully committed and expected to be
fully disbursed by the Loan's Closing Date. Disbursements for subloans to
farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm plantations have
begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in progress and
plantation is also progressing satisfactorily for three of the six
associations. However, drilling of artesian wells for the remaining three
associations is suffering some delays, and the category may not be fully
disbursed before the Closing Date.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The first



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by mid-1983. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. A b km
section was commissioned in June 1981, and a second section of 34 additional
km is expected to be commissioned in 1983, in time for the reinforcement in
the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak consumption period.
Works on the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is
scheduled to start during the current cropping season.  Works on the Medjez
el Bab perimeter of 3,800 ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are
expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Contracts for works for the
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been
awarded; the anticipated completion date is end-1983. The irrigation
component is experiencing important cost overruns, but because of
Government's willingness to take action, no financing difficulties are
foreseen.
Ln. 1445:      Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in 1983.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1979; Closing Date:  June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway ;.n all the eight provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, with the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries. A Government request to expand the project to cover three
additional provinces has been approved.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing according to schedule.
Thirty-one contracts have been awarded for a total dollar equivalent of
US$50.2 million. Bank's commitments amount to US$20.8 million. Tenders for
civil works of the Choutrana Treatment Plant have been invited.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date.  December 31, 1983.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
should be completed in mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already
in operation.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The civil works are advancing well in Sfax and less satifactorily
in Tunis. Problems related to site acquisition were recently solved and
efforts are being taken to reduce cost overruns in core housing
construction. About 40% of the civil works are completed. The solid waste
component is still at a standstill due to nanagerial problems at the
District of Tunis. The technical assistance and studies are advancing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:, May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory.  Procuremaent of boat hulls is underway and
bid awards for boat engines have been made.  Cold storage and ice making
plants for existing ports have been procured and bidding for civil works
superstructure at three new ports is underway.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. 1796;       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work will be underway on 11 of the 16 project perimeters before the
end of 1982.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date; June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are now progressing satisfactorily.
Dredging operations are completed and the precasting of cellular caissons
started early in 1982.  Some delay was experienced in the settlement of the
reclaimed area, but this should not affect the project's completion date of
June 1984. Initial concrete casting problems at Sfax are now solved and the
new quay is being erected. The area occupied by the Navy has not yet been
vacated which might reduce slightly the length of the shallow-draft berth.
Civil works there are about 5 months behind schedule and completion is
expected by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both ports.
Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. The study on workshops
reorganization and maintenance procedures is conducted by a group of
consultants (local and foreign) to which the contract was awarded.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. The 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders have been awarded for
civil works. Road maintenance equipment is being delivered.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The first branch pipeline to
Tunis has been completed and other branches will be completed during 1982.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980,; Date of Effectiveness; June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) for medium and
long-term credit to small and medium farmer;, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-industries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives and comnuercial farmers. However,
because Government funds are also available for similar purposes to farmers
and agro-industries under other programs which, unlike the Bank-financed
program, offer subsidies, disbursements are below the expected level.
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily.
The first phase of construction has already been tendered. All the final
lists of furniture and equipment have been completed and the programs
reviewed, all but one package being retendered. The Government executing
agency (OTTEEFP) has already reviewed proposals on the technical assistance
to aid in reinforcing the management logistics and programs of the network
of vocational centers, and has retained and approved one of the proposals.
Ln. 1969;       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects. No commitments to
date.
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date. September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help fi:nance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,



36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
and the development of extension, research, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network, and improving the
supply of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:      Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date; December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: Nvlay 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under Bank loan have recently been commissioned
and are running on three shifts. Technical assistance is progressing
satisfactorily. Financial performance of the primary beneficiary of the
Bank loan (SOGITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of



- 37-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cereals (0C); and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and has not yet
been issued as a result of 0C's difficulties in recruiting consulting
engineers. Procurement by SNCFT of rail hopper cars and materials for
construction of silo railway sidings is underway. Consultants for technical
assistance in management and finance have been recruited by 0C.
Ln. 2108;      Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14, 1982;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be provided. Measures
to create a Project Coordinating Committee are being taken.
Ln. 2113:      Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) will
provide a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and
mechanical industries and for general purpcse lending to industry in
Tunisia. The remainder of this loan will be used by the Tunisian Government
to provide technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for
Mechanical Industries, and a National Institute of Standardization and
Quality Control for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on
effective protection.
Loan 2134:     Sixth Water Supply Project; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 20, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections. Thirteen subprojects
that would be implemented in 30 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of US$1.24 mi]lion have been placed for three
of the subprojects, and works on two of the contracts have started. Bidding
for civil works for the remaining subprojects is under way.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. 2157.      Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness:
January 6, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and marketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebhana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies for the $55.1 million project, the Medjerda Valley
Development Agency and the Nebhana Development Agency, expect to increase
the production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. Some 7,800 farmers from the two areas will benefit from the
improvements to be made under the project. The project will also provide
farm access roads, fruit and vegetable processing centers, cold stores and
milk collection centers.
Loan. 2197:    Technical Assistance Project; US$ 4.5 million loan of October
29, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness; January 28, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance in identifying and
preparing investment projects and formulating policies for Tunisia's
agriculture, industry and energy sectors. The capabilities of the
institutions involved in these sectors will be improved, and assistance in
the start-up of a new agricultural promotion agency will be provided.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
CENTRAL TUNISIA IRRIGATION PROWJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:            20 months (October 1980 - May 1982)
(b)  The agency which prepared
the project:                       Government and FAO/CP
(c)  Project first identified
by the Bank.                       September/October 1980
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:  June 1982
(e)  Negotiations;                      December 16-21, 1982
(f)  Planned date of loan
effectiveness:                     July 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)    An agreement would be signed between the farmers and the Offices
upon completion of rehabilitation works in already existing PPIs,
and prior to starting up irrigation in new PPIs, and a framework
to form de jure water users' associations would be adopted by
December 31, 1986 (paras. 56-57);
(ii)   For each new PPI, a decree creat:ing the PPI and defining the 6ize
of land holdings and farmer cont:ributions to investments would be
adopted by January 31, 1985, and provisional delimitation of plots
would be completed before starting irrigation works (para. 58);
(iii)  The Offices would prepare, by June 30, 1985, and implement
thereafter an input supply financing plan acceptable to the Bank
(para. 59);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   The Offices would provide action plans for their marketing units
by December 31, 1983, charge fees for fruit, vegetable and milk
collection centers which progressively cover their real costs of
operation and maintenance (including transport), and submit, by
June 30, 1986, and implement thereafter a plan and a timetable for
either transferring management of the centers to cooperatives or
for leasing them to private operators (para. 59);
(v)    A system of cost accounts and funding for each activity performed
by the Offices would be established by December 31, 1984, the
Government would analyze annually the O&M costs of the Offices'
irrigation systems, and budgetary funding for OIM in amounts
acceptable to the Bank would be provided each year under a
specially earmarked item (para. 60); and
(vi)   The Offices would implement a program of progressively increasing
water charges in order to achieve 100 percent O&M cost recovery by
December 31, 1989. It would also submit to the Bank by June 30,
1984 a proposal for differential water charges that would provide
farmers with sufficient incentives to produce winter crops (para.
61).



_________________ _____   ___________ _________________IBRD                                                  16644
-    -------                                                                                                     NOV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  EIEMBER 1582
(LE KEF                                                                                                                                                                                      TUNISIA
SILI                                                                                                       SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE
i(0E0 \ \Xx ~% ; YbLh0 (t) <                                                                                                                                                        IRRIGATION PROJECT
MAKT-N,3bHAL I  (rAM ((ES AO lIF ERS
AI7;BR19' PEA' Tt'RA' SUBDIVISIONS
TU SOUSSE                               ~~~~~~~~NE(9MARKETING CFNTER
OA'                 MDC                                                                                                                                                                ARKFTING CEFNTER TO BE E ljIPPKD
K                         'At   -1.                                                                                                                                                                   S       /  n   Fc,  APR TD  . CRFATED
PI'l 10 BE REHABIL TATEr
\E'A EEI EKSION CEO I ER (CTV
EXTENSION CENTER TO BE COMPLETED
n                                                                                                        A(',<,ES D ,ES E ARCH 0E TIE R
D                                                                                     Nq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARS ROADS
-         ,,,,,IMPROVSRAVEI -(OADS
PROJECT ROADS - KS i KASSLHINE  <R  E A EIUR'
1K      DORERNODATE CAICA LS
RORERNODATE ROUNSARILS
~~~~~3                                                                        1-11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I''  NATICRNAL BOEUNDARY
0             20              40             60
ill ~  ~      ~      Kioetr
GAF                                                                                  -f.,   ~f"' I-- ` li~ i i "I""           d--i-l- ,,,,, h,              AL GERIA
B    8                                                                    15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    



