OFRCIAL LOAN NOMBER 2234 TUN
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Central Tunisia Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE DE MISE EN VALEUR DES PERIMETRES
IRRIGUES DE KAIROUAN
Dated    Fe 6- af -, 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER.2234 TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   FewrL'.o     .      , 1983, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and OFFICE DE MISE EN VALEUR DES PERIMETRES
IRRIGUES DE KAIROUAN (hereinafter called OMIVAK).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million
five hundred thousand dollars ($16,500,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement but only on condition
that OMIVAK agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to OMIVAK,
on a grant basis, out of the proceeds of the Loan, the amounts
allocated for the execution of Part A of the Project;
WHEREAS OMIVAK, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitione.
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. OMIVAK shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) OMIVAK undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by OMIVAK to replace or repair such goods.
(b) OMIVAK shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) OMIVAK shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b)  OMIVAK: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part .A of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)  Upon the award by OMIVAK of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.


﻿-3-
(d)   Promptly after -completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between OMIVAK and
the Bank, OMIVAK shall prepare and furnish through MA to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
Part A of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by OMIVAK and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.05. (a) OMIVAK shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)  OMIVAK shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by OMIVAK of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.06. OMIVAK shall: (a) furnish to the Bank for
approval by September 30, 1984 or such later date as the Bank may
agree draft terms and conditions of an agreement between OMIVAK
and farmers of the PPI's referred to in Part A (1) and (2) of the
Project defining the rights and obligations of OMIVAK and such
farmers; and
(b)  take all action necessary to conclude, after approval
by the Bank of the draft terms and conditions referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than (i) the time of
completion of the rehabilitation works in the PPI's referred to
in Part A (1) of the Project; and (ii) the start of operations of
the irrigation system in the PPI referred to in Part A (2) of the
Project; agreements with farmers of such PPI's defining the
rights and obligations of farmers and OMIVAK.
Section 2.07. OMIVAK shall by December 31, 1984 or such
later date as the Bank may agree establish cost accounting and
cost allocation systems satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 2.08. OMIVAK shall, by September 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Bank may agree, review in cooperation with the


﻿-4-
Borrower and the Bank progress under the pilot schemes to be
carried out under Part A (12) of the Project; and shall, promptly
after such review, take all action agreed upon between OMIVAK,
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.09. OMIVAK shall, not later that June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank may agree, submit to the Bank for its
approval a long-term agricultural input supply and financing
plan; and shall, promptly after approval thereof by the Bank,
take all action necessary to implement such plan.
Section 2.10. OMIVAK shall furnish to the Bank by Decem-
ber 31, 1983 or such later date as the Bank may agree a plan for
the establishment of a marketing unit for agricultural products
of the OMIVAK Project Area.
Section 2.11. OMIVAK shall establish fees for the use of the
centers referred to in Part A (8) and A (11) of the Project at
such levels as shall enable OMIVAK to recover progressively the
full cost of operation and maintenance of such centers.
Section 2.12. OMIVAK shall submit to the Bank for its
approval, by June 30, 1986 or such later date as the Bank may
agree, a plan, including a timetable, for the transfer of the
management of the collection centers referred to in Part A (8)
and A (11) of the Project to cooperatives or for the leasing of
such collection centers to private operators; and shall, promptly
after approval thereof by the Bank, take all action necessary to
implement such plan.
Section 2.13. OMIVAK shall: (i) increase water charges in
the OMIVAK Project Area progressively in order to achieve by
December 31, 1989 or such later date as the Bank may agree the
full recovery of all operating and maintenance costs of the
irrigation systems in PPI's in the OMIVAK Project Area; and (ii)
review with the Borrower and the Bank by September 30 of
each year starting 1984 the proposed next year's budget for the
operation   and  maintenance   of  OMIVAK's   irrigation   system,
including an assessment of expected revenues from water charges
for such year.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OMIVAK
Section 3.01. OMIVAK shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,


﻿-5-
financial and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. OMIVAK shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and shall
make promptly   as needed   all necessary   repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. OMIVAK shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) OMIVAK shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices   its operations and finp.cial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoin., separate Project
Accounts reflecting its operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part A of the Project, separate sub-accounts reflect-
ing its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
centers referred to in Part A (8) and Part A (11) of the Project
and separate sub-accounts reflecting all expenditures on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
(b)  OMIVAK shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account 'on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. OMIVAK shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon -as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, (a)


﻿-6-
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (b) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors: (A) on the separate Project
Accounts and sub-accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement; (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, and the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the *Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of OMIVAK thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify OMIVAK thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-7-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OMIVAK:
Office de Mise en Valeur des
P6rim&tres Irrigues de
Kairouan
Rue Khmayes Tarmene
Kairouan
Tunisia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of OMIVAK may be taken or executed by its
President Directeur General or such other person or persons as
its Pr6sident Directeur General shall designate in writing, and
OMIVAK shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By j19A.1h.
Regional Vice President
Europe, Midle East and North Africa
OFFICE DE MISE EN VALEUR DES PERIMETRES
IRRIGUES DE KAIROUAN
ByAuhrie                          Rpesnatv
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    ffL   day of         198 .
FOR SECRETARY


