OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2234 TUN
DOCU ME NTS
Loan Agreement
(Central Tunisia Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   Fe. b  v%j   2..          , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2234 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated F-4erLOVA-4J 2 , 1983, between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Project will be carried out in part by Office de
D6veloppement de la Tunisie Centrale and Office de Mise en Valeur
des P6rimetres Irrigu6s de Kairouan with the Borrower's assis-
tance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Office de Developpement de la Tunisie Centrale and
Office de Mise en Valeur des P'rimetres Irrigues de Kairouan the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and Office de
Developpement de la Tunisie Centrale and Office de Mise en Valeur
des Perimetres Irrigues de Kairouan, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "ODTC" means the Office de Developpement de la Tunisie
Centrale, an etablissement public a caractere industriel et
commercial established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 78-43 of August 1, 1978, as amended;
(b)  "OMIVAK" means the Office de Mise en Valeur des Peri-
m'tres Irrigues de Kairouan, an etablissement public I caractare
industriel et commercial established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Law No. 80-32 of May 24, 1980, as amended;
(c)  "ODTC Project Area" means the areas served by ODTC in
the Kasserine, Gafsa and Siliana Governorates of the Borrower;
(d)  "OMIVAK Project Area" means the areas served by OMIVAK
in the Kairouan Governorate of the Borrower;
(e) "PPI" means a public irrigation perimeter;
(f)   "ODTC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and ODTC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and as such term includes all sched-
ules to the ODTC Project Agreement and all agreements supplemen-
tal to the ODTC Project Agreement;
(g)  "OMIVAK Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and OMIVAK of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and as such term includes all sched-
ules to the OMIVAK Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the OMIVAK Project Agreement;
(h) "MA" means the Borrowe-r's Ministry of Agriculture;
(i) "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(j)    "DGPC" means the Direction G6nerale des Ponts et
Chaussees, a directorate established and operating within MPW;
(k)   "BNT" means Banque National de Tunisie, a Societe
Anonyme incorporated and operating under the Borrower's Code du
Commerce promulgated by Law No. 98-129 of October 5, 1959, as
amended, and under its Statuts filed with the R6gistre du Com-
merce at Tunis, as amended; and
(1)   "Dinar" or the sign "DT" means the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six-
teen million five hundred thousand dollars ($16,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2 04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred twenty-two thousand eight hundred
twenty-nine dollars ($122,829).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Dat      4-the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for


﻿-4-
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate for all Interest Periods commencing in 1982 shall
be 11.43% per annum.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall:


﻿-5-
(i)  cause BNT to carry out Part D of the Project in
cooperation with OMIVAK and ODTC;
(ii) cause MPW's DGPC to carry out Part C (1) of the
Project in cooperation with OMIVAK, and Part C (2)
of the Project in cooperation with ODTC; and
(iii) cause ODTC and OMIVAK to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the ODTC Project Agreement
and the OMIVAK Project Agreement, respectively,
all the obligations of ODTC and OMIVAK therein set
forth;
and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ODTC, OMIVAK, BNT and DGPC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such per-
formance.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) make available to OMIVAK, on a grant basis, out of
the proceeds of the Loan, for the purposes of
carrying out Part A of the Project, the amounts
allocated under Categories (1), (3), (6) and (10)
of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule
1 of this Agreement; and
(ii) make available to ODTC, on a grant basis, out of
the proceeds of the Loan, for the purpose of
carrying out Part B of the Project, the amounts
allocated under Categories (2), (4), (7) and (11)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause BNT to provide the
agricultural credit referred to in Part D of the Project to far-
mers in the OMIVAK Project Area and the ODTC Project Area under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall allocate to DGPC in each year such funds as shall be


﻿-6-
necessary for the maintenance of the rural roads improved under
the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to assist OMIVAK, ODTC and DGPC in
the execution of Part A, Part B and Part C of the Project,
respectively, the Borrower shall: (a) cause MA to employ (i) by
December 31, 1983 or such later date as the Bank may agree ex-
perts in communication and farmer organization, financial manage-
ment and monitoring and evaluation of Project execution; and (ii)
as and when needed, experts in agricultural input supply, in mar-
keting and in cooperative development; and (b) cause DGPC to
employ, as and when needed, engineering experts; such experts to
have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank, and to be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause DGPC to furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Part C of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b)  The Borrower: (i) shall cause DGPC to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
Part C of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the works financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
construction sites included in Part C of the Project and to exa-
mine the works financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall cause MA to
prepare with the assistance of DGPC, and furnish to the Bank, a


﻿-7-
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of Part C
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause OMIVAK aid ODTC to
establish by December 31, 1984 or such later date as the Bank may
agree, cost accounting and cost allocation systems satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall review with the Bank by
September 30 of each year starting 1984 the proposed next year's
budget for the operation and maintenance of OMIVAK and ODTC's
irrigation systems, including an assessment of expected revenues
from water charges for such year.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, starting in 1984,
make annual allocations of funds for the purpose of maintaining
OMIVAK's and ODTC's irrigation systems in amounts satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall include the funds allocated pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section in a separate
category of the OMIVAK and ODTC annual budgets.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) by January 31, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank may agree (i) take or cause to be
taken all necessary action to define maximum land holdings satis-
factory to the Bank in the PPI's referred to in Part A (2) and B
(2) of the Project; and (ii) determine for farmers in the PPI's
referred to in Part A (2) and B (2) of the Project a contribution
to the cost of irrigation investments satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) complete before the start of irrigation works in the
PPI's referred to in Part A (2) and B (2) of the Project the pro-
visional delimitation of plots in such PPI's.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank may agree, take or cause to be taken
all action necessary to establish a framework satisfactory to the
Bank for the establishment of water users' associations.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary to enable OMIVAK and ODTC to fulfill their


﻿-8-
obligations under Section 2.13 (i) of 'the OMIVAK Project Agree-
ment and Section 2.12 (i) of the ODTC Project Agreement, respec-
tively.
Section 3.12. In order to provide farmers with adequate in-
centives to produce winter crops, the Borrower shall, by June 30,
1984 or such later date as the Bank may agree, submit to the Bank
for its review proposals for different rates per season for water
charges in the OMIVAK Project Area and the ODTC Project Area and
shall, promptly after such review, take all action agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause the aquifers in the
OMIVAK Project Area and the ODTC Project Area to be inspected in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and shall
provide the Bank all such information about the aquifers in the
OMIVAK Project Area and the ODTC Project Area as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make ex-
press provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-9-
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower   of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and _ any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar fu.act..on3   for t1e Ba -
rower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) cause DGPC to estab-
lish and maintain Project accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Part C of the Project, including without limitation to the
foregoing separate sub-accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(b) cause DGPC to retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DGPC to: (i) have its
separate Project accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance  with  appropriate   auditing  principles  consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in aT.y case not
later than six months after the end of each suchM year: the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors:
(A) on the sub-accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this
Agreement; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and withdrawn from


﻿- 10 -
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purposes for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
Project accounts, records, expenditures, and the audit thereof,
as the Bank shall from time to time request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   ODTC and OMIVAK shall have failed to perform any of
their obligations under the ODTC Project Agreement and the OMIVAK
Project Agreement, respectively.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that DGPC, ODTC and OMIVAK
will be able to perform their respective obligations under this
Loan Agreement, the ODTC Project Agreement and the OMIVAK Project
Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower's Law No. 78-43 of August 1, 1978 shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of ODTC to perform
any of its obligations under the ODTC Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower's Law No. 80-32 of May 24, 1980 shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of OMIVAK to perform
any of its obligations under the OMIVAK Project Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ODTC and OMIVAK or for the suspension of their opera-
tions.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿- 11 -
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and ODTC and OMIVAK.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Sect,on 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the ODTC Project Agreement shall have been executed and
delivered on behalf of ODTC and shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate or administrative action;
and
(b)   the OMIVAK Project Agreement shall have been executed
and delivered on behalf of OMIVAK and shall have been duly autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary corporate or administrative
action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions .to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the ODTC Project Agreement has -been duly autho-
rized or ratified by ODTC, and is legally binding upon ODTC      in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the OMIVAK Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by OMIVAK, and is legally binding upon OMIVAK
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    NA-      2t *      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist're du Plan et des Finances
Place Ali Zouaoui
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE DU PLAN ET DES          MIPLAN
FINANCES                     12 117 TUN
Tunis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 13 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By C      .   .  (0~
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  650,000               40%
(other than
Irrigation
Works) under
Part A (5), (6),
(8), (11) and
(12) of the
Project
(2) Civil Works                  150,000               40%
(other than Irri-
gation Works)
under Part B (3)
and (8) of the
Project
(3) Irrigation Works           5,550,000          100% of foreign
and Irrigation                               expenditures
Equipment under                              and 50% of
Part A (1), (2),                              local expendi-
(3) and (9) of                               tures for items
of the Project                               procured
locally
(4) Irrigation Works           3,700,000          100% of foreign
and Irrigation                               expenditures
Equipment under                               and 50% of
Part B (1) and                                local expendi-
(2) of the                                   tures for items
Project                                      procured
locally


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Rural Road                2,000,000          40%
Rehabilitation
(6) Equipment                 1,200,000    )     100% of foreign
and Vehicles                           )    expenditures
under Part A                           )    and 50% of
(4), (5), (6),                        )     local expendi-
(7), (8), (10),                       )     tures for items
(11) and (12)                         )     procured
of the Project                         )    locally
(7) Equipment and               500,000    )
Vehicles under                         )
Part B (3), (4),                       )
(5),  (6),  (7)                       )
and (8) of the                         )
Project                                )
(8) Consultant                  500,000    )     100% of foreign
Services                               )    expenditures
)     and 65% of
)     local expendi-
)     tures for ser-
)     vices pro-
)     cured locally
(9) Rural Roads                 100,000    )
Studies                               )
(10) Studies and               200,000    )
Fellowships under                      )
Part A of the                          )
Project                                )
(11) Studies and                100,000    )
Fellowships under                      )
Part B of the                         )
Project                                )


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(12) Fee                         122,829          Amount Due
(13) Unallocated               1,727,171
TOTAL          16,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower..
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
diture prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $90,000 equivalent may be made in respect of Category (9) on
account of payments made for expenditures for rural road studies
before that date but after September 1, 1982.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   OMIVAK Project Area
(1) Rehabilitation of 28 PPI's, including:
(a) the electrification of pumping stations, the installa-
tion of electrical pumps, diesel motors and diesel
motor pumps, the installation of water meters and the
drilling of boreholes;
(b) the construction and rehabilitation of water reser-
voirs;
(c) the relevelling of canals, the replacement, repair and
lining of tertiary canals, together with the repair or
reconstruction of hydraulic structures and the replace-
ment of hydromechanical equipment; and
(d) the levelling of land, the rehabilitation of roads and
the installation of windbreaks.
(2) Establishment of 1 PPI at Henchir Jefna.
(3) Installation   of  about 20 piezometers    in  the  plain   of
Kairouan.
(4) Strengthening of OMIVAK's central machinery workshop through
the provision of workshop tools and the recruitment of about
17 staff.
(5) Strengthening of extension services through the recruitment
of about 17 extension agents, the construction of offices
and houses for extension agents, the acquisition of cars and
motorcycles for use by extension agents, the establishment
of demonstration plots, the establishment of an evaluation
and monitoring unit, and the provision of training to exten-
sion agents and fellowships to engineers.
(6) Construction, equipping and staffing of an applied research
support center.


﻿- 19 -
(7) Equipping and staffing of 2 mechanized farming units.
(8) Construction and    equipping  of 2 collection centers and
training of OMIVAK staff and OMIVAK Project Area farmers in
the management of the collection centers and the establish-
ment of marketing cooperatives.
(9) Acquisition of mobile equipment and spare parts to repair
pumps and irrigation equipment in the irrigation conveyance
system, and the recruitment of about 13 ..aff to handle such
equipment.
(10) Equipping and staffing of a Shallow Wells Support Unit in-
cluding 4 mobile teams.
(11) Construction and equipping of a veterinary station, con-
struction of dipping tanks, acquisition of vehicles and
equipment for artificial insemination teams and the con-
struction, equipping and staffing of 2 milk collection cen-
ters.
(12) Establishment of two pilot schemes for integrated rainfed
and irrigated fodder production at Oued Khtem and Zafranaa
III, respectively, including the recruitment of staff ser-
ving such schemes, the construction of water points, dipping
tanks and storage sheds, the construction and equipping of
offices and staff housing, and the acquisition of vehicles
for such staff.
(13) The carrying out of feasibility studies for investments in
the OMIVAK Project Area.
Part B:   ODTC Project Area
(1) Rehabilitation of 9 PPI's, including:
(a) the electrification of pumping stations, the installa-
tion of electrical pumps, diesel motors and diesel
motor pumps, the installation of water meters, and the
drilling of boreholes;
(b)  the construction and rehabilitation of water reser-
voirs;


﻿- 20 -
(c) the relevelling of canals, replacement, repair and lin-
ing of tertiary canals, together with the repair or
reconstruction of hydraulic structures and the replace-
ment of hydromechanical equipment; and
(d) the levelling of land, the rehabilitation of roads and
the installation of windbreaks.
(2)' Establishment of 4 PPI's, at Ain Hdia, Mzira I, Mzira II and
Feriana.
(3) Strengthening of extension services through the recruitment
of about 11 extension agents, the cnstruction of offices
and houses for extension agents, the acquisition of cars and
motorcycles for use by extension agents, the establishment
of demonstration plots, the establishment of an evaluation
and monitoring unit, and the provision of training to
extension agents and fellowships to engineers.
(4) Equipping and staffing of a mechanized farming unit.
(5) Equipping of 3 collection centers and training of ODTC staff
and ODTC Project Area farmers in the management of the
collection  centers  and   the  establishment  of  marketing
cooperatives.
(6) Acquisition of mobile equipment and spare parts to repair
pumps and irrigation equipment in the irrigation conveyance
system, and the recruitment of about 11 staff to handle such
equipment.
(7) Equipping and staffing of a Shallow Wells Support Unit
including 3 mobile teams.
(8) Construction and equipping of a veterinary station, con-
struction of dipping tanks, and acquisition of vehicles and
equipment for artificial insemination teams.
(9) The carrying out of feasibility studies for investments in
the ODTC Project Area.
Part C:   DGPC           /
(1) Rehabilitation of about 90 km of rural roads serving the
OMIVAK Project Area.


﻿- 21 -
(2) Rehabilitation of about 40 km of rural roads serving the
ODTC Project Area.
Part D:   BNT
Provision of about $4,800,000 equivalent in agricultural
credit, through BNT, to farmers in the OMIVAK Project Area
and the ODTC Project Area for, inter alia, the acquisition
of mobile pipes, pumps, tractors, and cross-bred heifers,
the construction of reservoirs and animal sheds and the
rehabilitation of wells.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1987
through   November 1, 1999                 635,000
On   May 1, 2000                                 625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿-24-
SCREDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare or cause
to be prepared and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto a general procurement notice in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles shall be grouped to the
extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in conection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall. then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 26 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, other than those referred to in Part E hereof,
may be carried out under contracts awarded in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Concrete flumes may be purchased directly under a negotiated
contract from the sole manufacturer; and pump electrification
works may be awarded under a negotiated contract to Societ6
Tunisienne de 1'Electricite et du Gaz.
3.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated       to cost
$150,000 equivalent or less each may be awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all con-
tracts so awarded by OMIVAK shall not exceed $1,000,000 equiva-
lent; and that the aggregate amount of all contracts so awarded
by ODTC shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
with respect to any contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more each, and with respect to any
contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.


﻿- 27 -
(b)  after bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c)   the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to any contract referred to in paragraph C.2 of
this Schedule:
(a)   the Borrower shall, before the signature of the con-
tract and in sufficient time for its review, furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Bank a copy of the contract and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank, if it
determines that the provisions of the contract are not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
(b) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraphs, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent


﻿- 28 -
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Minor civil works such as land leveling, upgrading of rural
roads, drainage improvements, installation of piezometers and
windbreak plantation may, after approval by the Bank, be carried
out by DGPC, OMIVAK or ODTC force account in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2c.Lday of       I.t, 198a.
FOR SECRETARY


