Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2444 
Operation Name 
Rural and Social Policy Reform Credit  
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General Public administration (20%); General Agriculture (20%); 
Primary education (20%); Other social services (20%); Health sector 
(20%) 
Project ID 
P096411 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Niger 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI  U [X]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
Date PID Prepared 
May 11, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 28 to April 11, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 13, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Niger is a vast landlocked Sahelian country of about 12 million inhabitants that is three-fourth desert. It is 
characterized as a small market and slow-growing economy.  Poverty remains widespread (64% in 2004) with a 
per capita income of less than US$230 per year and social indicators that compare poorly to the average in Sub-
Saharan Africa.  As in other African countries, poverty and extreme poverty are even more severe in rural areas 
where close to 80 percent of the population lives.  Economic development has been constrained by lack of natural 
resources, a degrading natural environment, high population growth and low institutional capacity. Main 
development challenges include: desertification and recurrent droughts, sky-rocketing demographic growth, low 
agricultural productivity, the lowest human development 
in the world (according to UNDP’s Human 
Development Index), and a highly centralized public finance management system.  
 
Three years ago, Niger started a serious effort to improve its public expenditure management. The successful 
implementation of its reform program enabled Niger to reach the Completion Point under the Enhanced HIPC 
Initiative on April 12, 2004, and to receive additional debt relief in the amount of US$142 million.  At the same 
time, the PRSP identified a series of measures to be pursued, with a particular emphasis on priority sectors 
(education, health, rural development and transport).  The Bank has supported government efforts with a 
comprehensive lending and analytical program.  The proposed credit follows three one-year budgetary support 
credits that focused on improving the management of public expenditures, and it aims at continuing such efforts 
while adding emphasis on social and rural development.   
 
2. Proposed 
Objectives 
 
The proposed
 Rural and Social Policy Reform
 
Credit
 (
RSRC
)
is part of a series of two to three operations 
intended to help the Government of Niger improve service delivery to the poor while continuing reforms in public 
sector management to secure adequate financing in critical sectors of the economy.  Within this medium-term 
framework, and building on the previous three budget support operations as well as ongoing investment projects 
in agriculture, education, and health, this RSRC series will focus on overcoming policy constraints and 
institutional bottlenecks in: (i) public sector management;  (ii) growth and agricultural development; and (iii) 
human development, including demographic growth and gender issues.  Subsequent DPLs will continue to focus 
on the same policy areas while expanding the growth agenda. These objectives are closely aligned with the PRSP 
pillars: creating a macroeconomic environment that promotes strong and sustainable economic growth; 
developing the productive sectors, especially in rural areas, to reduce
 
vulnerability and increase
 
income 
generation; improving the poor’s access to quality social services; and strengthening institutional and individual 
capacity for good governance. 
Page  2
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed budget support operation is envisaged for US$ 50 million, and is expected to be disbursed in two 
fixed tranches. More specifically, the operation will focus on selected policy and institutional aspects related to: 
·
Improving public sector management by: (i) expanding reforms in public expenditure management (through 
increasing links between budget allocations and Government priorities as defined in PRSP, strengthening 
involvement of sectoral ministries in budget regulation and cash management, modernizing the Treasury, 
strengthening budget controls and improving the structure and functioning of the MEF); and (ii) enhancing 
the national statistical information system through insuring the preparation of national surveys on a regular 
basis. 
·
Promoting rural development and agricultural growth by:  (a) implementing the programs of the rural 
development strategy; b) promoting local governance of natural resources (agricultural land, irrigation water); 
(c) adopting a single MTEF for the four rural ministries; and (d) releasing funds allocated in the 2006 budget 
to ensure adequate food availability during the pre-harvest period.  
·
Improving service delivery in social sectors by: (i) enhancing human resource management; (ii) improving 
budget preparation and execution; (iii) enhancing accountability and governance at the school level; (iv) 
providing publicly financed basic health services to the poor and vulnerable groups; and (v) addressing 
demographic and gender dimensions.  
 
4. Environmental 
aspects 
 
Since this is a policy-reform operation, the standard classification used for PRSCs is applied for both 
environmental and safeguards issues. During the appraisal it was confirmed that no negative environmental 
impacts are expected from this operation.  The prior actions and triggers proposed under this operation (or the 
expected impact of their implementation) in public expenditure management and the social sectors are not likely 
to have any adverse impact on the environment.  The same applies to measures proposed in agriculture and rural 
development. Nevertheless, the reforms supported in the irrigation subsector require special attention that will be 
followed up with the assistance of donor-funded ongoing irrigation projects.  
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
US$50 million equivalent at standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a ten-year grace period.  Two fixed 
tranches. 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Setareh Razmara and Patrick Verissimo 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist and Sr. Sector Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2352 and 458-0783 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: 
Srazmara@worldbank.org
and 
Pverissimo@worldbank.org
7. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 473-8216 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  3
