Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2085 
Operation Name 
Rural and Social Sector Policy Reform Credit  
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General Agriculture (25%); General education sector (25%); 
Central government administration (25%); Other social services 
(25%) 
Project ID 
P096411 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Niger 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI  U [X]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
X] TBD 
Date PID Prepared 
January 11, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 15, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 13, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Niger is a vast landlocked Sahelian country of 14 million inhabitants that is three-fourth desert. It is 
characterized as a small market and slow-growing economy.  Poverty remains widespread (63%) with a 
per capita income of less than US$200 per year and social indicators that compare poorly to the average 
in Sub-Saharan Africa.  Main development challenges include: desertification and recurrent droughts, 
sky-rocketing demographic growth, low agricultural productivity, the lowest human development in the 
world (according to UNDP’s Human Development Index), and a highly centralized public finance 
management system.  
 
Three years ago, Niger started a serious effort to improve its public expenditure management. The 
successful implementation of its reform program enabled Niger to reach the Completion Point under the 
Enhanced HIPC Initiative on April 12, 2004, and to receive additional debt relief.  At the same time, the 
PRSP identified a series of measures to be pursued, with a particular emphasis on priority sectors 
(education, health, rural development and transport).  The Bank has supported government efforts with a 
comprehensive lending and analytical program.  The proposed credit follows three one-year budgetary 
support credits that focused on improving the management of public expenditures, and it aims at 
continuing such efforts while adding emphasis on social and rural development.   
 
2. Proposed Objectives 
 
The operation’s overall objectives are to (i) deepen the reforms in public finance management, (ii) 
increase the poverty reduction potential of public spending for social service delivery, and (iii) improve 
rural development, with a focus on sector strategy implementation including trade facilitation and land 
reform.  These objectives are closely aligned with the PRSP pillars: creating a macroeconomic 
environment that promotes strong and sustainable economic growth; developing the productive sectors, 
especially in rural areas, to reduce
 
vulnerability and increase
 
income generation; improving the poor’s 
access to quality social services; and strengthening institutional and individual capacity for good 
governance. 
 
Page  2
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed operation is expected to be a one-year, one-tranche budgetary support credit of $50 
million.  However, given the operation tight preparation schedule, the Bank mission will investigate 
options to disburse in two tranches. The new emphasis on human and rural development will 
complement efforts under ongoing sectoral investment projects by addressing common concerns (e.g., 
transparency, deconcentration and accountability) or specific regulatory issues (e.g., land tenure and 
minimum age for marriage) that may require more leverage than could be exercised by an individual 
ministry.  It is envisaged that the DPL will have three key reform areas: 
 
·
Public finance management,  to continue supporting the goals pursued under the previous public 
expenditure credit operations (Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit - PEAC I and II, and Public 
Expenditure Reform Credit and Grant - PERCG) as well as to implement the recommendations 
of the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR); 
 
·
Human development, to complement and support the ongoing investment operation in primary 
education, as well as the planned operations in health and population;  
 
·
Rural development, with a focus on implementing the sector strategy (RDS) action plans, and 
selected RDS programs linked to food security, livestock and land.  
 
4. Environmental aspects 
 
At present, no negative environmental impacts are expected from this operation.  In particular, policies 
pursued under the rural development component include measures to protect the environment.  At this 
stage, since this is a policy-reform operation, the standard classification used for PRSCs is applied for 
both environmental and safeguards issues. Should it be determined during project preparation that some 
measures could be prejudicial to the environment or cause resettlement; applicable fiduciary guidelines 
will be followed. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
US$50 million equivalent at standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a ten-year grace period.  One or 
two tranches. 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Setareh Razmara and Patrick Verissimo 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist and Sr. Sector Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2352 and 458-0783 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: 
Srazmara@worldbank.org
and 
Pverissimo@worldbank.org
7.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Page  3
Fax:  (202) 473-8216 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
