Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: 31768 
Project Name 
CN-Ningbo Water Management Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Water supply (50%); Sewerage (50%) 
Project ID 
P086505 
Borrower(s) 
NINGBO MUNICIPALITY 
Implementing Agency 
Ningbo Municipal Development Planning Commission 
--Ningbo Water Supply Company 
--Cixi Municipal Sewerage Company 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 26, 2005 (Latest Update) 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 22, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 17, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Ningbo Municipality is located approximately 150 kms south of Shanghai on the edge of 
Hangzhou Bay. Ningbo is the primary deep-water port for the Yangzte Delta region, and has a 
thriving industrial sector focused on the export of manufactured goods. Although part of 
Zhejiang Province, the Municipality is a separate economic planning unit and is not 
administratively controlled by the provincial government. The 
 
primary city in the Municipality 
is “Ningbo City” which extends over six urban districts and covers one quarter of the 
Municipality. The Municipality also includes three rural counties, and two city-level counties, 
one of which is called “Cixi City.” The Project finances investments in Ningbo City and Cixi 
City.  
 
A
key element in Ningbo’s economic success has been the development of a vibrant private 
sector. Ningbo’s entrepreneurial trading heritage, and the relative absence of large state-owned 
enterprises, has given local businesses an opportunity to take advantage of their favorable 
location on international shipping lanes and close proximity to the economically vibrant Yangtze 
Delta. The Municipal Government’s policy is to foster private sector investment, promote 
education and science, and provide high-quality infrastructure for the region. Investments in 
water infrastructure, however, have lagged behind rapid economic development.   
 
Ningbo is addressing water issues through a regional  approach, with establishment of a multi-
sector “Water and Environment Leading Group,” chaired by the Executive Municipal Vice 
Mayor and headed by the Municipal Development Planning Commission. The Leading Group is 
facilitating investments and management systems which cut across administrative boundaries to 
resolve Ningbo’s serious water and wastewater problems, including those in Ningbo and Cixi 
cities. 
 
Page  2
Ningbo City is facing a two dimensional water crisis: frequent shortages and poor water quality. 
Water companies draw water primarily from highly polluted local surface water sources and use 
outdated treatment technology, rendering the piped water of questionable quality. Water supply 
deficiencies pose a drag on economic growth and endanger public health. Outside the core urban 
area, there are numerous small water companies providing service to towns which are rapidly 
merging into one large urban conglomeration. The Ningbo Water Supply Company (NWSC) is a 
well established company serving the core urban area, but there is scope for improving its 
operational and financial performance. The Ningbo Municipal Government has started 
implementation of an ambitious program to develop high quality water supplies, transfer the 
water to Ningbo City, and upgrade water treatment and distribution infrastructure. The NWSC 
service area will be expanded to include all 2.5 million residents of Ningbo City, incorporating 
the surrounding town water supply systems, and thereby obtaining economies of scale and 
professional management.  
 
The areas surrounding Ninbgo City are experiencing rapid population and economic growth due 
to their relatively low cost of business and abundance of under-developed land. Cixi City, 
located north of Ningbo City on the shore of Hangzhou Bay has a population of around one 
million people and a dynamic economy.  Currently, only 10% of the wastewater in Cixi is 
treated, and the lack of an adequate wastewater management system is inhibiting potential 
investors, increasing pollution to Hangzhou Bay, and creating public health concerns. Cixi City 
plans to provide coverage to all urban areas and industries by 2010. A new company, the Cixi 
Municipal Sewage Company (CMSC) was established in mid-2004 to be responsible for all 
wastewater collection and treatment facilities. The CMSC management is facing the dual 
challenge of starting up a new company and managing a large capital works program. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Project development objective is to facilitate the expansion of water and wastewater services 
in Ningbo City and Cixi City in an economically efficient and environmentally sustainable 
manner, and thereby protect public health, improve the environment, and sustain the area’s rapid 
economic growth. The key indicators are: i) percent increase in water service reliability in 
Ningbo City; and ii) percent increase in municipal and industrial wastewater treated in Cixi City. 
 
The proposed Ningbo Water and Environment Project will address two key themes from the 
China Country Assistance Strategy:
i
i) accelerating the transition to a market economy through 
improving public sector management and delivery of services; and ii) facilitating an 
environmentally sustainable development process through better management of water resources. 
Two strategic issues for the Bank’s urban development program in China will be highlighted in 
the Project design: 
 
¾
A
focus on 
urban water planning and resource management
 where problems are 
reaching a crisis
 
level in many cities, including Ningbo. The Project will be the first 
major Bank-financed  urban water supply operation since the mid-1990s. 
 
¾
A
concentration on 
regional integration
 by providing water and wastewater 
infrastructure, and management systems that transcend administrative boundaries. 
Page  3
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The W
orld Bank has been a close partner in Ningbo’s water sector over the past decade. The 
Zhejiang Mulit-Cities Development Project (FY93) financed critical water supply infrastructure 
for Ningbo City, and the Zhejiang Urban Environment Project (FY03) is financing a significant 
portion of Ningbo City’s wastewater program. The Ningbo Water and Environment Project 
(NWEP) will finance additional investments for water supply in Ningbo City, and will support 
the first comprehensive wastewater management system outside of Ningbo City in neighboring 
Cixi City. 
 
With its strong economy, Ningbo has many financing options. The decision to seek World Bank 
financing is motivated primarily by the desire of municipal authorities to employ international 
methodologies, standards, and techniques to improve water and wastewater planning, 
construction, and service. In addition to the physical infrastructure, NWEP will finance technical 
assistance activities in water supply strategic planning, utility price and regulatory reforms, and 
operational improvements for both NWSC and CMSC. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project has the following three components: 
 
Component 1: Ningbo Water Supply
(US$157.9 million; IBRD-US$67.3 million):  The 
component includes: i)  raw water supply line consisting of an intake tower in Jiakou reservoir 
and a 9.6 km tunnel; ii) 500,000 m3/day Maojiaping water treatment plant; and iii) treated water 
transmission pipes, including a new 47 km ring main around Ningbo City and 29 kms of 
transmission pipes from Maojiaping water treatment plant to the new ring main. The component 
is a significant part of Ningbo’s overall plan to service the entire City, improve water quality by 
accessing new water sources and upgrade water treatment, and enhance distribution system 
reliability and flexibility. The ring main will be the first of its kind in China and will be one of 
the major technical innovations under the Project. 
 
Component 2: Cixi Wastewater
(US$128.4 million; IBRD-US$57.9 million): The component 
includes: i) two wastewater treatment plants, one located in  the north of Cixi (100,000 m3/day) 
and one in the east (50,000 m3/d); and ii) associated collection system mains and link sewers 
(230 km of pipe and 58 pump stations). The component will provide comprehensive wastewater 
services for all urban areas in Cixi City, and help protect Hangzhou Bay.   
 
Component 3: Institutional Development
(US$4.5 million; IBRD-US$4.1 million): Technical 
assistance will be provided to improve water planning, utility price and service regulation, and to 
enhance the NWSC and CMSC operational and business management capacities. Design review 
and construction management technical assistance will also be provided to ensure smooth 
implementation of the infrastructure works. 
 
Page  4
5. Financing 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER 161.5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
130.0 
 Total 
291.5 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The  Ningbo Municipal Development Planning Commission (MDPC) is the main executing 
agency for the project. The Project Management Office (PMO) is located under MRDC and is 
fully mobilized with sufficient and adequately qualified staff.  The PMO is the Bank’s primary 
liaison in the implementation of the project, and takes responsibility for project monitoring and 
reporting. There will be one special account located in and managed by the Ningbo Municipal 
Finance Bureau.  The PMO will authorize reimbursements to the two implementing entities, 
NWSC and CMSC. 
 
Policy direction for the project will be provided by the Water and Environment Leading Group.  
The Leading Group is headed by an Executive Vice Mayor of the Municipality and is composed 
of Directors from the MDPC, Environmental Protection Bureau, Water Resources Bureau, 
Construction Bureau, and Finance Bureau. The Leading Group’s mandate is to provide policy 
direction and planning support for integrated water and environmental management throughout 
the Municipality. 
 
NWSC is the implementing organization for Component 1. The company was legally established 
in 1982, but can trace its operating history back to 1926 with the City’s original water supply. 
The NWSC has created a Project Implementation Unit (PMU) under the direction of an Assistant 
Chief Engineer. The PMU is staffed with qualified procurement, financial management, 
environmental, and resettlement staff. NWSC is experienced in managing large capital 
investment projects and is also familiar with Bank procedures as the company received financing 
under the Zhejiang Multi-Cities Development Project (FY93). 
 
CMSC is the implementing organization for Component 2. The company  was legally established 
only in mid-2004. Staff and existing assets were transferred from the Cixi Drainage Department 
to the CMSC shortly afterwards. Since the NWEP represents essentially all of CMSC’s capital 
investment program, there is no distinct project management unit, rather the project is under the 
direct supervision of the CMSC General Manager, with the relevant departments providing 
procurement, financial management, environmental, and resettlement support. The CMSC has 
limited experience in managing large capital projects and is not familiar with Bank procedures. 
These constraints will be addressed through project financed technical assistance programs for 
project and company management. 
 
Page  5
Component 3 is aimed at a variety of government agencies and the two companies, NWSC and 
CMSC. The PMO will coordinate implementation of the component, but most activity will take 
place at the company or agency level. Government agencies involved in the component include 
the Cixi and Ningbo Price Bureaus, Ningbo State Asset Commission, Ningbo and Cixi 
construction commission, and the Water and Environment Leading Group. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Ningbo Municipality is strongly committed to the success of  the project as the future economic 
development of Ningbo City and Cixi City depend on successful project implementation. The 
degree of importance attached to the project is reflected in the active participation of high-level 
government officials in the Leading Group. The PMO has been established as a permanent 
government agency, and thus is able to attract qualified individuals who are offered job security 
and promotion potential. NWSC and CMSC have invested significant amounts of their own 
funds in project prepared and have prepared high quality feasibility studies, environmental 
assessments, and resettlement action plans. 
 
Financial sustainability of the companies is the key to project success. Ningbo City and Cixi City 
have demonstrated their commitment to ensuring adequate revenues for the companies by 
significantly increasing tariffs in 2004. Legal covenants for increasing tariffs in 2006 and 2008 
have also been agreed upon by the Municipal Government. Both NWSC and CMSC have well 
qualified technical staff  who can ensure efficient operation of the facilities.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Coastal cities in China, and particularly Ningbo City, are growing at a rapid pace which makes 
planning for utility services such as water and wastewater very challenging. Past experience in 
China has shown that demand is typically over-estimated, mainly due to lack of sophisticated 
planning techniques and inadequate consideration of price elasticity of demand. Original water 
demand estimates prepared by NWSC domestic consultants were not realistic. NWSC changed 
domestic consultants and prepared revised and reduced estimates, which were verified by 
independent international consultants. The short-term forecasts up to 2010 are acceptable to the 
Bank for project planning purposes. Long-term demand forecasts up to 2040, however, should 
need to be adjusted overtime to reflect changing conditions and modify capital investment 
programs accordingly. The Project will therefore assist Ningbo City with it’s long-term water 
supply planning, and prepare the basis for the next five year capital investment program from 
2010-2015. 
 
Both Cixi and Ningbo City are embarking on simultaneous large capital investment programs in 
water supply and wastewater. Water users receive a consolidated water and wastewater bill 
(although the two services are separated in the bill), and thus will experience a significant 
increase in overall water costs. Tariff increases in Ningbo, as throughout China, generally take 
considerable time to process, and lack of timely approval can increase company financial risk. 
The Project design takes this into account by requiring tariff increases in 2006 and 2008, and 
including a technical assistance component to upgrade the analytical tools and procedures used 
in tariff adjustments. 
Page  6
Advanced technologies for water and wastewater treatment are often used in China without 
considering the financial or operational implications. Advanced water treatment technologies 
were originally proposed for the Maojiaoping water treatment plant and the Cixi wastewater 
treatment plant (WWTP), but were subsequently revised to simply operations and reduce capital 
costs.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[x ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[x] [] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
“Ningbo Water Treatment, Transmission, and Water Supply Ring Main Project 
Feasibility Study,” November 2004. Prepared by Shanghai Municipal Engineering 
Design and Research Institute and Zhejiang Institute of Water Conservancy and 
Hydroelectric Power. 
 
2.  “Cixi Urban Sewage Treatment Stage 1 Project,” November 2004. Prepared by Shanghai 
Municipal Engineering Design Institute and South China Institute of Environmental 
Sciences. 
 
3.  “Ningbo Water and Environment Project-Design Review Advisory Report,” January 
2005. Prepared by Sogreah and SCE. 
 
4.  “Overview of Ningbo Urban Water Supply Development Plan,” April 2004. Prepared by 
Ningbo Water Supply Company. 
 
5.  “Ningbo Water and Environment Project-Consolidated Environmental Impact 
Assessment Report and Management Plan,” November 2004. Prepared by Sogreah and 
SCE. 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
6. 
“Ningbo Water Supply Component Environmental Impact Assessment Report,” 
November 2004. Prepared by China Academy of Environmental Science and Ningbo 
Environmental Science Institute. 
 
7.  “Cixi Sewerage Component Environmental Impact Assessment Report,” November 
2004. Prepared by Beijing Novel Environmental Protection Co. Ltd. 
 
8.  “Resettlement Action Plan and Summary Report” August 2004. Ningbo Water and 
Environment Project Management Office. 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Client Contact
:
Ms. Xu Xu 
Vice Director, World Bank Project Management Office 
1509/R, 15/F, Tianning Tower 
West Zhongshan Road Ningbo China 
Tel: 86-574-872-80409 
Fax: 86-574-872-80430 
E-Mail: xx@nbdpc.gov.cn 
 
World Bank Contact: 
Greg J. Browder 
Title: Senior Water Engineer 
Tel: (202) 473-0339 
Fax: (202) 614-0927 
Email: gbrowder@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
