Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4770-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ningbo Water and Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4770-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 2005, between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Ningbo (as defined in Section 1.02) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to Ningbo, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Ningbo (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) 
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Company, the 
amount of the Loan allocated from time to time to such Project Company pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Cixi City” means Cixi City, a county-level city within the jurisdiction of 
Ningbo Muncipality. 
(d) 
“Cixi RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the Sewage 
Treatment Plant in Cixi Urban Area of Ningbo Municipality, dated October 2004 and 
prepared by Ningbo, which sets out the principles and procedures governing the 
acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation 
of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part B of the Project, as well as 
monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(e) 
“CMSC” means Cixi Municipal Sewage Company Limited a state-
owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 
April 8, 2004, and to Business License No. 3302821004269 dated April 23, 2004, issued 
by Ningbo Muncipality Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
(f) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means 
any of such Displaced Persons. 
(g) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Ningbo Water and 
Environment Project Environmental Management Plan dated January 2005 prepared on 
behalf of Ningbo, which said plan sets out the environmental protection measures in
 
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
(h) 
“Ningbo” means Ningbo Municipality within Zhejiang Province, and any 
successor thereto. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(i) 
“Ningbo City” means the area encompassing the urban districts of 
Beilun, Haishu, Jiangdong, Jiangbei, Yinzhou, and Zhenhai, all within Ningbo 
Municipality. 
(j) 
“Ningbo RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan of Urban Water 
Supply Project of Ningbo Municipality, dated October 2004 and prepared by Ningbo, 
which sets out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other 
assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the execution of Part A of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(k) 
“NWSC” means Ningbo Water Supply Company, a state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter of April 1989 and to Business 
License No. 3302001002492 dated December 24, 2002, issued by Ningbo Municipality 
Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
December 2004 covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
(m) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Ningbo of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(n) 
“Project Companies” means, collectively, NWSC and CMSC; and 
“Project Company” means any of the Project Companies. 
(o) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
(i) 
CMSC, Parts B, C(1), C(5) and D of the Project; and 
(ii) 
NWSC, Parts A, C(1), C(2), C(4) and D of the Project;  
 (p) 
“Respective Resettlement Action Plan” means in respect of: 
(i) 
CMSC: Cixi RAP; and 
(ii) 
NWSC: Ningbo RAP. 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(r) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between Ningbo and each of CMSC (through Cixi City) and NWSC pursuant 
to paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said 
agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, individually, any of said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.  
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Ningbo, CMSC and NWSC. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
thirty million Dollars ($130,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in  
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollar for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
Page  8
-
6
-
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Ningbo to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Ningbo therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Ningbo 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Ningbo 
on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
Page  9
-
7
-
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Ningbo pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Ningbo to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Ningbo to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
Page  10
-
8
-
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Ningbo shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.  
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Ningbo will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have 
failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
Page  11
-
9
-
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, Ningbo shall have entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
with CMSC (through Cixi City) and NWSC satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:  
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Ningbo 
and is legally binding upon Ningbo in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding on 
said parties in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  12
-
10
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bei
jing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By: /s/ Ju Kuilin 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Works under: 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
 
49,180,000 
(b) Part B of the Project 
38,750,000 
 
)
)
50%
)
(2)  Goods under: 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
 
530,000 
(b) Part B of the Project 
550,000 
 
)
100% of foreign 
)
expenditures, 100% of 
)
local expenditures (ex- 
)
factory cost) and 75%  
)
of
local expenditures 
)
for other items 
)
procured locally 
(3)  Contracts for combined  
 
works and goods under:           
(a) Part A of the Project 
 
17,600,000 
(b) Part B of the Project 
18,650,000 
 
)
)
65% 
)
)
(4)  Consultants services under: 
 
(a)  Part C of the Project to  
 
be carried out by NWSC 
and Ningbo  
 
2,300,000 
(b)  Part C of the Project to 
be carried out by CMSC 
 
1,590,000 
 
)
)
)
91% 
)
)
Page  15
-
13
-
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(5) Training under: 
 
(a)  Part C of the Project to 
be carried out by NWSC 
and/or Ningbo 
 
100,000 
(b)  Part C of the Project to 
be carried out by CMSC 
 
100,000 
 
)
)
)
100% 
)
)
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
650,000 
 
__________ 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
 
130,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures. 
(b) 
The term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures under the Project prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$12,000,000 for expenditures by the Project Companies may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after September 1, 2004.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
works under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent each;  
Page  16
-
14
-
(b) 
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each;  
(c) 
combined works and goods under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 
equivalent each; 
(d) 
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals, each 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and 
(e) 
training, regardless of cost, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Ningbo in the expansion of water and 
wastewater services in Ningbo City and Cixi City in an economically efficient and 
environmentally sustainable manner. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Ningbo Water Supply
Construction of: (1) a 500,000 cubic meter per day (m3/day) capacity water 
treatment plant (Maojiaping Water Treatment Plant) to be located in western Yinzhou 
District, Ningbo City; (2) a raw water supply line from Jiaokou reservoir to said water 
treatment plant; and (3) water transmission pipes from said water treatment plant, 
including a ring main around the core urban area of Ningbo City, all to increase and 
improve water supply in Ningbo City.  
Part B:
Cixi Wastewater Treatment
Construction of: (1) a wastewater treatment plant north of Cixi City with an 
initial capacity of 100,000 m3/day and a wastewater treatment plant east of Cixi City 
with an initial capacity of 50,000 m3/day; and (2) associated collection system mains and 
link sewers (including pipelines and pumping stations), all for the purposes of providing 
comprehensive wastewater services for all urban areas in Cixi City. 
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Provide technical assistance:  
(1) 
To NWSC and CMSC for improvement of their capacity for design 
review, construction management and quality monitoring in carrying out their Respective 
Parts of the Project. 
(2) 
To NWSC for the establishment of a sophisticated central monitoring 
and control system (CMCS) by building upon the company’s existing monitoring and 
control system, improving the company’s internal management organization, upgrading 
the operation of its water distribution system and providing training on use of the CMCS. 
 (3) 
To Ningbo Municipal Government for the development of efficient and 
comprehensive utility price and service regulatory systems.  
Page  18
-
16
-
(4) 
To Ningbo Municipal Government for the strengthening of its capacity to 
manage water supply, including development of an integrated water demand and supply 
plan for the short, medium and long terms; and to NWSC for the strengthening of its 
strategic business plan to respond to future water supply demands.   
(5) 
To CMSC for the improvement of its institutional, financial, 
management and operations capacities and capabilities.  
Part D:
Resettlement 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
implementation of Parts A and B of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date of Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
December 
15, 
2010 
     3,565,000 
June 
15, 
2011 
      3,610,000 
December 
15, 
2011 
     3,660,000 
June 15, 2012                  
 
 
 
 
3,705,000 
December 15, 2012              
 
 
 
 
3,755,000 
June 15, 2013                   
 
 
 
 
3,805,000 
December 15, 2013                     
 
 
 
3,855,000 
June 15, 2014                   
 
 
 
 
3,905,000 
December 15, 2014                     
 
 
 
3,955,000 
June 15, 2015                   
 
 
 
 
4,010,000 
December 15, 2015                     
 
 
 
4,060,000 
June 15, 2016                   
 
 
 
 
4,115,000 
December 15, 2016                     
 
 
 
4,170,000 
June 15, 2017                   
 
 
 
 
4,225,000 
December 15, 2017                     
 
 
 
4,280,000 
June 15, 2018                   
 
 
 
 
4,335,000 
December 15, 2018                     
 
 
 
4,390,000 
June 15, 2019                   
 
 
 
 
4,450,000 
December 15, 2019                     
 
 
 
4,505,000 
June 15, 2020                   
 
 
 
 
4,565,000 
December 15, 2020                     
 
 
 
4,625,000 
June 15, 2021                   
 
 
 
 
4,685,000 
December 15, 2021                     
 
 
 
4,745,000 
June 15, 2022                   
 
 
 
 
4,810,000 
December 15, 2022                     
 
 
 
4,875,000 
June 15, 2023                   
 
 
 
 
4,935,000 
December 15, 2023                     
 
 
 
5,000,000 
June 15, 2024                   
 
 
 
 
5,065,000 
December 15, 2024                     
 
 
 
5,135,000 
June 15, 2025                   
 
 
 
 
5,205,000 
 
_____________________ 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $5,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $35,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  21
-
19
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  22
-
20
-
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
