                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR00001747


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-4770)


                                      ON A


                                     LOAN


                              IN THE AMOUNT OF


                              US$ 130.0 MILLION


                                    TO THE


                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA


                                     FOR A


               NINGBO WATER AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                  June 23, 2011




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2011

                  Currency Unit = Renminbi
                   RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.15
                    US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.6

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 - December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIFC    Average Incremental Financial Cost
BOD     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CMSC    Cixi Municipal Sewerage Company
COD     Chemical Oxygen Demand
DRC     (Ningbo Municipal) Development and Reform Commission
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EPB     Environmental Protection Bureau
FMS     Financial Management Systems
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GOC     Government of China
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results (Report)
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NMFB    Ningbo Municipal Finance Bureau
NMG     Ningbo Municipal Government
NMPMO   Ningbo Municipal Project Management Office
NPV     Net Present Value
NWEP    Ningbo Water and Environment Project
NWSC    Ningbo Water Supply Company
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMO     Project Management Office
PMU     Project Management Unit
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
SA      Special Account
SEPA    (China) State Environment Protection Agency

                              2
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
TA                  Technical Assistance
UFW                 Unaccounted for Water
UMB                 Urban Management Bureau
WTP                 Water Treatment Plant
WTW                 Water Treatment Works
WWTP                Wastewater Treatment Plant

Vice President:                            Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
Country Director:                          Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                                           Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS/Mr.
Sector Managers:
                                           Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
Project Team Leader:                       Ms. Meskerem Brhane, EASIN




                                           3
 
                                               CHINA
                                 Ningbo Water and Environment Project



                                                      CONTENTS

Data Sheet

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7

3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 15

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 16

6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 21

Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 25

Annex 4. Resettlement Implementation Report ............................................................... 32

Annex 5: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 34

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 36

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 47

Annex 8: Environmental Monitoring Indicators ............................................................... 48




Maps: IBRD 33554R and IBRD 33702R




                                                               4
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          CN-Ningbo Water and
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Environment Project
Project ID:             P086505                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47700
ICR Date:               06/27/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          NINGBO
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MUNICIPALITY
Original Total
                        USD 130.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 130.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 130.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Ningbo Municipal Development and Reform Commission/Project Management Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/22/2004     Effectiveness:             09/02/2005       09/02/2005
Appraisal:            12/03/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/17/2005     Mid-term Review:           12/01/2008       02/23/2009
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                              45                  45
Water supply                                                          55                  55


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                         20                  20
Pollution management and environmental health                         40                  40
Water resource management                                             40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:       Meskerem Brhane                      Greg J. Browder
ICR Team Leader:           Meskerem Brhane
ICR Primary Author:        Chandra Godavitarne
                           Meskerem Brhane


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project will facilitate the expansion of water and wastewater services in Ningbo City
and Cixi City respectively in an economically efficient and environmentally sustainable
manner, thereby protecting public health, improving the environment, and supporting
economic growth.




                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
                Increase in % of domestic water supply from high quality and reliable water
Indicator 1 :
                sources in Ningbo
Value
quantitative or 10%                        75%                              83%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   11/30/2010                       12/31/2010
                Achieved. The 500,000 m3/d water supply system meeting Class II standards and
Comments
                97% reliability started operating in 2010. The WTP's spare capacity will be used
(incl. %
                as existing WTP's are phased out and water sales agreements with townships are
achievement)
                executed.
Indicator 2 : Increase in % wastewater treated from industries and urban areas of Cixi City.
Value
quantitative or 10%                        65%                              65.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments        Achieved. 2 WWTPs with a total capacity of 150,000 m3/d are operating at about
(incl. %        70% capacity. Spare capacity will be used when works on secondary and tertiary
achievement) sewers connecting industries and townships are completed.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Water treatment plants and ring main completed
                                                                        Maojiaping WTP of
Value                                     Maojiaping WTP
                                                                        capacity 500,000
(quantitative   N/A                       and ring main
                                                                        m3/d and ring main
or Qualitative)                           completed
                                                                        completed
Date achieved 03/31/2005                  12/31/2010                    12/31/2010
Comments        Achieved. The first phase 250,000 m3/d WTP was completed in July 2010. The
(incl. %        second phase 250,000 m3/d WTP and the ring main were completed in
achievement) December 2010.
Indicator 2 : Wastewater treatment plants meet discharge standards
Value
                                          Class 1B discharge            Class 1B discharge
(quantitative   N/A
                                          standard                      standard
or Qualitative)



                                              iii
Date achieved   03/30/2005                   12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
                Achieved. The stipulated discharge standard, i.e., Class 1B, was achieved at both
(incl. %
                treatment plants.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   NWSC and CMSC meet loan financial covenants
                                           Meet O&M, debt
                                           service & 20%
                Water supply tariff-RMB annual capital                         Water supply tariff-
Value           1.37/m3                    expenditure by                      RMB 2.40/m3
(quantitative                              2010.
or Qualitative) Wastewater tariff-RMB                                          Wastewater tariff-
                0.40/m3                    Adequate revenue                    RMB 0.60/m3
                                           to O&M & debt
                                           service by 2010
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   08/30/2010                          08/30/2008
                Partially achieved. CMSC met the revenue generation requirement with a
Comments
                subsidy from Cixi. Despite tariff increases, CMSC & NWSC were unable to
(incl. %
                meet the debt service coverage ratio. NWSC is able to generate enough cash
achievement)
                revenue for service delivery.
Indicator 4 : Ningbo City integrated water supply plan
Value
(quantitative   None existed               Plan Developed                      Plan developed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2005                   06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments        Achieved. NWSC adopted the plan for investment planning and operations
(incl. %        developed. Plans includes retirement of old WTPs and supply of water sources
achievement) to 25 townships. 9 townships are purchasing water supply from NWSC.
Indicator 5 : NWSC strategic business plan
Value
(quantitative   None existed               Plan developed                      Plan developed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2005                   12/30/2007                          12/30/2007
                Achieved. NWSC operations are consistent with the business plan. Network
Comments
                expansion, water sales agreements, and water source protection have been
(incl. %
                implemented to ensure water utilization, reliability and availability of high
achievement)
                quality raw water supply.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/20/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/08/2006            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     9.54
  3     06/28/2007            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   22.24
  4     06/29/2008            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   56.62
  5     06/25/2009            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   97.43
  6     06/23/2010            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  128.56


                                                 iv
  7    02/26/2011         Satisfactory       Satisfactory   130.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Ningbo Municipality is located near Hangzhou Bay, and comprises: six districts, three
county-level cities (one of which is Cixi) and two rural counties. Ningbo City generally
refers to the six districts. At appraisal in December 2004, Ningbo City faced a two
dimensional water crisis – frequent shortages and poor water quality - which impeded
economic growth and endangered public health. The core urban area of Ningbo City was
served by the Ningbo Water Supply Company (NWSC), established about 80 years ago,
while about 25 township water supply companies served populations located around
Ningbo City. The companies drew water primarily from highly polluted local rivers and
used outdated treatment technology that diminished the quality of piped water. Due to the
lack of storage reservoirs and reliance on local rivers, Ningbo City often experienced
water shortages during the dry season. With the City’s rapid economic expansion, the
demand for water was increasing at about 5 to 10% per year. In spite of an aggressive
water conservation program, the duration and the intensity of the shortages were
increasing. In response, Ningbo Municipal Government had formulated a plan to develop
a new safe and reliable water supply project. The long-term plan of the Ningbo Municipal
Government was to expand the new water supply to all residents of Ningbo City by
incorporating the surrounding township water supply companies within NWSC.

Cixi City, located on the shore of Hangzhou Bay, also had a rapidly expanding economy.
At appraisal, only 10% of its wastewater in the city was treated, and heavy pollution
loads were flowing directly to the environmentally sensitive Hangzhou Bay, creating
environmental and public health concerns, and inhibiting potential investments. In 2004,
a new company, Cixi Municipal Sewerage Company (CMSC), was established, to be
responsible for all wastewater collection and treatment facilities. The new CMSC
management faced the dual challenge of starting up a new company and managing a large
capital works program designed to provide coverage to all urban areas and industries by
2010. Against this back-drop, the Ningbo Municipal Government requested Bank
assistance for the Ningbo Water and Environment Project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective was to facilitate the expansion and quality of water
and wastewater services in an economically efficient and environmentally sustainable
manner, thereby protecting public health, improving the environment, and supporting
economic growth. The key performance indicators agreed at appraisal, to measure results
were: (i) increase in the percentage of water supplied from high quality and reliable water
sources and treatment plants in Ningbo City from 10% to 75%; (ii) increase the
percentage of wastewater collected and treated in Cixi City from 10% to 65%.




                                             5
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the water supply investments were the 1.2 million people of
Ningbo City and the population in surrounding townships. The main beneficiaries of the
wastewater investments in Cixi were about one million people in the urban areas of Cixi
City and townships within the Cixi City administrative area.


1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Ningbo Water Supply (US$ 157.9 million; 54% of total project cost):
(i) raw water supply line consisting of an intake tower at Jiaokou reservoir and a 9.6 km
tunnel; (ii) 500,000 m3/d Maojiaping water treatment plant (WTP); and (iii) treated water
transmission pipes, including a new 47 km ring main around Ningbo City, and 29 km of
transmission pipes from the Maojiaping WTP to the new ring main. The component was
part of Ningbo’s overall plan to provide a safe and reliable water supply to the entire city.

Component 2: Cixi Wastewater (US$ 128.4 million; 44% of total project cost): (i)
two wastewater treatment plants (WWTP), one located in the north of Cixi (100,000
m3/d) and one in the east of the city (50,000 m3/d); (ii) associated system mains and link
sewers (230 km of pipes and 58 pumping stations); and (iii) engineered wetlands to
demonstrate the feasibility of lower cost treatment of wastewater. This component was to
provide wastewater services for all urban areas of Cixi and reduce pollution to
Hangzhou Bay.

Component 3: Institutional Development (US$ 4.5 million; 2% of total project cost):
technical assistance to improve water planning, utility pricing and service regulation, and
enhance NWSC and CMSC operational and business management capacities. This TA
supported strategic business planning and consultant services for design review, project
monitoring and construction management to ensure smooth project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

Not applicable.

1.7 Other significant changes

Increase in Total Project Costs. The overall project costs rose to 128.6% of the appraisal
cost, from US$ 292 million to US$ 374.7 million at completion, due to: (a) increased
resettlement costs for both components; (b) additional slope protection works necessary
for the WTP; and (c) construction of more sewer networks than originally planned.


                                             6
Change in Exchange Rate. The US$-RMB exchange rate changed from 1:8.27 in
February 2005 to 1:6.67 in December 2010, resulting in increased project costs, requiring
implementing agencies to mobilize additional counterpart funds to implement the works.

Revision of Disbursement Percentage. The disbursement percentage for consulting
services was increased from 91% to 100% in July 2008, in line with a Bank decision to
include tax expenditures in disbursements for consultant services.

Enhanced Discharge Standard for Wastewater Treatment. After project approval,
Ningbo Municipal Government mandated Class 1A discharge standard for all treatment
facilities discharging into the Hangzhou Bay, from the Class 1B standard agreed at
appraisal.

Financing of Wetlands. Initial plans were that construction for the two wetlands, to
enhance treatment at the northern and eastern WWTPs in Cixi, would be financed
through a blend with a GEF grant. However, the GEF grant approval was delayed until
June 2006; hence wetlands for the eastern WWTP were financed through the loan
proceeds, while the northern wetlands were financed through a stand-alone GEF project
scheduled to close on December 31, 2011.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis. The project’s background analysis was consistent
with the priorities of both Ningbo and Cixi Cities and with the approach supported by the
(Ningbo Municipal) Development and Reform Commission (DRC). The key issues (see
section 1.1) revealed during preparation were incorporated carefully into the design.

Project formulation was consistent with two key themes of the China Country Assistance
Strategy: accelerating the transition to a market economy through improving public
sector management and delivery of services, and facilitating an environmentally
sustainable development process, through better management of resources.

Project design also incorporated lessons from previous water sector operations in China:
(a) the need to avoid creating excessive treatment capacity; (b) the policy of phased cost
recovery for wastewater services allowing more time for consolidation; (c) the need to
improve water water supply planning; and (d) the need to modernize utility management.

Reforms and Innovations. An institutional and financial reform agenda was also
incorporated into the project design: (i) improving planning of water supply and water
resource planning; (ii) improving financial management in the established Ningbo Water
Supply Company; (iii) establishing an autonomous company in Cixi City to manage
wastewater services; and (iv) introducing financial performance targets to improve
financial management of the two companies. Project design included financial


                                            7
performance criteria and covenants for both NWSC and CMSC. The performance
requirements for the newly-established CMSC were appropriate, but somewhat ambitious.

Project Development Objectives (PDO)/Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
Formulation.

Judged against standards currently used in Bank-financed projects, the PDO was: (a) too
broad, especially with reference to protecting public health, improving the environment
and supporting economic growth, where the linkage was conceivable, but the projects’
contribution could not be easily attributed; and (b) unclear in its formulation as to which
city had deficiency of water supply or wastewater services.

There were only two key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure outcome: one
measured the increase in water supplied and the second, the increase in wastewater
collected and treated. However, these indicators did not capture the project’s role in
improving coverage. Furthermore, there were no KPIs to measure improvements in
public health, economic efficiency, environmental sustainability, improved environment
or economic growth, attributable to the project. The indicator on the discharge standards
was appropriate to measure project outcomes. The indicators for measuring compliance
with the terms of the loan financial covenants specified only two tariff increases. These
targets were too modest to enable the companies to meet their obligations and could not
ensure compliance with the financial covenants.

Risk Assessment. The risks to the project’s development objectives were appropriately
assessed as “modest? at appraisal. Project design incorporated mitigation measures
including: technical assistance (TA) and financial performance covenants for NWSC and
CMSC; strategic business plan for NWSC to expand water supply services based on
sound water supply planning; project management support to CMSC to enhance its
capacity to implement the wastewater component; and technical assistance to improve
business management and revenue to CMSC to enable it become commercially oriented.
Project design appropriately addressed the risk that government might not adjust tariffs
adequately to assure the financial viability of the two utility companies by providing for
‘non-operating income’, i.e., government subsidies, to meet shortfalls. The requirement
for NWSC to provide 20% of annual average capital expenditure from internally
generated revenue was highly appropriate for an established water supply company, but
compliance depended on its ability to raise revenue through tariff revisions, which were
not under its control.

One risk not identified at appraisal, but which materialized during implementation was
the potential risks associated with large volume excavation in rock involving blasting, for
which a more generous physical contingency provision should have been provided.

2.2 Implementation

The project was successfully completed as appraised, and required no extension of the
loan closing date.


                                             8
Ningbo Water Supply. Some delay and increased costs were incurred for the water
supply component, e.g., alignment changes for the ring main in sections that required
pipe jacking; the increased excavation for the treatment plant site; and the slope
protection works that became necessary to stabilize the exposed sloping face of the
excavation. The operation of the water supply system, including the Maojiaping water
treatment plant (WTP), began in 2009, a year later than anticipated in the PAD. Loan
funds allocated for the water supply component were not adequate to finance all the
works, but the NWSC was able to provide additional counterpart funds to complete the
works by the original loan closing date. NWSC was able to increase tariffs twice during
the project period, generated adequate revenue each year to operate and maintain services
satisfactorily, and continued to provide 24-hour water supply services.

Cixi Wastewater. All planned investments for the two WWTPs and 280 km of sewers
(over and above the target of 230 km) were completed by the original closing date. In
order to accelerate the connection of remaining households, the Cixi City Government
has established a fund to assist townships in constructing secondary and tertiary
collection networks. With financial support from the Cixi City Government, CMSC
operated and maintained services satisfactorily.

Institutional and Financial Development. Capacity building technical assistance was
implemented by both NWSC and CMSC. CMSC engaged consultant services late in the
project (October 2008 to September 2010) and therefore, some improvements are still
being internalized, especially financial planning and projection of revenue requirements.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The key performance indicators agreed for the water supply and wastewater
components were somewhat satisfactory. However, they could have been enhanced to
demonstrate the outcomes such as: (i) the impact of the reduction of wastewater
discharges to Hangzhou Bay, through monitoring water quality in key rivers or streams
leading to Hangzhou Bay; and (ii) water quality improvement achieved from the use of
lower cost natural treatment through the use of wetlands in Cixi.

Implementation. The performance monitoring system was adequate. Monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) was carried out primarily through monitoring the agreed outcome and
output performance indicators, and reported in the semi-annual progress reports. The
consolidated semi-annual progress reports summarized physical and financial progress,
financial expenditures by component, details of resettlement, revisions to the resettlement
action plans (RAPs), and the progress in meeting the key performance indicators.

Utilization. The monitoring indicators were utilized by the two cities to: adjust
implementation schedules; promote industry sites to investors; monitor pollution levels in
Hangzhou Bay, and make decisions on policy, investments and regulatory interventions
by the local governments.



                                             9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguards. The project made adequate provisions to compensate for the losses of
the affected population. Almost 70 ha of land were acquired, in contrast to the 61 ha planned
at appraisal, and 427 m2 of structures were demolished, in contrast to 916 m2 planned at
appraisal. Cost of resettlement was about 11% higher than the amount estimated at appraisal
and was fully covered by Ningbo Municipality.

As confirmed by the independent resettlement monitoring consultant, (i) the goal of the
resettlement rehabilitation was achieved, the negative impacts on the incomes and
livelihoods of the displaced families were restored and improved; (ii) compensation for
property losses was appropriate, houses and facilities were reconstructed, and their living
conditions were greatly improved, and farmers affected by the land acquisition were able
to increase their family incomes satisfactorily; (iii) internal monitoring and independent
monitoring played adequate roles in resettlement activities; and (iv) the PMO carried out
all involuntary resettlement related work (See Annex 4).

Environmental Safeguards. This project was appropriately categorized as an “A? project.
The Environmental Assessment was well prepared, and on time, to meet the processing
requirements. All implementing agencies established independent environmental
management teams that were responsible for implementation, supervision and monitoring
of the Environmental Management Plans (EMP). Specific environmental protection
measures included staffing and training, dust control, noise control, and disposal of
sludge. The long-term internal and external environmental monitoring results confirmed
that the environmental impacts during construction were mitigated and controlled to
acceptable levels. Monitoring data also indicated that the applicable standards for water
supply and wastewater treatment were met. No complaints on environmental issues were
registered.

Dam Safety. Construction of the Zhougongzhai dam was satisfactorily completed,
according to approved designs. Annual progress reports on construction progress were
submitted to the Bank, and emergency preparedness plans were also prepared for the
Jiaokou and Zhougongzhai dams, in compliance with the project’s legal covenants for
dam safety.

Cultural Property. The project was not expected to affect any above ground cultural
heritage sites. Chance find procedures were included in all contracts, but none were
uncovered.

Procurement. In general, procurement of works, goods and services was carried out in
accordance with the Bank procurement policy. The Procurement Plan was updated
periodically, contracts were awarded on time, and there were no cases of mis-
procurement.

Financial Management. The project had an adequate project financial management
system that provided, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information that the
loan proceeds were used for the intended purposes. Audits were received on time and

                                              10
without any qualifications. The project accounting and financial reporting were in line
with the regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the requirements
specified in loan agreement. Withdrawal procedures and funds flow arrangements
remained appropriate enabling the loan to be disbursed in a timely manner.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

NWSC owns all the assets created with project funds. NWSC has adequate capacity,
staffing skills and resources to operate them satisfactorily. NWSC plans to increase water
sales to utilize the full capacity of the new WTP (currently at 80%), and to retire old
WTPs. NWSC plans to enter into more sales agreements with the township water supply
companies to supply them with the new treated water. Incremental water consumption is
expected to reach 380,000 m3/d from 2016 onwards and demand for water is high, so
entering such agreements should proceed smoothly. NWSC has applied to the Ningbo
Municipality to increase tariffs in 2011 to generate adequate revenue to meet full
operating costs. Over the long-term, Ningbo Municipality intends to consolidate the
township water supply companies within NWSC - a significant innovation in itself,
enabled by the project investments.

CMSC plans are to: (i) encourage townships to expand the secondary and tertiary sewers
and connect to the trunk sewer lines constructed under the project, for which the Cixi
Government allocated RMB 200 million (about US$ 30 million) in 2010; (ii) propose to
government to incorporate the township wastewater systems into the CMSC service area;
and (iii) apply for another tariff increase.

CMSC plans to make the wetlands for the northern treatment plant operational in 2011,
following completion of necessary repairs and planting vegetation. Bank missions for the
GEF project will continue to monitor the completion and operation of the wetlands for
the northern WWTP, to ensure that the higher discharge standard is achieved in both
wetlands.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation              Rating: Satisfactory

The project objective was highly relevant at appraisal, and remained relevant and
consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy through to completion. The project’s
focus on expanding safe and reliable water supply in Ningbo and on comprehensive
wastewater management in Cixi City were necessary to sustain the rapid urban
development of Ningbo City and the industrial expansion in Cixi City, located along the
environmentally sensitive Hangzhou Bay, an area reputed, particularly, for rare bird
species. The project also addressed institutional reforms, including planning and
sustainability of the utility companies.




                                            11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives           Rating: Satisfactory

Project development objectives were satisfactorily achieved. Ningbo City has, indeed,
expanded water supply, which is both safe and 97% reliable. Cixi has adequate
wastewater treatment capacity, with tertiary treatment, to treat most of the wastewater
generated. These improvements have resulted in arresting Chemical Oxygen Demand
(COD) and Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharges of 2,439 tons and 711 tons,
respectively, in the first year (2010) after completion of the treatment plants. These
pollutants would have otherwise reached the environmentally sensitive Hangzhou Bay.

The PDO had no KPIs to measure improvements in public health, the environment and
economic growth. Although no direct link can be established, the two cities are vibrant,
and have maintained their economic growth and have continued to increase their shares
of domestic and foreign direct investments. Given that project investments were
completed in late 2010, it is still too early to make a definitive assessment on the
project’s impact on economic growth prospects. Achievements measured through the two
key performance indicators are described below.

Increase in the domestic water supply from high quality and reliable water sources in
Ningbo City. The percentage of high quality, reliable water supplied in Ningbo City rose
from the 2005 baseline of 10% to 83%, surpassing the target of 75%. By loan closure,
nine of the 25 townships had already switched to the new water supply under water sales
agreements with NWSC; construction of new water distribution systems to service five
townships in Beilun and Zhenhai was also in progress at loan closure (see Annex 2).

Increase in the percentage of wastewater treated in Cixi City. The wastewater treated in
Cixi City increased from about 10% to 65.4%, meeting the indicator target (see Annex 2).
The WWTPs and the eastern wetlands now meet the discharge standards, namely, Class
1B and Class 1A, respectively (see Annex 8).

Compliance with financial covenants: The table below provides a summary (see Annex
3 for details).

    Description of Covenant                     NWSC                      CMSC
Generate adequate revenue to         Partially complied with, but   Complied with tariff
cover O&M, debt service              sufficient revenue is          revenue and subsidy
requirements and (for NWSC only,     generated to meet              from Cixi City
generate 20% of annual capital       immediate service delivery     Government
expenditures)                        needs. NWSC aggressively
                                     increased tariffs during the
                                     project period and receives
                                     support from NMG to meet
                                     shortfalls when necessary.
                                     With increase in water
                                     sales, NWSC is expected to
                                     generate positive net

                                           12
    Description of Covenant                      NWSC                       CMSC
                                      income in 2 to 3 years.
Maintain a debt service coverage      Complied with delay           Complied with delay
ratio greater than 1.3                (starting 2010 and debt       (starting 2010 and
                                      levels for 2011 expected to   debt levels for 2011
                                      remain the same in 2011)      expected to remain
                                                                    the same in 2011)
Debt to asset ratio                   Complied                      Complied with delay
                                                                    (2010 and 2011)
Maintain a maximum debt to asset      Complied                      Complied
ratio of 0.7
NMG to ensure tariff adjustments      Complied with but tariff      Complied with delay
for NWSC and CMSC                     levels remain low


3.3 Efficiency

Economic                                                            Rating: Satisfactory

With the successful construction and operation of the Ningbo water supply system and
the Cixi wastewater treatment facilities, the main economic benefits foreseen at appraisal
were achieved.

Ningbo Water Supply Component. The cost-benefit analysis conducted at appraisal
estimated an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 15.59% as reported in the PAD.
Following those same valuation techniques and adopting same assumptions of the
willingness-to-pay values for improved water supply and cost saving in bottled water, the
EIRR at ICR is 15.64%. Therefore, the performance of this component is satisfactory
from an economic point of view.

Cixi Wastewater Treatment Component. The amount of wastewater collected and treated
in Cixi City increased from 10% to 65.43% for the one million residents, achieving the
target of 65%. The cost effectiveness approach was adopted at appraisal to help select the
least cost technology of wastewater treatment for the Cixi wastewater component. The
result from project implementation shows that the wastewater treatment technology was
indeed selected based on the least-cost approach, and the technology provided the
advantage of quality effluent and lower operating costs, enabling compliance with the
Class 1B agreed at project appraisal. In addition, the wetlands at the eastern WWTP were
able to demonstrate the feasibility of enhancing the treatment level, at a lower cost, to
achieve the Class 1A discharge standard, mandated by the Government after appraisal.

Financial                                                           Rating: Satisfactory

The after-tax financial internal rate of return (FRR) of Ningbo water supply component at
completion was 8.8%, which is close to the FRR (8.7%) calculated at appraisal. This is
equivalent to a net present value (NPV) of RMB 2,969 million over the project

                                            13
component’s estimated 35 year economic life, which is 54% more than the NPV at
appraisal. This difference is due to the weighted average cost of capital at completion
which is much lower than the one at appraisal.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating                         Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating of the project is assessed as satisfactory because the project
objectives were achieved and the economic benefits were realized. Financial
sustainability was substantially achieved by both the water supply and wastewater
companies with periodic tariff increases approved by the Ningbo Municipal Government
and the Cixi City Governments, and financial support to meet shortfalls, as provided for
in the legal agreements. Despite the stricter financial performance requirements on
NWSC, it continuously generated revenue to operate and maintain services satisfactorily,
and provided a high quality service.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was not designed to directly address poverty or gender issues. However, it
did improve the living environment for the broader population – including the poor – in
the two cities through better sanitation services. During construction, a large number of
temporary jobs were created that benefited the city’s population, especially the poor.
Moreover, the resettlement activities under the project fully restored and in some cases,
enhanced the living standards of project affected persons, especially the poor.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The capacity building TA introduced the following improvements in NWSC and CMSC:

Institutional Development and Managerial Sustainability. NWSC introduced
organizational reform, clarifying staff responsibilities for key areas of accountability. An
evaluation was also conducted to assess staff training needs. CMSC introduced an
institutional structure for managerial independence and accountability - an important
factor for organizational sustainability.

Financial Sustainability of NWSC and CMSC. Financial projections indicate that the
anticipated tariff increase in 2012 will enhance NWSC’s revenue enabling it to fully
recover operating costs. Financial projections indicate that Cixi would require significant
increases in wastewater tariffs to make up for budget shortfalls and reduce government
subsidies. CMSC has recommended to the Cixi City Government to maintain the
wastewater tariff for the urban area at the current level, and increase the tariff for towns
and villages to RMB 0.80/m3, which will enable it to operate without the need for a
subsidy.




                                             14
Operational Sustainability. NWSC developed a Central Monitoring and Control System
for the entire water supply and distribution network, which is a system-wide performance
monitoring, reporting and evaluation system to support its operations. This system will
provide much needed system performance indicators to further improve efficiencies. The
CMSC instituted a number of organizational reforms, including outsourcing management
of WWTPs, in order to ensure effective and efficient operation of its facilities, including
operational standards, and staff training.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

NWSC has well trained staff as well as sufficient budget that will allow it to operate the
new system efficiently. Moreover, the financial status of NWSC will continue to
strengthen with the expansion of consumers, signature of more water sales agreements,
growing demand for good quality water, and further tariff revisions. NWSC has
consistently generated adequate revenue to meet O&M costs, and the commitment of the
NMG to provide a quality water supply in Ningbo City will ensure necessary financial
support when necessary.

Although CMSC is a relatively new utility, it has put in place a number of organizational
reforms that ensure the effective operation of its facilities. It has recruited qualified staff
and provided them with proper training. It has also established a special operational unit
responsible for contracting out network maintenance to specialized and qualified
contractors. Cixi Municipal Government’s commitment to support the development of
the industrial zone in Cixi City and to address environmental concerns of pollution
discharges to Hangzhou Bay will also ensure that risks to development outcomes will be
low. The ambitious development plan of the newly-established Hangzhou Bay New
Development Zone also assures low risk to development outcomes.




                                               15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry            Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank ensured a satisfactory quality at entry through incorporation of best practices in
system design, innovations, improved utility management, and long-term planning, as
described below:

(a) Ningbo Water Supply: Design included: reliability and quality of the water source,
adequate to meet the long-term demand; expanded coverage including all of Ningbo City
and neighboring townships; uniform pressure system-wide through using the ring main;
consolidation of water supply services to achieve economies of scale and improved
service standards; long-term water supply planning and business development; and
sustainability of operations through improved utility and financial management;

(b) Cixi Wastewater: Expanded design coverage included all of Cixi City and townships;
secondary wastewater treatment to Class 1B standard; enhanced, lower cost tertiary
treatment in engineered wetlands to Class 1A standard consolidation of all wastewater
services in the long-term; and enhanced utility and financial management.

The goal to achieve full cost recovery for wastewater services in Cixi in five years
(including the construction period) was ambitious. This was addressed, however, through
the definition of ‘total revenue’ in the legal agreements, which provided for ‘non
operating income’, i.e., government subsidies, which provides for a phased approach to
full cost recovery.

Additional outcome indicators that could have captured the important interventions and
innovations were: the reduction of pollution discharges to Hangzhou Bay; the higher
discharge standard achieved at lower costs, in the engineered wetlands (in the Cixi
WWTPs); and the utilization rate of the new water supply in the surrounding townships
of Ningbo City. The PDOs relating to public health improvements and economic growth
were not easily measurable, as it is difficult to directly attribute them to the project.

A higher provision for physical and price contingencies, in the preparation of cost
estimates, could have better provided for the uncertainties associated with constructing
tunnels, the large quantity of rock excavation, the rising value of the RMB, and the
increased counterpart funding risks for NWSC.

(b) Quality of Supervision                                   Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the task team in the supervision of all aspects of project
implementation was satisfactory. The task team focused on: institutional development
activities; compliance with loan covenants. and other agreements geared toward
achieving sustainability. In the last 3 years of implementation, the task team leader was


                                            16
based in the Beijing Office which helped to resolve issues more quickly, and enabled the
Bank to stay closely associated with project implementation.

The mid-term review was conducted somewhat later in the project due to a change in task
team responsibility. However, this delay had no impact on the project as no restructuring
was necessary, and there were no loan savings.

The task team devoted special efforts to guide the CMSC through its consolidation and
the challenges it faced in improving its financial systems and extension of services to the
townships. The task team provided guidance on the design of wetlands that were to
demonstrate the lower cost treatment, and upgrade the discharge standard to Class 1A.

Safeguards Compliance                                                Rating: Satisfactory

Environmental and social safeguards specialists based in the Beijing office satisfactorily
supervised implementation of all safeguard issues specified in the legal agreements. The
team carried out adequate field visits to review progress and ensured the submission of
the external monitor’s report on safeguard implementation.

Fiduciary Compliance                                                 Rating: Satisfactory

Procurement and financial management specialists based in the Beijing office
satisfactorily supervised implementation of all fiduciary aspects of the project specified
in the legal agreements, and carried out adequate field visits to review physical progress.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance             Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory based on satisfactory quality at entry,
supervision and satisfactory achievement of outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance                                           Rating: Satisfactory

The Ningbo and Cixi Municipal Governments were fully supportive of the project
objectives because of the importance of improving water quality and expanding
wastewater treatment to support economic growth. Both municipal governments
increased water and wastewater tariffs as required in the legal agreements, although not
to adequate levels as final decisions were made by the governments on the basis of social
and economic factors. NMG ensured preparation of the Ningbo City Integrated Water
Supply Plan. The highly experienced Ningbo Municipal Project Management Office
(NMPMO) provided excellent project management functions.

The two municipal governments also ensured that counterpart funds were available as
necessary for NWSC and CMSC throughout project implementation. For instance, as the
RMB/US$ exchange rate increased, NMG provided additional funds to complete the


                                             17
slope protection works at the WTP. Cixi also provided 15 percent towards the cost of
sewage connections for towns and villages and provided subsidies to CMSC enabling it
to meet the loan covenants. NMG approved two tariff increases during the project period,
and stood ready to provide necessary financial support to NWSC to enable it to maintain
a high quality water supply.

Ningbo and Cixi municipal governments provided close oversight to ensure that
resettlement activities conformed to the RAPs; necessary stakeholder consultations were
carried out; and affected persons’ livelihoods were restored. Compliance with dam safety
requirements was also satisfactorily implemented.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance                    Rating: Satisfactory

Ningbo Water Supply Company. Backed by its well-established professional capacity,
the performance of the NWSC in the implementation of this innovative construction
project was fully satisfactory. NWSC used internally generated funds to meet the
increased costs associated with slope protection works. All the original works and the
strategic plans were completed within the original loan closing date. NWSC made annual
financial projections to identify necessary revenue increases. Water supply tariffs were
increased twice during the project period which enabled it to generate adequate revenue
to fully meet O&M costs and a major portion of other operating costs. The increases were
not adequate to fully meet the financial performance covenants but with increased water
sales, it is expected to do so in 2 to 3 years.

Cixi Municipal Sewerage Company (CMSC). The company, established in 2004 prior to
project appraisal, performed satisfactorily, first concentrating on the large investment
program and later addressing the institutional reform issues. CMSC successfully
implemented a large investment program comprising two WWTPs and associated
networks before loan closure, and expanded wastewater coverage in Cixi City from 10%
to 65%. In an effort to contain costs, CMSC outsourced operation and maintenance of the
two treatment plants. Wetlands were constructed at each treatment plant in the last year,
designed to achieve a discharge standard of Class 1A. CMSC faced two major challenges,
to ensure that: (i) the townships construct secondary and tertiary sewers to increase the
utilization of the trunk sewers constructed, under the project; and (ii) the revenue
collected by the townships for wastewater services was remitted to CMSC.

Because of its concentration on construction activities in the early years, attention to
financial management systems commenced late in the project, when financial projections
were finally prepared. CMSC suffered losses on its township wastewater operations
because it only received a portion of all revenues collected by townships. However, the
Cixi Municipal Government provided subsidies to meet the revenue shortfalls.
Wastewater tariffs were increased twice during the project period, albeit from a low base.
CMSC was in compliance with the revenue generation covenant in 2010, with a subsidy
from Cixi City Government, as provided for in the legal agreements. CMSC plans to (i)
collect more wastewater by increasing connections, (ii) request an increase in the
wastewater tariffs in towns and townships from RMB0.30/ m3 to RMB0.80/ m3, and (iii)


                                            18
increase wastewater tariff collection efficiency in order to improve its financial
performance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory due to the strong support
and project management from the Municipal Government, successful implementation of
all the original components within the original project period, satisfactory maintenance of
water supply and wastewater services, and the overall performance in complying with
project’s legal covenants,

6. Lessons Learned

Advanced Technical Design. The adoption of the ring main concept for balancing water
pressure throughout the system is an innovation worth replicating in other cities. Many
water supply systems in developed cities, including London, rely on the ring main design
for its efficiency and balancing pressures. A computer-aided network design was adopted
for Ningbo’s trunk water supply network, which is also long overdue in China.
Optimization software provides a modern tool for design of economically efficient
distribution networks, which makes computations simple, and provides optimal pipe sizes
to accommodate varying site conditions. This approach is a good example of efficiencies
that can be achieved with the use of a large diameter ring main and can be replicated in
other cities in China.

Wetlands for Natural Treatment of Wastewater. With the increasing requirements for
wastewater companies to provide Class 1A treatment standards, the potentially costly
tertiary treatment is now imperative. Available data from other projects in China indicate
that tertiary treatment would add about RMB 0.30/m3 to the cost of treatment. The use of
engineered wetlands provides a lower cost alternative to achieve the mandated discharge
standard. The prevailing understanding of ‘wetlands’ is to provide large water surfaces
with some plants along the edges, that may be aesthetically pleasing but have minimal
treatment functions. However, properly designed wetlands are comprised of shallow
water depth, adequate retention periods, and most importantly, the correct vegetation that
will absorb the pollutants. The Ningbo Water and Environment Project has demonstrated
the feasibility of using constructed wetlands for wastewater treatment at lower costs.

Advantages of Regional Planning and Implementation. The prevailing practice in
China is for each local government jurisdiction to construct its own facility for water
supply and wastewater treatment. This approach increases unit costs; requires the levy of
higher tariffs; and does not realize economies of scale that could be achieved through
regional planning, rationalization and consolidation of services. The stated policy of
Ningbo Municipality – to integrate the 25 water supply companies under NWSC – is a
fine example for the rest of China. Municipal Government leadership and commitment
are required to fully achieve this objective; NWSC by itself, had no power to make it
happen, because townships were generally unwilling to merge and give up their
independence. Water sales agreements must be considered as an interim step, but they do


                                             19
not capture the full benefits that can be achieved. The upgrading of distribution networks
in the townships is essential to reduce leakages in the network that increase with higher
pressures available with the new supply.

Effective Project Design. This project was successful and was completed on time
without restructuring because its design was straight-forward and well within the capacity
of the implementing agencies. The project involved only two geographical areas within
the same municipality, and the two second-level borrowers (NWSC and CMSC) had
strong technical capacity, particularly NWSC, and were well funded; and the design of
the project was built around high priority policies and objectives.

Utility Financial Performance Covenants. The project included financial performance
covenants for both NWSC and CMSC, and compliance by the utility companies was
possible only through the provision in the legal agreements for ‘non operating income’
(subsidies). Under prevailing practice in China, higher priority is given to service quality
over tariff increases, which are introduced over a longer period. In projects where this
provision was not made, the implementing agencies remained in a state of non-
compliance throughout the project period.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower appreciates value addition from its association with the Bank and the
projects’ technical assistance for capacity enhancement. The Borrower appreciates,
specifically, the knowledge transfer, Bank procurement procedures, and the advice
received from Bank experts. The Borrower has indicated two issues of concern: (i) the
number of Bank task team leaders over the five years, which had impacts on
implementation; and (ii) inconveniences caused by the Bank’s delays in providing
mission Aide Memoires, which did not facilitate smooth project implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                             20
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                      CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

                                                        Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
          Components                                    Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                       Appraisal
                                                           millions)
Ningbo Water Supply                       157.00            204.60         130.3
Cixi Wastewater                           130.00            166.57         128.2
Institutional Development                   5.00              2.84         56.23
            Total Baseline Cost           292.00            374.01         128.1
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                            0.00
             Total Project Costs          292.00            374.01         128.1
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00              0.65          100
     Total Financing Required             292.00            374.66         128.6

(a) Detailed Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage of
Components                            Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                    Appraisal
                                         millions)     millions)
1. NINGBO WATER SUPPLY
New Water Intake and Tunnel               10.90          8.34          76.5
Maojiaping WTW                             33.90         41.92         123.7
Water Transmission Main                    29.20         37.91         129.8
Water Transmission Ring Main               52.00         76.44          147
Overhead/Engineering Services              13.20          9.88          74.8
Resettlement                              10.90          19.16         175.8
Interest during construction                7.80         10.95         140.4
                           Sub-totals     157.90        204.60         129.6
2. CIXI WASTEWATER
Northern WWTP                              15.50         22.55         145.5
Mid Trunk Sewer System                     17.90         15.56          86.9
Western Trunk Sewer System                 18.40         17.90          97.3
Eastern WWTP                              11.00          13.90         126.4
Easter Trunk Sewer System                  15.20         16.46         108.3
City and Town Link Sewer System            28.80         53.72         186.5
Overhead/Engineering Services               9.80          8.33           85
Resettlement                               5.60           8.64         154.3
Interest during construction                6.10          9.51         155.9
                           Sub-totals     128.40        166.57         129.7
3. INSTITUTIONAL

                                              21
                                         Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                     Percentage of
Components                             Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD
                                                                      Appraisal
                                          millions)       millions)
DEVELOPMENT
Design Review, Construction                                                62.7
                                           1.50              0.94
Supervision
NWSC Central Control System TA             0.50              0.51         102.0
Price and Service Regulatory TA            0.50              0.86          66.2
Strategic Water Planning                   0.80              0.25          31.3
CMSC TA                                    1.00              0.77          77.0
General Training                           0.20              0.06          30.0
                          Sub-totals       4.50              3.14         69.8
Total Project Costs                       290.85            374.01        128.6
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.65              0.65         100.0
Total Financing Required                  291.50            374.70        128.5

(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal     Actual/Late
                                  Type of     Estimate      st Estimate Percentage
Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing (USD          (USD        of Appraisal
                                              millions)     millions)
Borrower                                         161.50        244.70       151.4
International Bank for
                                                   130.00      130.00      100.0
Reconstruction and Development
Total                                              291.50      374.70      128.5




                                           22
                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                  CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

All outputs planned at appraisal were achieved, as described below.

Ningbo Water Supply: (i) a water intake tower in Jiaokou reservoir and a 9.6 km raw
water conveyance tunnel; (ii) a water treatment plant (WTP) at Maojiaping with capacity
of 500,000 m3/d ; (iii) a water transmission system, including a new 47.3 km ring main
and a 30.2 km of transmission pipes from Maojiaping WTP to the ring main; (iv) central
automatic control system; (v) strategic business plan for NWSC; and (vi) the Ningbo
integrated water supply plan. The installed water supply capacity increased by 500,000
m3/d. Nearly 90 percent of the city’s population (2.8 million) now enjoys high quality
water, in contrast to 23 percent (1.2 million) in 2006. The new water source meets
Chinese drinking water standards (see Annex 8, Table 1) for Class 1-II and has a
reliability of about 97%.

Cixi Wastewater: (i) two WWTPs with a total treatment capacity of 150,000 m3/d
comprising the 100,000 m3/d northern WWTP and the 50,000 m3/d eastern WWTP; (ii)
engineered wetlands to enhance final effluent quality of WWTPs to Class 1A standards;
(iii) 280 km of main and link sewers, including 58 pumping stations; and (iv)
management information system; institutional and organization plan, and (v) business
plan and operating procedures. The target was met through construction of two WWTPs
with a combined capacity of 150,000 m3/d, about 280 km of sewers and 58 pumping
stations. The collection network now covers the urban areas in the administrative region
of Cixi City and a number of townships. Capacity utilization at loan closure was 63.3%,
and is projected to increase as more township secondary and tertiary sewers are
completed in about three years.

A comparison of outputs by component, at appraisal and end of project, are compared in
the table below.

             Output Description                     At Appraisal        Actual Completed
Ningbo Water Supply
Reservoir Intake (m3/sec)                                6.13                   6.13
Raw Water Tunnel (km)                                    9.58                  9.55
Treatment Plant (m3/d)                                 500,000                500,000
Treated Water Transmission Mains (km)                   18.9                   27.6
Ring Main (km)                                          47.0                   47.3

Cixi Wastewater
Northern WWTP (m3/d)                                   100,000                100,000
Western trunk Sewer System-(km)                           77.0                  104.6
Eastern WWTP (m3/d)                                     50,000                 50,000
Eastern Trunk Sewer System (km)                          30.0                   65.9
City and Town Link Sewers (km)                           133.0                 110.9

                                           23
            Output Description                       At Appraisal        Actual Completed
Constructed Wetland (m3/d)                           Specifics not            50,000
                                                  defined at appraisal

The table below illustrates the status of compliance with covenants.

Project              Description of Covenant                   Due           Status
Agreement                                                      Date
Reference
Schedule 3 NWSC to generate adequate revenue to              12/31/05 Partially
Para 7     cover O&M, debt service requirements and                   complied
           20% of annual capital expenditures
Schedule 3 CMSC to generate adequate revenue to              12/31/05 Complied in
Para 8     cover O&M and debt service requirements                    2010 & 2011
Schedule 3 NWSC and CMSC to maintain a debt                  12/31/05 Complied in
Para 9     service coverage ratio greater than 1.3                    2010 & 2011
Schedule 3 NWSC and CMSC to maintain a maximum               10/01/10 -Complied
Para 10    debt to asset ratio of 0.7 (respective status              -Complied with
           indicated)                                                 delay
Schedule 3 NMG to ensure tariff adjustments for              07/01/06 -Complied
Para 7 and NWSC and CMSC                                     07/01/06 -Complied with
8                                                                     delay
Schedule 2 NMG prepares an Integrated Water Supply           12/31/06 Complied
Para 9     Plan for Ningbo
Schedule 3 NWSC to prepare a Five-year Strategic             12/31/07 Complied
Para 6     Business Plan
Schedule 2 Prepare Zhougongzhai and Jiakou Dam               12/31/06 Complied
Para 11    Safety Emergency Preparedness Plan
Schedule 2 Submit semi-annual progress reviews of            07/31/05 Complied
Para 10    Zhougongzhai construction progress




                                            24
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

                  CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

Economic Analysis

The development objective of the Ningbo Water Environment Project (NWEP) was to
facilitate the expansion and quality of water and wastewater services in Ningbo City and
Cixi City in an economically efficient and environmentally sustainable manner, thereby
protecting public health, improving the environment, and supporting economic growth.
There were no changes in the PDOs. With the successful construction and operation of
Ningbo water supply and Cixi wastewater treatment facilities, as appraised, the project
development objectives have been successfully achieved, although without the full
benefit of the desired financial sustainability.

Benefits accrued to residents, industrial, commercial and institutional organizations in
Ningbo and Cixi, in terms of higher quality of water supply, protection of local water
resources, and improved environmental conditions in the Hangzhou Bay.

The key monitoring indicators associated with economic benefits were: (i) increase in the
percentage of water supplied from high quality and reliable water sources and treatment
plants in Ningbo City from 10% to 75%; and (ii) increase in the percentage of wastewater
collected and treated in Cixi City from 10% to 65%. The actual values against target
values for each of these two indicators are highlighted below, with the details shown in
the Results Framework table in Section F in the Data Sheet.

Ningbo Water Supply Component

Ningbo water supply was greatly improved through this project. With high quality raw
water supply, the expanded water treatment capacity, NWSC provided high quality water
supply to all of Ningbo city and a large number of townships as well, thereby offering an
essential element in protecting public health and living conditions. The percentage of
residents with high quality water supply increased from 1.2 million (23%) in 2006 to 2.5
million (almost 90%) at project completion, while the water supply capacity increased
from 820,000 m3/d to 1,300,000 m3/d. The operation of the Bank-financed water supply
system including Maojiaping WTP began in 2009 (instead of in 2008 as projected in
PAD). The project component provided the incremental water consumption of 194,000
m3/d in 2010. It is estimated that the incremental water consumption will reach 380,000
m3/d from 2016 onward. With the completion of new water supply network, which
provides improved water quality and service reliability, the component also helped
improve the quality of non-incremental water consumption. The volume of improved
non-incremental water consumption due to the project was reported as 669,000 m3/d in
2009, and is projected to reach 880,000 m3/d in 2016 onwards.

Cost-benefit analysis was conducted at appraisal, which estimated an economic internal
rate of return (EIRR) of 15.59% as reported in the PAD. The main economic benefits


                                             25
identified at appraisal have remained unchanged. They include: (i) value of the increased
consumption of high quality water supply; (ii) improved water quality; and (iii) cost
saving due to the reduction in bottled water usage. Using exactly the same valuation
methodology adopted in PAD (i.e., same valuation techniques and same willingness-to-
pay values for improved water supply and unit cost saving in bottled water), the EIRR at
ICR stage was estimated at 15.30%. The slightly lower EIRR was due to the delay in
operation of Maojiaping WTP by one year. Nevertheless, the performance of this
component is still satisfactory from an economic point of view.

Cixi Wastewater Treatment Component

The PAD adopted the cost effectiveness approach to select the least cost technology of
wastewater treatment for the Cixi wastewater component.

The percentage of wastewater collected and treated in Cixi City increased from 10% to
65.43% for the one million residents, slightly above the project target of 65%. Cixi’s
economy grew by 102% over the period of project implementation from 2005 to 2010.
The average per capita GDP grew by 97% over the same period. Particularly noteworthy
is the growth in tourism, which increased by 223% from 2005 to 2010. The net income
per capita for urban and township residents increased by 62% and 84%, respectively,
over the same period. With the completion of the Cixi wastewater component, the Cixi
Municipality achieved a wastewater treatment capacity/coverage of 80% for the urban
districts, 60% for the rural townships and 100% for industrial discharges located within
industrial parks. This achievement will greatly reduce pollution loads discharged to the
Hangzhou Bay.

This component included two wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) using A2O
treatment technology. In planning for the wastewater projects, options for fewer and
larger treatment plants versus numerous smaller treatment plants were assessed and
dismissed, in favor of the least cost approach of two WWTPs, located in the northern and
eastern parts of the city respectively. The selection of the A2O technology for the
treatment process was based on the least-cost approach, and the technology provided the
advantage of quality effluent and lower operating costs. Therefore, it is concluded that
the Cixi wastewater component will continue to achieve the project targets related to
wastewater treatment.

In summary, the project economic objectives have been largely achieved.

Financial Analysis

The financial analysis was conducted at both project and entity levels at appraisal.

Project Level Analysis

Ningbo Water Supply Component. The after-tax financial internal rate of return (FRR) of
this component at completion is 8.8%, which easily exceeded the 0.01% weighted


                                             26
average cost of capital at completion. This is equivalent to a net present value (NPV) of
RMB 2,969 million over the project component’s estimated 35 year economic life.

This FRR, was close to the FRR (8.7%) calculated at appraisal. The FRR was calculated
on the basis of the capital cost (RMB 1,412 million, 23% higher than at appraisal),
operation and maintenance expenses and taxes (RMB 2,932 million, 40% higher than at
appraisal), and revenue (RMB 7,716 million, 35% higher than at appraisal). The NPV
under this FRR is 54% more than the NPV at appraisal.

Cixi Wastewater Component. The average incremental financial cost (AIFC) of this
component at completion is RMB 2.82/m3, which is 21% higher than the AIFC (RMB
2.33/m3) at appraisal. This is mainly due to (i) higher capital cost (6%), (ii) more
operating expenses (9%), and (iii) lower volume of wastewater (-4%) collected and
treated. This AIFC is much higher than the average wastewater tariff at completion as
well, which is RMB 1.01/m3 in 2010.

Entity Level Analysis

This project was implemented by NWSC and CMSC. The financial analyses at entity
level were conducted at completion to assess whether NWSC and CMSC complied with
the financial covenants set forth in Project Agreement. These financial covenants include:
(i) cash generation for NWSC; (ii) revenue requirements for CMSC; (iii) debt service
coverage ratio for both NWSC and CMSC; (iv) debt asset ratio for both NWSC and
CMSC.

Ningbo Water Supply Company

Operating and Financial Performance. NWSC had six water treatment plants in 2010
and a total water production capacity of 1.87 million m3 per day. It provided piped water
to a population of 2.8 million through 672,000 customer connections within 6 districts of
Ningbo City, which covers the area of 700 km2. The following table presents the
operating and financial indicators of NWSC, compared to those at appraisal.




                                            27
                Table 3-1 NWSC Operating and Financial Indicators

                                                        At Appraisal              At
                 Indicator                                                   Completion
                                                  Value       Year          Value
Operating:
   Average daily water sales (m3)                 588,000     2003          858,900
   Ratio of domestic to non-domestic              28:72       2003          56:44
water sales
   Non-revenue water                              20% -       2001 –        19%
                                                  25%         2004
     Staff                                        990         2004          1,236
     Staff per thousand water connections         3.4         2004          1.84
Financial:
     Collection performance (% billings           98%         2004          99%
collected)
     Customer receivables (days worth of          19          2003          19
billings)
     Current ratio                                0.4         2001 –        0.24
                                                              2003
   Total debt (RMB million)                       577         Oct 2004      2,541
   Short-term debt (RMB million)                  252         Oct 2004      320
   Return on equity                               -2.8%       2003          -0.8%

Water Tariffs. Since the start of project implementation, the water tariff in Ningbo City
was increased twice. The first increase was in December 2007 and the second increase
occurred in July 2010. The actual increase of weighted average water tariff in 2008 was
close to the one projected at appraisal. However, these tariff increases alone did not help
NWSC comply with the financial covenant set forth in the Project Agreement. The
following table lists water tariffs in Ningbo City, existing and projected.

               Table 3-2 Water Tariffs (RMB/m3) in Ningbo City
                                       Projected               Actual
    Customer Group       Actual
                                     At Appraisal          At Completion
                          2004      2006      2008   2006      2008    2010
Residential               1.19      1.60      1.85    1.40     1.65     2.40
Institutional             1.39      1.90      2.20    1.60     2.50     4.15
Commercial                1.44      1.95      2.25    1.65     2.50     4.15
Industrial                1.44      1.95      2.25    1.65     2.50     4.15
Special Users             1.78      2/40      2.75    5.00     9.00    11.00
Weighted Average          1.42      1.88      2.16    1.56     2.13     2.44
% Increase                          32%       15%     10%      37%      15%

Status of Compliance with Financial Covenants for NWSC. NWSC submitted to the
Bank its reviews on the compliance with financial covenants in 2009 and 2010. These
reviews showed that NWSC had complied with the financial covenants. However, these

                                             28
reviews were conducted based on forecasting. By comparing the audited financial
statements for 2007, 2008, and 2009 sent to the Bank by NWSC, it was found that the
financial information contained in NWSC’s reviews was not accurate and complete.
During the ICR process, the compliance with the financial covenants was recomputed
based on the audited NWSC’s financial statements. The following table summarizes the
key information from NWSC’s financial statements which relates to the financial
covenants. Detailed analysis is available in the project files.

       Table 3-3 NWSC’s Compliance with Financial Covenants (in RMB million)
                                                          Actual                                     Projection
       Financial Covenant        2007             2008              2009             2010              2011
CASH GENERATION
Funds from internal sources         -166.93          -954.54         -1,086.46          -212.18           -139.29
20% capital expenditure              170.25             246.46          132.84              55.55             13.24
Compliance with covenant      Not complied     Not complied      Not complied     Not complied      Not complied


DEBT SERVICE RATIO
Long term debt                     1,579.67         1,979.75          2,402.77         2,224.44          2,241.18
Net revenues                         250.60             366.31          359.28           990.03            656.90
Debt service requirements            561.21             700.75        1,081.95           640.88            497.00
Debt service ratio                      0.45              0.52             0.33              1.54              1.32
Compliance with covenant      Not complied     Not complied      Not complied      Complied          Complied


DEBT ASSET RATIO
Debt                               3,111.10         3,151.10          3,390.94         3,332.97          3,383.39
Total assets                       4,746.88         4,938.67          5,275.42         5,288.92          5,442.70
Debt asset ratio                        0.66              0.64             0.64              0.63              0.62
Compliance with covenant       Complied         Complied          Complied         Complied          Complied

The main reasons for non-compliance with financial covenants are the lower amount of
operating revenues which were caused by low water tariff and large amount of debt
service requirements. Since the increases of water tariff did not reach a sufficiently high
level, the status of non-compliance with financial covenants will remain for the coming
years. It is projected that Ningbo City has to increase its water tariff in 2011 to
RMB3.70/m3 to be in compliance wit the cash generation covenant.

Cixi Municipal Sewage Company

Company Overview. At project completion, CMSC operated three wastewater treatment
plants, including one was built before the project, namely, the Jiaochangsha WWTP,
Northern WWTP, and Eastern WWTP with treatment capacities of 80,000 m3/d, 100,000
m3/d, and 50,000m3/d, respectively. CMSC receives all wastewater generated in the area
under the administration of Cixi City Government.


                                                   29
Northern WWTP was put into operation in July 2009 and now is operated by Shanghai
Fudan Water Engineering Technology Co., Ltd., while Eastern WWTP is operated by
CSD (Beijing) Environmental Protection Development Co., Ltd. since November 2009.
The terms of operating contracts are for six years.

CMSC is now negotiating with the suppliers to set up operating contracts for sewers and
pumping stations, in order to reduce labor costs.

Wastewater Tariff. Since the start of the project, Cixi City Government increased
wastewater tariff twice; the first increase in June 2006, and the second in June 2008.
Because of restructuring of water sector in Cixi City in 2011, the third increase of
wastewater tariffs could be implemented in 2012 after the completion of restructuring.
The following table summarizes the adjustment of wastewater tariffs in Cixi City since
2004.

               Table 3-4 Wastewater Tariffs (RMB/m3) in Cixi City
                                        Projected                   Actual
 Customer Group        Actual
                                      at Appraisal              At Completion
                        2004   2006 2008 2010 2012 2006 2008 2010
 Residential            0.15    0.30   0.55    0.65  0.75    0.40    0.60   0.60
 Institutional          0.25    0.50   0.90    1.05  1.20    0.40    1.35   1.35
 Commercial             0.85    1.85   3.35    3.90  4.50    1.35    1.35   1.35
 Industrial             0.25    0.70   1.60    1.90  2.20    0.65    1.35   1.35
 Special Users          1.15    2.60   4.25    4.90  5.65    2.65    4.50   4.50
 Weighted Average       0.37    0.86   1.43    1.69  1.95    0.45    1.01   1.01
 % Increase                    132% 66% 18% 15% 22% 124% 0%

From the above table, it is clear that the increases of wastewater tariff in Cixi City
reached the projection at appraisal. However, due to the increases of capital expenditures
of the project and operating expenses, and reduced wastewater volume, the increases of
wastewater tariff did not help Cixi City to comply with the financial covenants set forth
in Project Agreement.

Status of Compliance with Financial Covenants. With assistance of a local consultant,
CMSC provided the Bank with its reviews on the compliance with financial covenants in
2009 and 2010. These reviews showed that CMSC was in compliance with the covenants
in 2010 with the government subsidy. The table below summarizes the key information
from CMSC’s financial statements which relates to the financial covenants. Detailed
analysis is available in project files.




                                            30
   Table 3-5 CMSC’s Compliance with Financial Covenants for (in RMB million)

                                               Actual                                 Projection
       Financial Covenant      2007              2008              2009            2010            2011
REVENUE REQUIREMENTS
Total revenues                        41.24             30.28             19.47        653.14          323.14
Total operating expenses              24.82             36.95             68.68        116.96          123.70
Debt service requirements             70.00            100.00             97.00           97.00        194.00
Revenue requirements                   0.43              0.22              0.12            3.05           1.02
Compliance with covenant    Not complied      Not complied      Not complied      Complied        Complied


DEBT SERVICE RATIO
Long term debt                     542.09              745.17          933.65          849.96          678.56
Net revenues                          25.05              6.72          -19.27          586.54          273.92
Debt service requirements             70.00            100.00             97.00           97.00        194.00
Debt service ratio                     0.36              0.07             -0.20            6.05           1.41
Compliance with covenant    Not complied      Not complied      Not complied      Complied        Complied


DEBT ASSET RATIO
Debt                               754.00              998.25        1,173.45        1,134.29          865.89
Total assets                     1,075.99          1,378.58          1,582.81        2,101.87        2,016.45
Debt asset ratio                       0.70              0.72              0.74            0.54           0.43
Compliance with covenant    Not complied      Not complied      Not complied      Complied        Complied


The above table shows that CMSC did not comply with the financial covenants for
CMSC until 2010. Compliance with the revenue requirements was difficult because Cixi
City Government kept the wastewater tariff at a low level, which made it impossible for
CMSC to fully cover its capital expenditures and operating costs. CMSC’s strategy to
improve its financial performance is to: (i) collect more wastewater by increasing
connections; (ii) increase the wastewater tariff in the town and township from current
RMB0.30/m3 to RMB0.80/m3; and (iii) increase the tariff collection efficiency. To enable
CMSC comply with covenant of revenue requirements in 2011, it is projected that the
wastewater tariff should be increased to RMB3.80/m3.




                                                  31
                      Annex 4. Resettlement Implementation Report

                     CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

1.       In their final evaluation report, the independent monitoring consultant (Resettlement
Research Center of Hehai University), highlighted the following: Almost 70 hectares of land
were acquired, 427 m² structures were demolished, and four rural households were relocated
within their original villages. The goal of the resettlement rehabilitation was reached and the
potential negative impacts on the displaced persons were successfully mitigated, and in some
cases, livelihoods were improved. In short, adequate provisions were made for appropriate
compensation of losses. The internal and independent monitoring of resettlement activities
were effective in ensuring compliance with Bank policies

2.       The implementing agencies ensured that:

    Resettlement units were created for effective coordination with project affected people
     and other relevant stakeholders;
    Broad resettlement information was appropriately disclosed, and the proactive
     participation of displaced persons was encouraged;
    Sufficient resettlement funds were available;
    Effective coordination with major agencies and stakeholders were carried out;
    Detailed resettlement implementation plan and timely resettlement policy modifications
     were done in accordance with local social and economic development;
    Compensation for the project affected people was provided at replacement cost prior to
     the actual move; and
    Assistance was given to project affected people in their efforts to restore their livelihoods.

Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)

3.      In accordance with the World Bank’s safeguard policies, a Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) was prepared and disclosed in English and Chinese prior to the start of civil works.
The RAP described the extent of resettlement, identified affected persons and resources,
defined how resettlement would be addressed, and provided details of the institutional
arrangements.

Institutional Arrangements

4.      A Resettlement Office was established within the Project Management Office under
Ningbo Development and Reform Committee to prepare and supervise the implementation of
the resettlement activities. Each subproject set up a resettlement office in charge of the
execution of the resettlement activities required by the PMO.




                                                32
Scope of Resettlement Components
Subproject                                    Water Supply     Water Treatment            Total
                            Planned                14.2              46.7                 60.9
                            Actual                 19.3              50.5                 69.9
Land acquisition (ha)       Difference              5.1               3.8                  9.0
                            Planned                  0              916.4                916.4
                            Actual                   0              427.17               427.17
Housing (m2)                Difference               0             -489.23              -489.23

Cost for the resettlement

5.     The total cost of implementing the RAP reached US$ 1.542 million, about 10.8%
above the appraisal estimate of US$ 1.390 million. All resettlement work was funded by the
Borrower.
                                                               Unit: RMB 10 Thousands
   Category of the Items                 Planned                          Actual
Permanent land                              465                           1020.16
Temporary land                             373.6                          2547.13
Agricultural land                          6392.6                         1383.16
Others                                       1806.4                          5071.43
Total                                        9037.6                          10021.87

Socio-Economic Surveys

6.       All of the displaced families elected to keep living in the same area or very close to
it. Their living conditions have largely improved: 12.5% of displaced families were highly
satisfied; 62.5% satisfied; and 25% moderately satisfied. All of the displaced families
affected by land acquisition and house demolition expressed that their resettlement was
carried out in accordance with their entitlements.

7.      The displaced families affected by land acquisition received the resettlement
information through village meetings and other channels; 75% expressed satisfaction, which
indicates that project information disclosure was adequate. On property surveys, 81.2% were
highly satisfied; 12.5% were satisfied; and 6.3% were moderately satisfied.

8.      In addition to the above information, the data gathered by the independent monitoring
consultant confirms that the impact of resettlement on the affected households has indeed
been very positive. The average household income in 2004 was US$ 1,569 and reached as
US$ 2,673 in 2009, and increased US$ 1,105 higher than the average household income
during the same year in Ningbo city.




                                               33
      Annex 5: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                    CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project


(a) Task Team members 
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Greg J. Browder (TTL)     Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist    LCSUW    Water Resources
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist      EAPFM    Fin. Management
Daniel R. Gibson          Lead Social Development Specialist      ECSOQ    Social Safeguards
Lixin Gu                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist        EASIN    Infrastructure
Chongwu Sun               Sr Environmental Specialist             EASCS    Envir. Safeguards
Zhefu Liu                 Senior Social Development Specialist    EASCS    Social Safeguards
Zhentu Liu                Senior Procurement Specialist           EAPPR    Procurement
David I                   Sr Financial Management Specialist      EAPFM    Fin. Management
John Smithson             Municipal Engineer (Consultant)         EASCS    Engineering
Supervision/ICR
Greg J. Browder (TTL)     Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist    LCSUW Water Resources
Shenhua Wang (TTL)        Senior Financial Specialist              EASIN Financial Analysis
Meskerem Brhane (TTL)     Senior Urban Specialist                  EASIN Urban Planning
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM Fin. Management
Daniel R. Gibson          Lead Social Development Specialist       ECSOQ Social Safeguards
Chandra. Godavitarne      Municipal Engineer (Consultant)          EASCS Engineering
Lixin Gu                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist         EASIN Infrastructure
Anne K. Harrison          Program Assistant                        EASIN
David I                   Sr Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM Fin. Management
Xujun Liu                 Procurement Specialist (Consultant)      EASCS Procurement
Zhentu Liu                Senior Procurement Specialist            EAPPR Procurement
Zhefu Liu                 Senior Social Development Spec           EASCS Social Safeguards
John Smithson             Municipal Engineer (Consultant)          EASCS Engineering
Chongwu Sun               Sr Environmental Specialist              EASCS Envir. Safeguards
Peishing Wang             Environmental Specialist (Consultant)    EASCS Envir. Safeguards
Yuan Wang                 Procurement Analyst                      EAPPR Procurement
Ning Wu                   Financial Specialist (Consultant)       MNSSD Financial Analysis
Ji You                    Urban Specialist                         EASCS Urban Planning
Fang Zhang                Financial Management Analyst             EAPFM Fin. Management
                                                                  EASUR –
Zezhen Zhang              Consultant
                                                                    HIS




                                        34
(b) Staff Time and Cost 
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                   89.85
  FY05                                                                  223.99
  FY06                                                                    0.97
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                           Total:                                       314.81
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                   41.04
  FY06                                                                   33.79
  FY07                                                                   79.05
  FY08                                                                   47.23
  FY09                                                                   94.90
  FY10                                                                   50.32
  FY11                                                                   80.89
                           Total:                                       427.22




                                    35
           Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                        CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

This Annex is a summary of a comprehensive Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), and does not repeat matters presented in the main text of the ICR. In addition to detailed
account of implementation, achievements and outcomes, it provides a good discussion on project
design, ground realities, and lessons and suggestions for future project formulation. The Bank
ICR has drawn liberally from the Borrower’s ICR.

PROJECT/PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, AND PROJECT DESIGN

Original Objective. The Project Development Objective and key performance indicators are available in
the ICR main text and the Project Appraisal Document.

Revised Objective. There has been no change in the main Project objectives during implementation.

Main Beneficiaries. Beneficiaries of the project are residents, industrial, commercial and institutional
organizations in Ningbo and Cixi in terms of higher quality of water supply, protection of local water
resources, and improved environmental conditions in the Hangzhou Bay.

Original Project Components. The project investment program is provided in the ICR main text and the
Project Appraisal Document.

Revised Project Components. No project sub-components were revised, added or deleted during
implementation. A number of changes were made, however, to the technical details in the project design.

Other Significant Changes

Ningbo Water Supply Component. Geotechnical risks were identified during construction of the WTP,
requiring additional reinforcement to improve the stability of the excavated side slopes and WTP
foundation – see increased project cost in Appendix 1.

Cixi Wastewater Component. As recommended by consultants wetland size was increased from 26 ha to
60 ha to improve the performance standards for the North WWTP to reach Class 1-A discharge standards.
Land acquisition requirement was increased. There was no additional safeguard issue as land is vacant
and no undue delay of the overall project progress.

The maintenance facility for the East WWTP was revised to be the laboratory. Facility maintenance work
is to be outsourced. Available laboratory facility can provide monitoring and testing capability for water
qualities. Wastewater collection system for townships was expanded to increase service area, with
collection system along the main roads upgraded from open trenches to pipeline.

KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

(a) Quality at Entry. Project preparation of the physical investments at appraisal was carefully conducted
to ensure an acceptable level of quality. Alternatives were considered prior to selecting the preferred
approach for several key project sub-components:



                                                36
(b) Critical assessment of growth demand. Original water demand by NWSC was revised downward as
recommended and verified by national and international consultants, with a short-term planning period to
2010 and a long-term demand forecast to 2040.

(c) Water tariff increase. Tariff increased twice during project implementation in 2006 and 2008. Water
users already received a consolidated bill for water supply and wastewater services.

(d) Assessment for appropriate technologies. Project design examined the relevance of selected
technologies with full considerations to financial and operational implications. Proposed activated-carbon
filtration for Maojiaping WTP was dropped. Three alternative sites for WTP were considered, resulting in
the selection of the Maojiaping facility at the lowest cost and least resettlement issues. Optional scheme
for Ningbo water distribution system was critically examined, resulting in the selection of one ring main
fed from two WTPs, providing maximum flexibility and reliability.

For Cixi WWTP, an engineering-economic analysis was conducted, resulting in the selection of two new
plants (North and East) for optimal balance of capital and operating costs. Conventional tertiary treatment
with chemical coagulation and filtration for Cixi WWTP was replaced with engineered wetland with
lower operating cost and complexity.

Outcome/Achievement of Objective and Environmental Benefit

Ningbo water supply system has constructed all subcomponents to ensure that percentage of water supply
of high quality from 10% to 75%. The Cixi wastewater system has increased the collection and treatment
capacity from 10% to 65%, consistent with the project objectives of protecting public health; improve the
quality of environmental conditions to support sustainable economic growth in Ningbo.

Outputs by Components

Ningbo Water Supply (US$157.9 million with IBRD-US$69.71 million in PAD; US$ 204.85 at project
completion):

Outputs included: (i) a raw water supply line with an intake tower in Jiaokou reservoir and a 9.6 km
tunnel;(ii) 500,000 m3/d water treatment plant; and (iii) a water transmission system, including a new
47.3 km ring main and a 30.2 km of transmission pipes from Maojiaping WTP to the ring main has been
completed and put into service.

The first 250,000 M3/d of the Maojiaping WTP was completed and put into service in August 2009. The
second 250,000 M3/d plant was commissioned and put into service in November 2010. At the end of 2010,
an average of 300,000 M3/d was provided to the Ningbo water supply system. Output of Maojiaping WTP
is to increase as existing WTPs are scheduled to be retired from service and water sales arrangements
with townships are completed over the next year or two; and

By the end of 2010, actual monitoring indicated that the percentage of Ningbo City covered by the new
high quality water supply system has reached 83%, exceeding the planned target of 75%. The ring main
was the first of its kind in China and is one of the major technical innovations under the Project. The ring
main approach will provide operational flexibility in supporting water supply needs (quantity, quality and
pressure) over the entire network without unduly affected by changing land use developments.

Cixi Wastewater (US$128.4 million with IBRD-US$59.64 million in PAD; US$ 166.07 at project
completion):


                                                 37
Outputs include: (i) two WWTPs with a total combined treatment capacity of 150,000 M3/d (100,000
M3/d North plant and a 50,000 M3/d East Plant); and (ii) Sewer mains and links have been constructed
with 230 km of pipe and 58 pump stations.

Engineered wetlands to enhance final effluent quality of WWTPs to Class 1A standards have largely been
completed. Remediation to the north wetland is needed to ensure the wetland is fully functioning.
Actual monitoring indicated that the percentage of wastewater treatment from industries and urban
sources have reached 65.43%, slightly exceeding the Project design target of 65%.

Institutional Development (US$4.5 million with IBRD -US$4.1 million in PAD; US$ 3.14 at
completion):

This technical assistance component provided the understanding and skills to NWSC and CMSC in
carrying out water planning, utility price and service regulations, and enhancing operational and business
management capacities. Significant impacts to institutional development and reform have taken place
within NWSC and CMSC such as strategic business planning, human resources management, operational
accountability and financial forecasting. Details are provided in Appendix 9.

Institutional Strengthening Achievement:

Strategic Business Planning: The outcome of TA package C was a comprehensive business plan for the
NWSC, covering a broad range of strategic issues, including: strategic management framework, water
supply demand forecast to 2030, performance measurement and financial planning for full cost recovery.
NSWC has acquired the ability to conduct future business planning, thereby contributing to sustainability.

Management Information System: Package E provided technical assistance to the CMSC in developing
an MIS system. Institutional and organizational reforms were introduced for issuance of sewer connection
permits, operational supervision and performance monitoring.

Economic Benefits and Utility Finances

Economic Benefits

Ningbo Water Supply. The project development of providing a safe and reliable water supply to support
the sustained economic development of Ningbo was achieved. The planned investments were completed
at about the costs estimated at project appraisal, barring the unforeseen additional cost for remedial works
to stabilize a rock face.

The high quality water supplied to the entire Ningbo city and a large number of townships, and made a
significant contribution to protect public health and improve living conditions. The percentage of
residents with high quality water supply increased from1.5 million (23%) in 2006 to about 2.5 million
(90%) at project completion.

The economic benefits projected at appraisal were substantially achieved: the value of the
increased consumption of high quality water supply; and cost saving due to the reduction in
bottled water usage. The siting of the WTP location at an elevated level resulted in reduction in energy
costs, usually about 70% of costs, were achieved.

The innovative design concept for the ring main contributed significantly to enhance sustainability of the
water supply system will generate significant cost savings from avoided costs for system modifications in


                                                 38
the future years. Operational efficiency was achieved through the innovative ring main adopted for water
distribution system, which eliminates the need for frequent adjustments and re-routings of the water
distribution system, and provides consistent water flow over the entire water distribution system.

Cixi Wastewater. Least cost analyses for the Cixi wastewater component. Both WWTP designs adopted
the A2O treatment technology, which was the least cost treatment option, which provides the advantage of
quality effluent and lower operating costs. In planning for the wastewater projects, options for fewer and
larger treatment plants vs. more and smaller treatment plants were assessed and dismissed, in favor of the
least cost approach adopted in the two WWTPs.

Cixi Municipality has achieved a wastewater treatment capacity of 80% for the urban districts, 60% for
the rural townships and 100% for industrial discharges located within industrial parks. This will greatly
reduce pollution loadings discharged into the Hangzhou Bay. Cixi’s economy grew by 102% over the
period of project implementation from 2005 to 2010. Average per capita GDP grew by 97% over the
same period.

Utility Finances

Financial performance of both NWSC and CMSC depends on implementation of tariff adjustments.
However, this is a matter that is within the control of the companies, because tariff setting is the
prerogative of the respective governments.

Cixi Wastewater. The Cixi Government approved tariff increases twice - in May 2006 and May 2008.
The current average wastewater tariff is RMB 1.01/.3. However the tariff levels remain low within the
urban districts and no wastewater tariff is being collected from most townships. Therefore, financial
sustainability of CMSC cannot be maintained based on tariff alone. Hence, the Cixi Municipal
government provided financial subsidies to the CMSC for each year from 2007 to 2010 (RMB 28.31
million in 2007; 14.95 million in 2008; 6.37 million in 2009 and 94.53 million in 2010). It is anticipated
that the trend of increasing tariff and tariff collection area will continue gradually over time to reach full
cost recovery.

Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

The PAD provided a result monitoring framework that specifies the collection of various data to
demonstrate outcome indicators achieved under each of the Project Development Objectives and
intermediate results. Details of the Results Monitoring Framework are provided in Appendix 5.

M & E design: Quality of water supply before and after project implementation demonstrated tangible
outcome. Effluent qualities from both WWTPs and the engineered wetland demonstrated reduction of
pollutant loadings to local receiving water bodies as well as the final output to the Hangzhou Bay, see
details Appendix 5. At the present time, north wetland is not operating as designed due to a damage
discharge pipe from the north WWTP. CMSC committed to complete the repair work by mid May 2011.

M & E Implementation: Appropriate data was actually collected through reports on regular pre-
determined frequencies to track project progress of physical works and institutional development plans.
Responsibilities for data collection and reporting were appropriately assigned.

M & E utilization: The results monitoring framework primarily provided data to track the construction of
physical works and to some degree, institutional reforms for business planning and IT capabilities for
operational management. Additional monitoring data at the end of project implementation provided


                                                  39
further evidence of achieving underlying project development objectives of protecting public health,
improving environmental conditions to support sustainable economic growth.

Procurement

A number of technical design changes were made to project subcomponents. These changes do not
contain any substantial changes in the nature or purpose of any subcomponents. Changes were made for a
number of reasons, mostly for enhancing the quality of facility design and construction. Some
subcomponents are more appropriately repackaged to facilitate the procurement process, due to the nature
of the works or services being acquired. A few changes were made in light of additional field data
obtained during project constructions.

Project Resettlement

A Project Resettlement Policy Framework and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared during the
project design and appraisal stage for both the Ningbo water supply and the Cixi wastewater components,
which meet the World Bank’s OPBP 4.12. The Framework and the RAP addressed specific issues ranging
from key principles of resettlement, replacement costs, funding arrangements, as well as consultation and
disclosure processes and grievance procedure. The Ningbo PMO established a resettlement office, staffed
with specialists from NWSC and CMSC, to manage and supervise the resettlement process. There were
no significant resettlement issues during project implementation. The largest impact had been the
temporary use of approximately 467 ha during construction. No minority community was involved in the
resettlement process. The following table provides the summary of the scope of the resettlement.

                           Number of            Land acquired        Residential         Amount of
                           people affected      (ha)                 housing removed     Compensation
                                                                     (M2)                (Million RMB)
                Ningbo     864                  19.59                                    121.19
                Cixi       300                  17.91                427.18              58.75

Environmental Management during Implementation

The Project was classified as a “Category A? project, and a full Environmental Impact Assessment was
prepared. The Project as a whole has significant net positive environmental impact as it improves the
quality and reliability of water supply, reduces water pollution, and promotes the sustainable development
of Ningbo Municipality. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared at the project design
specifically address potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures during project
implementation. No significant environmental management issues arose during project construction and
provisions of the EMP were complied with to mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts during
implemented.

Poverty Alleviation and Social Improvements

(a) Employment and Staff Training. The Project was implemented between 2005 and 2011. During the
6-year project design and construction phase, the project created a large number of temporary jobs for the
local community. Permanent employment will continue to grow at both the NWSC and CMSC for the
newly constructed facilities. Training was provided to existing staff and new recruits for operation of new
water and wastewater systems. Newly constructed facilities are expected to continue to acquire services
and materials from area businesses, thereby spurring business growth in the local economy.



                                                40
(b) Improvements to Water Supply Quality. Water quality monitoring was conducted to demonstrate
actual improvements to the qualities of raw water supply and qualities of treated water released from the
Maojiaping WTP. Details of representative monitoring results for one month are provided in Appendix 5.
Monitoring data indicates that qualities of treated water consistently exceed the national standards.

(c) Improvements to Effluent Quality from WWTPs and Discharges to Hangzhou Bay. Discharges from
the North and East WWTPs have demonstrated to be consistently meeting meet national standard,
GB18918-2002 Class 1B quality. Further details of environmental improvements as shown by the
monitoring data are presented in Appendix 5, as project outcomes.

MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Factors outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agencies

Currency exchange rate: The exchange rate of US$ with RMB has declined by almost 18% from 1:8.27
to less than 1:68 over period of project implementation. This significantly reduced the real value of WB
loan and increased the level of local funding required as most contracts were denominated in Chinese
RMB, causing difficulties for the IAs in terms of securing additional local funds to cover shortfalls.

Market price escalation: Price increase for major construction materials (such as: steel etc.) caused
problems for construction progress on some fixed cost contracts.

Selection of the lowest bid: This approach caused some problems for contract management in China, as
low quality local subcontractors are often used.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

Ningbo and Cixi governments provided strong project management by ensuring timely resolution of
resettlement, financial and technical issues. Governments also constructed some physical works in
support of project components including, an investment of 200 million RMB as subsidy for 200 km
township connections; sewer connection for more than 2,700 industries; expansion of Qiaoshanshen WTP
from 50,000 M3/d to 80,000 M3/d; expansion of WTP at the industrial park from 30,000 M3/d to 50,000
M3/d; and installation of 6 km sewer collection pipe in the Cixi City centre district.
Lack of tariff increases resulted in NWSC and CMSC continue to rely on annual financial subsidies from
the government.

Design institutes’ lack of the experience and interest in WB project procedures also negatively affected
project costs and work schedule.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

Some engineering design work was undertaken with insufficient field data, especially relating to
geotechnical information. This situation had caused significant difficulties in conducting some civil works,
resulting in changes to field work and delays that can otherwise be avoided.

Project Costs and World Bank Financing

A breakdown of project cost by component is provided in Annex 1 of the ICR. Total project cost provided
in the PAD was US$ 291.50 million or RMB 2,419.30 million with a US$ to RMB exchange rate of 8.3,
including a front-end financing cost of US$ 0.65 million. The final project cost was 128% more than the
cost estimated at project appraisal.

                                                41
Two key conclusions can be drawn from an examination of the cost data: The overall project cost (in
USD) at completion is significantly higher than those provided in the PAD. However a significant portion
of the increase is due to the factor of exchange rate which had dropped about 18% over the period of
project implementation (Exchange rate 8.3 at PAD; 6.81 at project completion). The total cost for
institutional development was considerably lower (more than 32%) that estimated in the PAD. It is felt
that additional resources could be deployed for institutional capacity building.

PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY

Sustainability Assessment. In general, the Project is deemed to be sustainable while lack of tariff
collection remains a critical challenge for NWSC and CMSC during the transitional phase.

The sustainability of the Project needs to be assessed in terms of three key aspects: (a) availability of an
appropriate institutional structure to provide managerial autonomy; (b) capacity for operation and facility
maintenance; and (c) financial viability.

Institutional Development and Managerial Sustainability

Strategic Business Planning. With the TA support, NWSC developed a strategic business plan,
especially in terms of performance monitoring and measurement, and asset management. Organizational
reform was introduced to provide a focus on staff responsibilities for key areas of accountabilities. An
evaluation was conducted to assess staff training needs.

An institutional structure was introduced in CMSC for managerial independence and accountability, an
important factor for organizational sustainability. Cixi Municipal Construction Bureau established a
separate Wastewater Administrative Office with the responsibilities of issuing permits for wastewater
connections from urban area and industrial discharges, and compliance enforcement. The Municipal
Environmental Protection Bureau will be responsible for compliance monitoring and enforcement for the
quality of discharges from the WWTPs.

Financial Sustainability

NWSC: Over the ten year period from 2002 to 2011, there had been a significant investment in NWSC
infrastructure, causing an urgent need to increase water tariff. Through previous increases, the water tariff
level had increased 95.1% above the 2004 level. It is anticipated that there will be another significant
increase in 2012. NWSC felt that with the anticipated increase in 2012, revenue from tariff collection will
be able to fully recovery operational costs.

CMSC: In accordance with the Loan Agreement, the financial sustainability of CMSC would rely on
revenue from wastewater tariff collected. Significant increased in wastewater tariff would have to be
instituted based on the current cost analysis and financial projections.

The current wastewater tariffs reflect the latest increase introduced in 2008. In 2010, for urban districts,
the wastewater tariff is set at RMB 1.05 per cubic meter, and the cost for the towns and village covered by
the water supply network is RMB 0.30 per cubic meter. There is no wastewater tariff for towns and
villages outside the water supply service area.

According to the World Bank appraisal and agreement, an increase in 2009 was planned, but was not
introduced. The reasons for failing to introduce the 2009 increase are: a) it was recognized that the water
prices are already among the highest in Ningbo and the surrounding areas; b) at this initial stage of project

                                                 42
completion, and work has just began to integrate sewer connection works and water supply network, it
was considered inappropriate to institute a wastewater tariff to those residents who had not received the
services.

However, CMSC has submitted a report to the municipal government regarding the need to adjust the
wastewater tariff in Cixi. The report recommended that the wastewater tariff for the urban area should be
kept at the current level, and the tariff for towns and villages should be increased to RMB 0.80 per cubic
meter.

At the present time, it is anticipated that a new organization will be established as an overall water service
company, and to integrate the tariff collection system in Cixi. As such, it is anticipated that the proposed
tariff increase will not be introduced in 2011, and the proposed plan for tariff increase will be modified
and a revised tariff plan will mostly likely be realized in 2012. This anticipated tariff adjustment in 2012
may provide much needed revenue to CSMC. However, prior to 2012, the municipal government has
committed to make up the shortfall with government subsidy in order to maintain the financial
sustainability of the CMSC in the near term.

Operational Sustainability

With the TA support, NWSC developed a Central Monitoring and Control System for the entire water
supply and distribution network – a system-wide performance monitoring, reporting and evaluation
system to support the operation, including the use of GIS for data collection and management, customer
and asset management, hydraulic modeling and UFW analysis and reduction. This system will, over time,
provide much needed system performance indicators to NWSC to introduce further efficiencies in all
aspects of its operation.

The CMSC instituted a number of organizational reforms in order to ensure effective and efficient
operation of its facilities:

Operational Standards: Operations of individual WWTPs are monitored by designated staff from CMSC,
in order to ensure that corporate operational standards are followed by the management and operational
staff at all WWTPs.

Staff Training: Operators for pump stations are hired by CMSC. The pump station operator would receive
training and be qualified by CMSC. CMSC also established a special operational unit responsible for
contracting out network maintenance work to contractors with specialized workforce.

BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank Performance

The borrower feels satisfied with the Bank performance during the project identification, preparation,
appraisal and project implementation phases. Staff members from the World Bank Beijing Office provided
clear description of project development procedures required by the Bank, as well as suggestions for
improving project preparation work. Bank staff provided timely assistance to the borrower in reviewing and
completing procurement documents.

From project identification to the the implementation phase, WB has changed the project manager several
times. Each of them made significant contribution to the eventual successful completion of the project.
However, this staff turn-over had undoubtly brought some difficulties and negative influence to project


                                                 43
development. The borrower felt that there has been some delay in receiving Bank’s Aide Memoires,
resulting in not being able to implement Bank suggestions and instructions on a more timely manner.

Borrower Performance

During the project implementation phase, Ningbo DRC provided a pivotal role in project planning,
approvals and project management and coordination, and the IAs effectively discharged their respective
duties and responsibilities and had provided the necessary resources to ensure the project’s successful
implementation.

The Ningbo Finance Bureau provided strong support and worked in close cooperation with IA’s during
project implementation with efficient financial management and allocation of funds.

The NWSC and CMSC expressed that Ningbo Municipal Government provided strong support to the
project from the very beginning by establishing a strong project leading group which was essential in
ensuring effective project implementation. In particular, the Ningbo and Cixi Municipal governments
provided great assistance in terms of land acquisition, execution of the resettlement program, as well as
played an important coordinating role for securing land spaces for temporary use for construction
activities. Furthermore, local governments made significant efforts in adjusting water and wastewater
tariff levels during the period of project implementation, which greatly support the plan for financial
viability of the water and wastewater services, and paved the way for further increases in the future for
full cost recovery.

The CMG also provided financial assistance to the extent of 15% towards the cost of sewage connections
for towns and villages. This increase in sewage connections allowed the CMSC to expand its ability for
tariff collection, as the service areas were expanded and embarked on a program to eliminate direct
sewage discharges to the rivers within the city. In addition, the CMG upgrades to sewage collection
network in the old urban districts as well as installing new sewage collection pipelines along newly built
roads. These efforts will make significant contributions in optimizing sewage infrastructure in the longer
term.

LESSONS LEARNED

It is fully recognized by all implementation agencies in Ningbo and Cixi that the policy guidance and
support provided by the National DRC and the Ministry of Finance were invaluable in securing project
success, not only in terms of effective project implementation, but more importantly, in achieving the
underlying objectives and expected outcomes of the project in terms of enhancing the       protection of
public health, environment and natural resources for sustainable economic growth of        the region.
Highlights and Lessons of the Project

Since the commissioning of the project components, both quantity and quality of raw water sources, water
supply from WTP, effluent from WWTPs and engineered wetlands have been greatly improved.

World Bank financing did more than providing the necessary funds. The project also introduced best
practices and experience for best practices for project management, bid tendering and contracting,
construction supervision, performance evaluation.

With the completion of this project, it has been fully recognized that the Bank’s detailed procurement
process and the fair and just approaches in contract management and construction supervision are
essential factors in ensuring the successful project implementation. The most valuable aspect is the


                                                44
experience gained by relevant IAs and various government departments and agencies. This will certainly
benefit infrastructure development projects in the future.

Institutional Capacity Building. Ningbo has gained a team of professionals with experience and skills in
a number of areas, including project management, engineering design, monitoring and site supervision,
project reporting and evaluation.

Improvements to Urban Environment and Public Health. With the successful implementation of this
project, there have been measurable improvements to the urban environmental conditions by essentially
eliminating all direct wastewater discharges around the urban districts thereby reducing pollution loadings
to the Hangzhou Bay. Quality water supply is now available to most of the Ningbo residents and some
townships. Further gradual further expansion of service area is anticipated in coming years. This
improvement to quality water supply and wastewater treatment will make significant contribution to the
key Project design objective of sustainable economic development in Ningbo.

Institutional Reform for Wastewater Management. TA support evaluated CMSC structure and operation
over two years. The study enabled Cixi to establish an unprecedented institutional structure. The Sewage
Network Company was established and is charged with the responsibility of issuing permits for sewer
connections from urban and industrial sources and monitoring of sewer discharge qualities. This new
organization and its mandate filled an existing functional gap in wastewater management in Cixi.

Capacity in Water Quality Monitoring. An on-line monitoring system was established to provide real-
time monitoring of water quality output from the WTPs. CMSC also established an on-line monitoring
system for its operation. Data generated allows trend analysis and other data interpretation functions in
controlling and improving WWTP operations, as well as system and network planning for the future.

Technology Improvement and Upgrade:

(a) Strategic Site Selection of WTP – The siting of the WTP at higher elevation greatly reduces the
number of pump stations required and energy consumption.

(b) Water Supply Ring Main - This approach is a significant technology innovative in system design,
which addressed an on-going weakness in most designs of urban water distribution system in China. The
Design of Ring Main provides the necessary system flexibility for water flow, pressure and quality.

(c) Wastewater Treatment & Operation – The Eastern and Northern WWTPs had both eliminated the
primary settling ponds and adopted the reverse A2O technology for higher efficiencies for two key
contaminants - de-nitrification and the removal of phosphorous, at a lower cost than conventional
technology.

(d) Water Conservation – Both WWTPs had increased the capability for sludge dewatering with filter
press. Recycled water is used within the WWTPs for landscaping purposes, consistent with China’s
national policy for water conservation.

(e) Sludge Management & Waste to Energy – Both WWTPs had installed belt filter press for sludge
dewatering, with the dewatered sludge having a water content of around 80% being used as fuel at a
power plant for power production.

(f) Improvements to Discharges from WWTPs – Discharge from the WWTPs reached China’s Class 1-B
standards. After further treatment through the wetland, the final discharge is expected to reach China’s


                                                 45
Class 1-A standards. The engineered wetlands had improved local environmental conditions and provided
a nesting ground for migrating birds.

(g) Impacts of the World Bank Safeguard Policies and Measures: Careful considerations were given
during project design to minimize potential impacts for resettlement to reduce the number of residents and
businesses that will be affected, as well as reducing costs to government in terms of compensation and
resettlement costs. Resettlement activities for sub-components were completed in a satisfactory manner
and reasonably on schedule.

Lessons Learned during Project Construction

(a) Support from local government is essential with the formation of a strong Project Leading Group for
oversight and coordination of major issues.

(b) Time for Institutional Reform – Institutional reforms in China often take a much gradual approach
over a longer period of time.

(c) Benefits of General Contractor – The use of general contractor by NWSC and CMSC have helped to
effectively implement relatively large complex projects that, otherwise would require closer supervision
by IAs in resolving on-site construction issues and quality of output.

(d) Benefits of consulting services – Consulting services had provided essential assistance in resolving
technical issues and strengthened project management. This aspect is usually less recognized in China.

Areas for Further Improvements:

(a) More Details and Accuracy for Bid Documents – More specific details and accuracies in the bid
documents in order to facilitate bid evaluation and avoid changes to bid documents and the practice of
under bidding.

(b) Structure of bid documents to reduce the ability of excessive sub-contracting by the winning bidder,
in order to assure quality of outputs.

(c) Stronger overall project management and coordination is required for complex projects. Closer
monitoring and coordination of project completion dates are crucial to timely identify contractor
deficiencies.

(d) Outsourcing WWTP operation and plant maintenance work can be strategic measures in reducing
costs and gain specialized services.




                                                46
                          Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

                     CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Loan Agreement
3. Project Agreement
4. Resettlement Action Plans
5. Environmental Impact Assessment
6. Environmental Management Plan
7. Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
8. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports
9. Semi-annual Project Progress Reports




                                          47
                           Annex 8: Environmental Monitoring Indicators

                          CHINA: Ningbo Water and Environment Project

This annex provides detailed data on pollution reduction, water quality and the performance of
wastewater treatment plants financed under the project. The data presented below includes: (i)
data of treated water quality from the Maojiaping WTP; (ii) wastewater collection and treatment
rates; (ii) influent and effluent quality in the WWTPs; (iv) amount of pollution reduction; (v)
performance of the wastewater treatment plants in meeting the controlled parameters of the Class
1B discharge standard, which contributes to improving water quality data in Hangzhou Bay and
other water bodies.

Table 1 below provides parameters of treated water quality from Maojiaping WTP, illustrating,
that the new water supply system provides a safe and reliable water supply that meets China’s
drinking water standards.
                   Table 1: Treated Water Quality from Maojiaping WTP

                                Sampling                       Treated Water from
                     (mg/l, except noted otherwise)             Maojiaping WTP
                                    Date                            2009.12.7
                            Chromaticity            Degree            ＜5
                            Turbidity               NTU               0.18
                            Odor                                      None
                            Visible Particle                          None
                            PH                                         7.1
                            Total hardness (CaCO3)                     33
                            Fe                                       ＜0.05
            Sensory         Mn                                       ＜0.04
         Characteristics    Cu                                       ＜0.08
         and Chemical
           Indicators       Zn                                       ＜0.03
                            Al                                       0.014
                            CODMn (O2)                               0.72
                            Volatile Phenol                          ＜0.002
                            Anion Synthetic Detergent                ＜0.1
                            Sulfate                                   12
                            Chloride                                  9.4
                            DSS                                       98
                            Fluoride                                 ＜0.1
                            Cyanide                                 ＜0.002
                            Se                                      ＜0.001
          Toxicological
                            As                                      ＜0.001
           Indicators
                            Hg                                      ＜0.0001
                            Cd                                      ＜0.0002
                            Cr6+                                    ＜0.004


                                                48
                                 Sampling                               Treated Water from
                      (mg/l, except noted otherwise)                      Maojiaping WTP
                            Pb                                                 ＜0.0030
                            Nitrate                                                1.8
                            Chloroform                                           0.017
                            CTC                                                 0.0002
                            DDT                                               ＜0.00002
                            BHC                                                0.00006
                            Total Bacterial Count      CFU/ml                    None
         Microbiological Total Coliforms            CFU/100ml                    None
            Indicators      Fecal Coliforms         CFU/100ml                    None
                            Free Chlorine Residual                                0.90
         Radioactive        Gross α Radioactivity         Bq/L                  ＜0.01
         Indicators         Gross β Radioactivity         Bq/L                   ＜0.1
                            Total Alkalinity (CaCO3)                              8.0
                            Nitrite                                            ＜0.001
                            NH3-N                                                0.07
                            Temperature                 ℃                           /
       Results obtained from Ningbo station of National Water Quality monitoring network



Project Contributions to Water Quality Improvements in Hangzhou Bay

Table 1 above indicate the various environmental and treated effluent standards, and reduction of
pollution loads, that otherwise would have ultimately entered Hangzhou Bay. This data
illustrates the project’s positive impact on the Bay’s water quality, even though no specific data
were available to track improvements in the Bay’s water quality, as it receives flows from many
sources.

How much the water quality in Hangzhou Bay improves ultimately depends on how much
pollution is released into the Bay from all sources. Obviously, as these WWTPs have been
operating for only a relatively short period of time, actual measurable reduction of pollution level
in Hangzhou Bay would be unlikely, even if detailed baseline data had been established prior to
project implementation.

However, the actual reduction of waste water related pollutants discharged into the surface water
bodies (and eventually in Hangzhou Bay) can be directly calculated from effluent qualities
discharged from the project financed WWTPs and the engineered wetlands constructed, as
shown below.

Cixi Wastewater Component – Performance Results and Representative Monitoring Data

Table 2 below shows the total annual pollution load reduction from the two WWTPs in Cixi.




                                               49
       Table 2: Pollutant Discharge Reduction in 2010 for Cixi Wastewater Subcomponent

            Pollutant      Discharge Reduction of               Discharge Reduction of
                           Northern Treatment Plant (t)         Eastern Treatment Plant (t)
            COD            2134.01                              305.6
            BOD            581.76                               128.7
            NH3-N          72.11                                18.52
            TN             176.49                               -
            TP             102.76                               1.5
            SS             3865.81                              221.8

Discharge Standard Achieved in the Cixi WWTPs

The data presented below illustrate the performance of the WWTPs and the eastern wetlands in
meeting the stipulated discharge standard, namely, Class 1B for WWTPs and Class 1A for
wetlands. For purposes of comparison, permitted concentrations of Basic Controlled Parameters
of China National Standard GB18918-2006, commonly referred to as Class 1A and Class 1B, are
provided in Table 3 below.

                   Table 3: National Discharge Standard (GB18918-2006)

       Pollutant                       Influent (≤)     Effluent          Effluent
                                                        Class 1B (≤)      Class 1A (≤)
       CODcr (mg/L)                    400              60                50
       BOD5 (mg/L)                     200              20                10
       SS (mg/L)                       300              20                10
       NH3-N (mg/L)                    30               8 (15)            5 (8)
       TN (mg/L)                       50               20                15
       TP (mg/L)                       5.5              1.0               0.5
       Coliform No. (Number/L)         108~109          108~109           103

       Treated Effluent Quality Achieved in North and East WWTPs (GB18918-2002)

       The following tables illustrate the concentrations of parameters that indicate the degree of
       pollutant removal. Table 4 indicates that the average effluent achieved meets class 1B
       and in some cases, even Class 1A discharge standards.

                   Table 4: Performance of North WWTP – October 2010

                                                                          Removal      Removal
                   Influent                         Effluent            (ton/month)   (ton/year)
    Item
            Max    Min         Avg      Max    Min    Avg Removal
           (mg/L) (mg/L)      (mg/L)   (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) (%)
   CODcr    2094    89         483      41        21     32     93.3      623.25      2,134.01
   BOD5     144     23        62.29     18        3.3   11.81   81.0      69.78        581.76


                                             50
                                                                                                                   Removal           Removal
                                      Influent                                  Effluent                         (ton/month)        (ton/year)
                 Item
                           Max    Min              Avg           Max    Min    Avg Removal
                          (mg/L) (mg/L)           (mg/L)        (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) (%)
             SS    7840                66           1517           33          2        15           99.0            2,075.50        3,865.81
            NH3-N 22.00               3.40           9.42         0.12        0.01     0.03          99.7              12.98           72.11
             TP   182.80              0.50          36.66         1.27        0.09     0.64          98.3              49.79          102.76
             TN   153.00              6.63          24.43         6.41        3.17     4.59          81.2              27.43          176.49
             pH    7.78               7.28           7.56         7.85        7.36     7.66           —                 —               —

                                      Table 5: Performance of East WWTP – October 2010

                                                  Influent                                                    Effluent
                    Item          Max                 Min            Avg             Max                Min              Avg       Removal
                                 (mg/L)              (mg/L)         (mg/L)           (mg/L)          (mg/L)           (mg/L)          (%)
                   CODcr          366                 68.8           125.3            76.2              34.4             47.4         62.2
                        TP            1.2             0.33           0.79             0.83              0.12             0.51         35.4
                   NH3-N          4.81                1.83           2.52             0.41              0.14             0.23         90.9
                        pH        8.21                6.77           7.77             8.21              6.67             7.82              -
                        SS        194                     19             80           34                  5              15          81.25


                         Item         Removal (tons/month)               Removal (metric tons for the year)                       Note
                        CODcr                        60                                    305.6
                                                                                                                          Since March 2010
                        BOD5                      29.7                                     128.7
                        NH3-N                     1.75                                     18.52
                          TP                      0.19                                       1.5                           Since April 2010
                          SS                      50.2                                     221.8


        Table 6: Performance of Constructed Wetland in the Eastern WWTP – October 2010

                                                     Influent                                                                   Effluent
        Daily
        flow                    BOD                                                                CO         BOD                                          Colo
                    COD                      TP           NH3-N      SS               Color                              TP       NH3-N        SS
                                 5                                             pH                   D          5                                    pH      r
         M3/d                               (mg/L)                                                                     (mg/L)
10/2    23,417          44.2                                         16       7.35     16           24                  0.156     0.0954       1    7.42    8
10/7    26,357          54.1    6.6                       0.404      17       8.18     16          31.2        6.4      0.168      0.119       4    8.30    4
10/12   20,775          76.2                0.596         0.409      24       8.21     32          36.4                 0.152     0.153        2    8.18    8
10/14   20,088          61.7    2.3                       0.223      18       8.05     32           37                            0.0895       6    7.77    8
10/19   25,359          41.8                              0.154      15       8.21     16          30.4                0.0916     0.136        5    8.44    8
10/21   23,116          39.7                              0.165      15       8.09     16          29.5        8.1     0.120      0.183        2    8.48    8
10/25   29,490          35.9                                          7       7.93      8          35.2                0.200      0.148        4    8.35    8


                                                                          51
10/28    33,424   35.9                   0.212   16    7.99   8    25.4          0.156    0.299     2     8.43   4
Total   202,026    -       -       -       -      -      -    -      -     -       -        -       -       -    -
                                                                   31.1
Ave.    25,253    48.68   4.45   0.596   0.261   16    8.00   18          7.25   0.149    0.153    3.25   8.17   7
                                                                    4
Max     33,424    76.2    6.6    0.596   0.409   24    8.21   32    37    8.1    0.200    0.299     6     8.48   8
Min     20,088    35.9    2.3    0.596   0.154   7     7.35   8     24    6.4    0.0916   0.0895    1     7.42   4




                                                      52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33554
                                                                                                  Hangzhou Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NINGBO WATER SUPPLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NINGBO WATER AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                    Andong             Chongshou                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Daishan Island
                                                                         Shengshan                Xinpu                                                                             CIXI WASTEWATER COMPONENT
                                                      Kandunjiedao                                            Fuhai
             Xiaocao'e                                 Changhe                                                                                                                      For detail, see inset at bottom right.
                                           Tianyuan
                                                Zonghanjiedao                        Xiadin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JIANGSU              Tai Hu
             Simen                     Zhouxiang              Cixi                      Qiaolou           Guanhaiwei                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                        SHANGHAI
Linshan                       Linxia       Dilang                        Kuangyan        Shanglin Lake
                                                                Henghe                                                         Zhangqi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEILONGJIANG                                        ANHUI
  Huangijiabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ZHOUSHAN
                                                                                       Du Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Haining
                               Laofangqiao                      Meihu                                                     Fanshi
    Moushan          Mazhu                                      Reservoir                                                     Sanbei                             Longshan                                                                                                                                                                                                    MONGOLIA                                                             JILIN                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HANGZHOU                                                  Area of Main Map
                                        Yuyao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Zhoushan Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L                                                   of                                                                                             Cixi
                                                                                                                                                                           Xiepu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O                                                     Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NG                    LIAONING        D.P.R. OF
                                                                        Sanqishi                                                                                                                                                        Jintang                                                ZHOUSHAN                                                                                                    MO                                                                                                                                             Shaoxing
                                                                         Dagondye Undustrial Waterworks Jiulonghu
                Xinanjiedao                                                                                                                                                        Meilin Waterworks                                     Island                                                                                                                                                        I         BEIJING                                   KOREA                                                             Tonglu                                                    NINGBO
                                                              Zhangting            50 x 104 m3/d (planned)                                                                         10 x 104 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE
                                                                                                                  Luotuojiedao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BEIJING TIANJIN
                             Dongnanjiedao                           Hemudu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sheng Xian
                                                         Luhu                                   Cicheng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HEBEI                                                                                             Jiande                                                                      Xiangshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zhenhaiqu                Jiangdong Waterworks




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANDONG                              KOREA        JAPAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NINGXIA
   NINGBO WATER SUPPLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yellow
                                                                                                                               Hongtang                                                                    Xiaogang            35 x 104 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea                                                                            Lanxi

                                                                                        Dayin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          QINGHAI
    For detail, see IBRD 33702.                                                                                                                 Zhuangqiao                     Zhuangshijiedao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Beilunqu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Daxie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GANSU                                                    JIANGSU                                                      Qu Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Island                                                                                                                                SHAANXI      HENAN
                                                                     Nanjiao Waterworks                           Gaoqiao
                             Nangnong
                                                                             20 x 104 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                        Yongjiang
                                                                                                                                                           NINGBO                                                 Daqi                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZHEJIANG                                Linhai

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Xiapu                                                                                                                                                                 HUBEI
                                                                                                     Jishigang                                                  Yinzhouqu                                                                            Chaiqiao         Baifeng                                                                                                                                                                                   China




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ZHEJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN
                         Jiaokou Reservoir                                                     Hengjie                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SICHUAN                                                                                                      JIANGXI                                     Lishui




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GQ
                                                                                                                                                                                    Qiu'ai                                                                                           Guoju                                                                                                                                                                       Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ON
                              500,000 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                 Beilun Waterworks




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HUNAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JIANG
                                                                                                              Gulin                                         Zhonggongmiao                                                  30 x 104 m3/d (under construction)                                                                        Taohua                                                                                             FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yunhe

                                                                  Zhangshui                                                                                                                              Dongwu                                                            Meishan                                                   Island                                               GUIZHOU                                                                                                                    Longquan                       Wenzhou
          Zhougongzhai Reservoir                                                                                                                                     Xiaying       Dongqianhu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAIWAN                                                                                                                                             E A S T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sanshan            Meishan
                (under construction)                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Island                                                                                                       YUNNAN                                         GUANGDONG                                                                                                                            Ruianyaozhuang
                                                                                                                                               Jiangshan                Yunlong                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUANGXI                                                     Philippine
                                                                                               Dongqiao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C H I N A
                                               Zhangxi                Longguan          Yinjiang                                                                                             Dongqian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HONG KONG                           Sea
                                                                                                          ³/d




                                                                                                                               Maoshan                                                       Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MACAO                                                                                                                                                                 S E A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Zhanqi                                                                                                                                             LAO VIETNAM
                                                                                                       0m




                      Simingshan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Liuheng
                                                                                                         00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HAINAN
                                             Xiaozhen Pumping                                   2   50 ,
                                                                                                                                                                   Hengxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.D.R.                                                          PHILIPPINES                                          F U J I A N
                                                       Station
                                                                                                                                                            Hengxi                                                  Xianxiang
                                                                             Xikou                                                   Xiwu                     Lake                                     Tangxi
                  Tingxia Reservoir
                                                                 Beidu Pumping
                                                                                                               Fenghua
                                                                                                                                                 /d                            Dongqianhu Waterworks                                                                                                                                                                   CIXI WASTEWATER COMPONENT                                                                                                                                                  WASTEWATER COMPONENTS:
                                                                                                                                               m³
                                                                        Station                                                        0   0                                   50 x 104 m3/d (under construction)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COLLECTION SYSTEM PIPES
                                                                                               Shanxian                            0,0
                                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                         0-                                                     Qiucun         Song'ao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FUTURE PUMPING STATIONS
                                                                                                                       20
                                           Hengshan Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hangzhou                      Bay
                                                                                                                                                      Chunhu                                                          Huangbi'ao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (EXISTING)
                                                                                                                                 /   d                                                                                                             Tuci
                                                                                                                              m³                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS (FUTURE)
                                                                                                                           00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Shitangheng                             North WWTP
                                                                                                                   0   0,0                                                                                                                  Daxu
                                                                                                                -7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sea-Gate                               Scale 10 x 104 m3/d                                                 SERVICE AREAS
                                                                                                              00
SHAOXING                                                                      Dayan                      6
                                                                                                                            Xidian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Western Trunk Sewer System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING SEA-GATES
                                                                                                                                                                                          Xizhou                                                             Juexijiedao                                                                                                 DN400 – 1800mm; L: 30km
                                                                                                                                           Qiangjiao                                  Xiashen                       Qiangtou          Xiangshan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WETLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jiushanlie
                                                                                                                                                                Daijiahe                                                                                                                                                     Archipelago                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING CANALS
                                                                                        Shenzhen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maoyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dongehen
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sizhoutou                                                                                                          BANK PROJECTS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Chongshou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER SUPPLY LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Andong                                                                                              Mid Trunk Sewer System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DN400 – 1800mm; L: 36km
                                                                                                                                                      Chayuan                                Huchen                                      Xinqiao                                                                         INTAKE TOWERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0          2       4       6          8      10
                                                                Shuangleng                                                  Ninghai
                                                                                                                                                                      Liyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Shengshan         Xinpu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
                                                                                                 Huangtan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kandunjiedao                                                        Fuhai
                                                             Baixi Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WATERWORKS:
                                                                                                                                                  Yuexi                                          Chengie                                                   Changguo                                                                                                                                                    Changhe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dingtang                                                                             PIPELINES
                                                                                               Qiantong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xiaotang                Shipu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PUMPING STATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tianyuan
                                                                                                                               Yishi
                                                                                       Chalu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         East WWTP
                                                                                                                                                                    Minggang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Zonghanjiedao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TREATMENT PLANTS                                         Zhouxiang                                                       Cixi                               Xiadin                                                                                          Scale 5 x 104 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hepu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Guanhaiwei
     MAIN TOWNS                                                                       Sangzhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Qiaolou                                                                                            Danshuihong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gaotang Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dilang                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea-Gate
     SUB-MUNICIPALITY (COUNTY) CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                            Gaotang                         Nantian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kuangyan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0          5            10           15           20
     MUNICIPALITY (PREFECTURE) CAPITALS
     RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS                                                                                                          Henghe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Hua'ao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Zhangqi
     RIVERS AND CANALS                                                                                                                                                                                                        Island                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Shanglin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lake    Du Lake
     RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Laofangqiao                                                                                                                                                            Fanshi
     EXPRESSWAYS                                                             TA I Z H O U                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Meihu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sanbei
     NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Longshan
     SUB-MUNICIPALITY (COUNTY) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                      Yuyao                                                                                                           Eastern Trunk Sewer System
     MUNICIPALITY (PREFECTURE) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DN400 – 1650mm; L: 34km

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAY 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33702
                                                                                                     Hangzhou Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NINGBO WATER SUPPLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NINGBO WATER AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                       Andong             Chongshou                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Daishan Island
                                                                            Shengshan                Xinpu                                                                           CIXI WASTEWATER COMPONENT
                                                         Kandunjiedao                                            Fuhai
                Xiaocao'e                                 Changhe                                                                                                                    For detail, see IBRD 33554.
                                              Tianyuan
                                                   Zonghanjiedao                        Xiadin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JIANGSU            Tai Hu
                Simen                     Zhouxiang              Cixi                      Qiaolou           Guanhaiwei                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                       SHANGHAI
   Linshan                       Linxia       Dilang                        Kuangyan        Shanglin Lake
                                                                   Henghe                                                        Zhangqi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEILONGJIANG                                        ANHUI
     Huangijiabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZHOUSHAN
                                                                                          Du Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Haining
                                  Laofangqiao                      Meihu                                                   Fanshi
       Moushan          Mazhu                                      Reservoir                                                   Sanbei                             Longshan                                                                                                                                                                                                    MONGOLIA                                                             JILIN                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HANGZHOU                                                  Area of Main Map
                                           Yuyao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zhoushan Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L                                                   of                                                                                         Cixi
                                                                                                                                                                            Xiepu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O                                                     Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NG                    LIAONING        D.P.R. OF
                                                                           Sanqishi                                                                                                                                                      Jintang                                                ZHOUSHAN                                                                                                    MO                                                                                                                                         Shaoxing
                                                                            Dagondye Undustrial Waterworks Jiulonghu
                   Xinanjiedao                                                                                                                                                      Meilin Waterworks                                     Island                                                                                                                                                        I         BEIJING                                   KOREA                                                           Tonglu                                                     NINGBO
                                                                 Zhangting            50 x 104 m3/d (planned)                                                                       10 x 104 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE
                                                                                                                     Luotuojiedao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BEIJING TIANJIN
                                Dongnanjiedao                           Hemudu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sheng Xian
                                                            Luhu                                   Cicheng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEBEI                                                                                            Jiande                                                                    Xiangshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Zhenhaiqu                Jiangdong Waterworks




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHANDONG                              KOREA        JAPAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NINGXIA
     NINGBO WATER SUPPLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yellow
                                                                                                                                 Hongtang                                                                   Xiaogang            35 x 104 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea                                                                           Lanxi

                                                                                           Dayin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        QINGHAI
For detail, see inset at bottom right.                                                                                                           Zhuangqiao                     Zhuangshijiedao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Beilunqu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Daxie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GANSU                                                    JIANGSU                                                     Qu Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Island                                                                                                                                SHAANXI      HENAN
                                                                        Nanjiao Waterworks                         Gaoqiao
                                Nangnong
                                                                                20 x 104 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                         Yongjiang
                                                                                                                                                            NINGBO                                                 Daqi                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ZHEJIANG                              Linhai

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xiapu                                                                                                                                                                 HUBEI
                                                                                                        Jishigang                                                Yinzhouqu                                                                            Chaiqiao         Baifeng                                                                                                                                                                                   China




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZHEJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN
                            Jiaokou Reservoir                                                     Hengjie                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SICHUAN                                                                                                     JIANGXI                                    Lishui




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GQ
                                                                                                                                                                                     Qiu'ai                                                                                           Guoju                                                                                                                                                                       Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON
                                 500,000 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                               Beilun Waterworks




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JIANG
                                                                                                                 Gulin                                       Zhonggongmiao                                                  30 x 104 m3/d (under construction)                                                                        Taohua                                                                                             FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Yunhe

                                                                     Zhangshui                                                                                                                            Dongwu                                                            Meishan                                                   Island                                               GUIZHOU                                                                                                                    Longquan                    Wenzhou
             Zhougongzhai Reservoir                                                                                                                                   Xiaying       Dongqianhu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAIWAN                                                                                                                                          E A S T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sanshan            Meishan
                   (under construction)                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Island                                                                                                       YUNNAN                                         GUANGDONG                                                                                                                         Ruianyaozhuang
                                                                                                                                                Jiangshan                Yunlong                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUANGXI                                                     Philippine
                                                                                                  Dongqiao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C H I N A
                                                  Zhangxi                Longguan          Yinjiang                                                                                           Dongqian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HONG KONG                           Sea
                                                                                                             ³/d




                                                                                                                                 Maoshan                                                      Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MACAO                                                                                                                                                              S E A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Zhanqi                                                                                                                                             LAO VIETNAM
                                                                                                          0m




                         Simingshan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Liuheng
                                                                                                            00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HAINAN
                                                Xiaozhen Pumping                                   2   50 ,
                                                                                                                                                                    Hengxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P.D.R.                                                          PHILIPPINES                                         F U J I A N
                                                          Station
                                                                                                                                                             Hengxi                                                  Xianxiang
                                                                                Xikou                                                  Xiwu                    Lake                                     Tangxi
                     Tingxia Reservoir
                                                                    Beidu Pumping
                                                                                                                 Fenghua
                                                                                                                                                  /d                            Dongqianhu Waterworks                                                                                                                                                                   NINGBO WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                   0    1      2       3        4      5
                                                                                                                                                m³
                                                                           Station                                                         00                                   50 x 104 m3/d (under construction)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS
                                                                                                  Shanxian                           0,0
                                                                                                                                25
                                                                                                                           0-                                                    Qiucun         Song'ao                                                                                                                                                                                 BANK PROJECTS:
                                                                                                                         20
                                              Hengshan Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Hemudu
                                                                                                                                                       Chunhu                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WATER SUPPLY LINES
                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Huangbi'ao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Luotuojiedao
                                                                                                                                  /                                                                                                                 Tuci
                                                                                                                               m³                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTAKE TOWERS                                                                                               Cicheng
                                                                                                                            00
                                                                                                                        0,0                                                                                                                  Daxu
                                                                                                                   70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Water Supply Ring Main
                                                                                                                 0-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TREATMENT PLANTS
                                                                                                            60
SHAOXING                                                                         Dayan
                                                                                                                             Xidian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WATERWORKS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DN2000 – 8.83km
                                                                                                                                                                                           Xizhou                                                             Juexijiedao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hongtang
                                                                                                                                            Qiangjiao                                  Xiashen                       Qiangtou          Xiangshan                                                                                                                                            PIPELINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jiushanlie                                                                                                                                                    Water Supply Ring Main
                                                                                                                                                                 Daijiahe                                                                                                                                                     Archipelago                                                   PUMPING STATIONS
                                                                                           Shenzhen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DN2000 – 12.35km                                Zhuangqiao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dayin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Maoyang                                                                                                                                                        TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                                                                                                                Meilin Waterworks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dongehen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dagongye Waterworks                                             10 x 104 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sizhoutou                                                                                                          BANK PROJECTS:                                                                                                                                                                                        50 x 104 m3/d (planned)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yongjiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WATER SUPPLY LINES

                                                                                                                                                       Chayuan                                Huchen                                      Xinqiao                                                                         INTAKE TOWERS                                                                                                                                                                      Gaoqiao
                                                                                                                                                                       Liyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Water Supply Main
                                                                   Shuangleng                                                Ninghai                                                                                                                                                                                      TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                                        DN2000 – 6.84km +
                                                                                                    Huangtan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DN1800 – 5.2km
                                                                Baixi Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WATERWORKS:                                         Intake Tower of                                                                                                                                               NINGBO                                               Yinzhouqu
                                                                                                                                                   Yuexi                                          Chengie                                                   Changguo                                                                                                       Jiakou Reservoir                                                                                           Jishigang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dingtang                                                                             PIPELINES                                        50 x 104 m3/d
                                                                                                  Qiantong                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jiangdong Waterworks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Shipu                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hengjie
                                                                                          Chalu                                  Yishi                                                                                    Xiaotang                                                                                        PUMPING STATIONS                                                                                                                                                 Diameter Change                                                                              35 x 104 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                     Minggang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Point
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                    Water Supply Main                                                                                       Nanjiao Waterworks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hepu                                                                                                                                                    DN2000 x2 – 1.16km +                                                                                             20 x 104 m3/d
        MAIN TOWNS                                                                       Sangzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Gaotang Island                                                                                                                                                                                 DN2600 – 6.97km
        SUB-MUNICIPALITY (COUNTY) CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                          Gaotang                         Nantian                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gulin
        MUNICIPALITY (PREFECTURE) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Island                                      0          5            10           15           20                                                                                                                                                                                               Zhonggongmiao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Zhangshui                                                                                           Water Supply Main
        RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                              DN2000 – 3.7km +                                                                                    Water Supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hua'ao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DN1800 – 5.0km
        RIVERS AND CANALS                                                                                                                                                                                                      Island                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ring Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Raw Water Transmission Tunnel                                                                                                                                                                                         DN2000 – 18.1km
        RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DN2400 – 9.55km                                                               Beidu Pumping Station
        EXPRESSWAYS                                                             TA I Z H O U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ³/d           Water Supply Ring Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                        Maojiaping Waterworks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,00
        NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                             50 x 104 m3/d                                                                                       DN1800 – 8.03km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2   50                                                                                          Yunlong
        SUB-MUNICIPALITY (COUNTY) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yinjiang
        MUNICIPALITY (PREFECTURE) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Longguan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAY 2011
