E499
Volume 9
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF KERALA
INDIA
KERALA STATE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Inland Water Transport - Pilot Project
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
(ESAMP)
VOLUME 11 -APPENDICES
Louis Berger International, Inc.
_T1     In association with:
Sheladia Associates, Inc.
Consulting Engineering Services (I) Ltd.
Intercontinental Consultants & Technocrats Pvt. Ltd.
MAY 2002 ,



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                                                 ESAMP
List of Appendices
Pages
Appendix A    A Review of Inland Water Transport in Kerala                                         1-4
Appendix B     Indian National and Kerala State Environmental Policies and Legal Framework         5-9
Appendix C     Kerala State Transport Project Phase I Task Force-First Meeting for IWT Pilot Project  10-11
Appendix D     Kerala State Transport Project Follow Up Consultation for IWT Pilot Project*     12 -13
Appendix E     Kerala Inland Water Transport Project: Rehabilitation & Resettlement: Principle and  14-24
Policy Framework
Appendix F    Table A-1 AK Canal: Canal Fronting Houses and Other Structures                    25-28
Table A-2 AC Canal: Canal Fronting Houses and Other Structures
Table A-3 KV Canal: Canal Fronting Houses and Other Structures
Table A-4 All Project Canal Fronting Houses and Other Structures (Summary)
Appendix G     Kerala Inland Water Transport Pilot Project - Social Assessment- Semi-Structured  29-32
Interview Guide Questions
Appendix H    Glimpses of Waterways through Photographs                                         33-41
Appendix I    Water and Sediment Sampling and Analysis for Pesticides and Heavy Metals          42-49
Appendix I    Technical Review of the Water and Sediment Sampling and Analysis for Pesticides and  50-61
Heavy Metals (Appendix I) as well as for Heavy Metals in the Water Hyacinths
(Appendix M)
Appendix K    The Indian Tolerance Lirpit Values for Different Water                               62
Quality Parameters and Different Use Patterns
Appendix L    Water Hyacinth Management Plan - For KSTP IWT Component                           63-71
Appendix M    Water Hyacinth Sampling Testing and Reporting for IWT Pilot Project               72-78
Appendix N    Inland Water Transport in the Project Area                                        79-83
Appendix 0    Minutes of Scoping Workshop Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project     84-89
Appendix P     Kerala State Transport Project - Consultation                                    90-99
Appendix Q    Annual Maintenance of T.S Canal from Kovalam to Kollam                              100
Appendix R     Dredge Disposal Plan for KSTP - IWT Pilot Project                              101-109
Appendix S    Borrow Areas and Material Sources Available Near project Influence Area             110
Appendix T    Environmental Standards                                                         111-113
Appendix U    Guidelines for Preparing Contractors Quarry and                                     114
Borrow Area Development and Rehabilitation Management Plan
Appendix V    Reporting Formats                                                               115-130
Appendix W    IWT Environmental Design Drawings                                               131-133
LoLuit Betger Inter-niatiotial/ Shelidia A4sociates/ CES/ ICT



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                ESAMP
APPENDIX A
A REVIEW OF INLAND WATER TRANSPORT IN KERALA
A feature peculiar to Kerala is the natural existence of almost a continuous chain of
lagoons and backwaters separated from the coastline by a narrow strip of land, varying
in width from about half a kilometre to twelve kilometres. For generations these water
bodies and lagoons have been used for transportation through a network of connecting
canals. The vast network of inland waterways include navigable lengths of westward
flowing rivers, backwaters and also cross canals and link canals, the lengths of which
vary from 4 to 30 km and with depths from 0.5 to 3.0 m. The inland waterway system
is located in the coastal plain on the west of the State which makes up approximately
10 percent, about 4,000 sq km, of its area and supports 26 percent of the population
(approximately 7.5 million people).
It is known that trade from the ports of Kollam, Kochi, Kozhikode and Kannur, to and
from foreign countries flourished from ancient times. Due to the absence of proper
road transport for the movement of the cargo to various inland destinations, the natural
waterways were improved by connecting them with link canals, with the result that the
canal network became the main transport medium in the State. Initially the total length
of the navigable waterways in Kerala was nearly 1700 km, approximately 12% of the
total waterway network of India which has now fallen into relative disuse.
The relative disuse of inland water transport in Kerala is due to poor maintenance, lack
of dredging, lack of upkeep of inland water transport facilities and competition from
road transport. The pollution from urban areas is an important environmental issue
throughout the waterway network of Kerala. Even in cities where there is a sewerage
system, i.e., Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode, the immediately adjacent
waterways and canals are heavily polluted. Its share of the State's total traffic has
declined to about 1% in recent years. At the same time traffic on existing roads has
increased to saturation levels with high rates of pollution, congestion and accidents.
Even the projected improvement of roads may not reduce the congestion levels
significantly. Studies show that the current imbalance in modal share can be corrected
to some extent by rehabilitating the inland water transport system working in
conjunction with the private sector. This will also provide more economical and
environment friendly competition for road transport. The inland water transport system
can share a large volume of traffic in the coastal belt. In addition, it can support the
efforts to promote international tourism based on the rich backwater resources of the
State.
National Waterways
The responsibilities for the inland waterways in Kerala are administratively divided
between the national and the state governments. The Inland Waterways Authority of
India (IWAI) was set up in 1986 as a statutory body incorporated under the Inland
Waterway Authority of India Act, 1986. The Authority is entrusted with the responsibility
for development, maintenance and regulation of the National waterways for shipping
and navigation and also to advise the Central and State Governments on matters
relating to the development of the IWT sector.
The main navigation route in Kerala is the West Coast Canal (WCC), mainly consisting
of the National Waterway IlIl and having a total length of 558 km, divided into nine
sections as shown in Exhibit 1.7.
Louis Berger lnternational/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              1



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                 ESAMP
EXHIBIT-1.7: SECTIONS OF THE WEST COAST CANAL
SI. No      Section Starting From       Length (km)     Remarks
1      Trivandrum to KolIam                    62
2       Kollam to Alappuzha                    75
3       Alappuzha to Kochi                     71
4       Kochi to Ala                           35
5       Ala to Ponnani                         80
6       Ponnani to Kadalundi                   61
7       Kadalundi to Badagara                  72
8       Badagara to Azhikal                    47     Including an
uncut section
9       Azhikal to Hosdurg                     55
Total                        558 kmX
(Source: Water Resources Of Kerala, PWD, 1974)
As part of a National revival strategy the National waterway from Kollam to Kottapuram
(about 200 Km) is being constructed. The planned design width of 32 m and 2 m depth
will be achieved by dredging of 3.73 million cu.m. of sediments from the shallow
sections and acquisition of land in narrow sections impacting over 1000 houses (DPR,
West coast Canal, July 1992). Approximately 50 km of the National Waterways passes
through the Kuttanad area.
State Waterways
The Irrigation Department of the Government of Kerala is responsible for the state
waterways and water resources. Water resources are vital in order to realize the
potential of the State's agriculture and transport system, the interrelation of which
assumes great significance in the development of the state. The National Water
Policy, adopted in 1987, stresses that 'water is a prime natural resource, a basic
human need and a precious national asset. The planning and development of water
resources needs to be governed by national perspectives".
With the advent of the faster surface transport modes - railways and roads - the
waterways, which provided transport services by country boats, were neglected and
gradually abandoned. During the past few decades, the transport volume has
increased to such a level that the road and rail network cannot cope with it adequately.
Considering the need for an environmental friendly mode of transport and future
energy needs and conservation policy, it is deemed essential to develop the inland
navigation facility in the lowland areas of Kerala.
Development Constraints of the Waterways in Kerala
The main problems facing the Kerala inland waterways transport sector at present are:
*  Lack of depth caused by silting and lack of maintenance dredging;
*  Lack of maintenance of navigation structures and bank protection;
* Absence of aids to navigation;
* Accelerated growth of water hyacinth;
*  Lack of modern inland watercraft, terminals and cargo handling systems.
There are more than 175 feeder links and link canals with a total length of 1160 km.
The most dense canal network of Kerala is in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts.
Therefore, the selected area for feeder canal improvement appears to be the most
suitable for the IWT pilot project. The environmental issues relating to the state
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT             2



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                   ESAMP
waterways are mainly due to weeds, agricultural activities and pollution from urbanand
agricultural sources. The general environmental issues related to state waterways in
the Kuttanad region are described in this Report.
At present, the transport role of the feeder canals is limited to scheduled passenger
traffic, tourist services and short haul cargo movements by country boats The existing
cargo traffic depends greatly on the seasonal movement of different agricultural
products including paddy.
Private operators and local communities/Panchayatl/municipalities will be a focal point
in providing/operating ferries (passenger boats, cargo vessels, barges, etc.) to the
extent possible. The Irrigation Department (ID) of the Government of Kerala prepared
a preliminary report in October 1997 for discussion with World Bank to include the IWT
Pilot Project in the Kerala State Transport Project. The study highlighted the overall
importance of the pilot project.
Status of the Waterways in Keral a2
The maritime importance of the various ports like Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam,
Alappuzha, Kochi, Kozhikode and Kannur was chiefly due to the availability of
waterways extending all along the coast and affording easy transport of its rare and
costly spices. The then rulers of the erstwhile Thiruvananthapuram-Kochi region
constructed the necessary canals to inter-connect natural lakes and backwaters to
form a continuous waterway from one end of the State to the other.
The state's inland water transport system includes 1895 kilometres of inland waterways
consisting of navigable rivers and coastal and cross canals. The canals form about 61
percent while the navigable rivers make up the remainder. Most of the canals are in
the Thiruvananthapuram - Kochi region.
Limitations in the Present IWT System
The inland waterways in the State are shallow in certain regions even for the vessels
that are in use at present. They are unsuitable for carrying heavy vessels, which will
ultimately be more economical.
These waterways which were formerly navigable are now rendered unserviceable for
want of proper maintenance. Side erosion -and silting have reduced the effective
depths of water and this has contributed to a reduction in traffic. Side protection works
and deepening have not been done in most sections for decades.
During the 18'h century attempts were made to interlink the navigable rivers and
backwaters through canals. Thus, the continuous canal from Thiruvananthapuram (in
the south) to Hosdurg (in the north) came to be known as the West Coast Canal
(Exhibit 1.2). This, which is the main waterway, requires renovation. It connects all
minor ports with the major port of Cochin. Approximately 168 km of the West Coast
Canal, linking Kollam and Kottapuram (near Kochi) is now declared as the National
Waterway lll.
Presently the land erosion during the rainy season prevents free movement of boats on
the West Coast Canal. More landing places, jetties and better lighting arrangements
are necessary; the existing landing places are not properly maintained.  In the
Thiruvananthapuram-Cochin area there is a need for constructing additional link
canals in order to connect them with the main canals. The Varkala tunnel, which is of
A Panchayat is the lowest level of administration in India. It is an elected local self-governing body,
which actually means an association of five persons. usually village elders.
Discussion paper for High Level Committee on IWT, Government of Kerala
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                3



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                 ESAMP
five meters width and five meters in height with a draft of only one metre, is the major
bottleneck in the southern region.
Future of the Waterways Sector in General
With the ever-increasing population, the optimum utilization of all available resources is
required to promote sustainable development. The road sector alone cannot meet the
increasing transport demands without major social and environmental consequences.
In this context, the future of the waterways sector in Kerala is bright especially with
regard to the large-scale cargo movements along the West Coast Canal including the
feeder canals (Refer Exhibit 1.5). The role of the feeder canals, such as the selected
pilot project waterways, is imperative as they link the interior urban centres to the West
Coast Canal.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              4



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project               ESAMP
APPENDIX B
INDIAN NATIONAL AND KERALA STATE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
INDIAN ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Environmental Regulations
The major elements of the Indian legal framework for environmental management
are:
The Constitution - provides for protection and improvement of environment and
states that it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the
national environment, including forests, lakes, rivers, and wildlife and to have
compassion for living creatures.
The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974 and The Cess Act of
1977
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981
The Environment (Protection) Act of 1986 - enacted in the wake of the Bhopal gas
tragedy, the Act is an umbrella legislation that provides a framework for Central and
State Authorities established under previous laws. It provides a single focus for the
protection of the environment and sought to plug several loopholes.
The Forest (Conservation) Act as amended in 1988 -18 February 1998 MOEF
circular on linear plantations on road sides, canal and railway lines. This is not
relevant for the IWT Project as the canals mentioned are actually irrigation canals
and not Waterways.
The Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972
The National Water Policy, 1987 stresses, "water is a prime natural resource, a
basic human need and a precious National asset. The planning and development of
water resources needs to be governed by national perspectives".
Policy Statement on Abatement of Pollution, 1992. Affirmed the Government's
intention to integrate environmental and economic aspects in development planning
with an emphasis on the preventive aspects of pollution abatement and the "polluter
pays" principle.
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of Development Projects,
Notification of 1994. Until January 1994, obtaining an environmental clearance from
the MOEF was only an administrative requirement intended for large projects
undertaken by the Government or public sector undertakings. The EIA Notification
issued in January 1994 and amended in May 1994 makes ElAs a statutory
requirement for 29 Identified activities, including transport projects. All development
projects, whether under Schedule I or not, are required to have clearance from
MOEF if they are in certain notified ecologically sensitive or fragile areas.
The Coastal Regulation Zone Notification, 1991. The project waterways do not
come under this notification as the Coastal Zone Management Plan prepared by the
State Government exclude them on the basis of lack of tidal effect in this region due
to the two barrages, which separate them from the sea.
gih July 1997 MOEF CRZ Gazette Notification, Amendments to 1991 Notification
5th August 1999 amendments of MOEF to CRZ Notification: These amendments
were actually meant to ease restrictions on oil and natural gas exploration and
certain other activities in coastal areas The proposed changes will also permit
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT            5



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project               ESAMP
receipt, storage, and re-gasification of liquefied natural gas and salt harvesting by
solar evaporation of seawater in coastal areas under CRZ. The modification further
allows the construction of houses by local inhabitants after obtaining permission from
the Central or State Governments or a designated authority. A new sub clause has
been introduced which allows construction of dispensaries, schools, public rain
shelters, community toilets, bridges, roads and provisions of facilities for water
supply, drainage, sewerage by local inhabitants, especially the fishing community on
a case to case basis.
The Hazardous Waste Management Rules 2000: The rules particularly address
hazardous chemicals and do not include anything related to the project or the
contaminants in the dredged materials.
The Public Liability Insurance Act of 1991. Under the heading of land use, the
following are noted to be of potential relevance to the Project:
* The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act of 1976.
* The Model Regional and Town Planning and Development Law of 1985.
* Provisions in State Acts on Town and Country Planning.
• The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act and Amendment of 1951
and 1987.
* The Mines & Minerals (Regulation & Development) Act and Amendments of
1957 and 1984.
* The Coal Mines (Conservation and Development) Amendment Act of 1985.
Social Regulations
The most relevant Indian regulations for social impact mitigation are:
The Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (amended 1984) on compensation at market price.
The Environmental Impact Assessment Notification,1994, on comprehensive
rehabilitation plans. This notification does not include waterways projects in the list
of projects covered under the Notification.
The proposed IWT Pilot Project requires no land acquisitibn. The social impact
requirement of the Indian Government refers to the Relocation section in the GOI
Environmental Guidelines for Rail/Road/Highway Projects (1989).   The
Guidelines recommend the following mitigation measures for social impacts:
1. Advance notification of enough (say, two years) time must be given to enable
the relocatees to find a suitable place. At the same time, the project
authorities could arrange for public relations through television, radio, and
advertisement on the need for the project and how land acquisition and
compensation will be effected.
2. Advance realistic payment should be available in some form for the
relocatees to secure a new unit
3. The estimation of compensation for land and property should be based on the
fair market value. The term fair market value is defined as being the amount
at which the property would exchange between a willing buyer and a willing
seller and both parties should have reasonable knowledge of all relevant
facts.
4. The choice of replacement of a living unit organized by the project authority
may be made available for the relocatees who are not satisfied with the
compensation amount or who cannot find a suitable house.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT            6



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
5. Re-establishment cost must be carefully considered to offset the loss in
income, increase in expenditure resulting from disconnection of public utility
services and moving cost. Special attention must be paid to the possible loss
of job or business that cannot be re-established.
6. In case of any squatters, a special program for construction of a low cost
housing unit (the labour provided by relocatees) may be set up.
7. A social work subsection should be established to follow up and monitor the
problems faced by the relocaters. This sub-section should also be entrusted
with the responsibility to ensure that individual households relocated receive
sufficient compensation with enough lead-time to secure a new living unit.
The GOI Environmental Protection Act of 1986 requires the preparation and
clearance of Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs) for projects meeting certain
requirements. The Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) had promulgated
Environmental Guidelines for Rail/Road/Highway Projects in conjunction with the
Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST) in 1989. Detailed requirements for the
preparation of ElAs are also outlined in the GOl's Handbook of Environmental
Procedures and Guidelines of 1994. However as per the 1994 EIA notification,
waterways are not included in the list of projects requiring environmental clearance.
The applicability of various National and State regulations, discussed in the previous
sections, are shown in Exhibit 2.1.
EXHIBIT 2.1: ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCES REQUIRED
Clearance    The Reason for Clearance     Status of
Agency             Required or  Requirement                 Clearance
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ n o t
Kerala State Science  Not required.  Not within the CRZ as per the Not applicable
Technology and                  Management plan prepared by the
Environmental                   Government of Kerala.
Department (STEC)
Kerala State Pollution  Not  required  Under Water and Air Act  Not applicable
Control Board     (not listed in Consent to establish and consent
schedule 11 of to operate not required..
MOEF
notification)
MOEF Clearance     Not required  Location of the project not adjacent Not applicable
to any sensitive ecosystems
10 April 1997, MOEF  Not required  Project not listed in the Schedule 1 Not applicable
Gazette Notification            of EIA notification 1994
1991,MOEF CRZ      Not required  Project not located in the Sensitive Not applicable
Gazette notifications           Coastal Regulation zone
Forest Clearance   Not required  No forest involved         Not applicable
State Level Coastal  Not Required  The committee was constituted to Not required
zone management                look into the CRZ related issues
committee clearance             hence not in the purview of the
I_committee
Other approvals, if None        Not Applicable              Not applicable
I any             I _ _ __ _ I_ _   I__ _ __ _ _ _ __ _I__ _ _ _
Kerala State Policies And Legal Framework
The Kerala State policies and legal framework have generally been discussed along
with the Indian national policies for the sake of convenience.
The Proposed Vembanad Lake Management Action Plan: Vembanad Lake is one
of the 15 Indian mangrove areas that have been identified by the MOEF National
Committee on Wetlands, Mangroves and Coral Reefs for intensive conservation and
management A project for the preparation of the Vembanad Lake Management Plan
is being taken up by the MOEF with the assistance of the State Government. This is
a Government of India project to preserve degraded mangroves in the region. The
proposed action plan is only meant for the protection of degraded mangroves in the
region.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                    7



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                ESAMP
Institutional Framework of Inland Water Transport
Government Departments engaged in the development and operation of the water
transport system in the Kerala State are the Coastal Shipping and Inland Navigation
Department (CSIND) and the State Water Transport Department (SWTD). The
Kerala Shipping & Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), Kochi, is working under
the administrative control of the CSIND. The Inland Waterways Authority of India
(IWAI), under the central government, administers the National Waterway Ill, a part
of West Coast Canal (Ref. Exhibit 1.2) in Kerala.
The CSIND undertakes the development of the state inland canal system through the
Irrigation Department. The Irrigation Department has a mechanical engineering
wing, a workshop and six inland canal dredgers. The operations of the Irrigation
Department of Government of Kerala and the Inland Waterways Authority of India are
financed by the state and central government grants, respectively. The share of
income collected by the Irrigation Department from the inland waterway users is
negligible. The IWAI does not collect any direct fees from the users of the National
Waterways at present.
The Irrigation Department is in charge of annual inspection of inland craft, issuance
of fitness certificates (including safety equipment) as well as conducting the inland
masters examination and issuing certificates of competency. For these services the
Irrigation Department collects small fees from the users. Presently, there is a
proposal to recover the costs by an increase in ticket charges, driving license
charges, vessel license charges, etc. The Irrigation Department Task Force (refer to
Appendices A and B) discussed other methods of raising money including developing
one or more tourist areas very close to the waterways.
The private sector involvement in the IWT: There are two areas for such involvement:
1. The IWT companies (along with Government agencies) in the organized
sector, which operate inland vessels, ferries and barges, form the first area.
The companies are normally both ship owners and freight forwarders,
carrying contract-based cargoes on regular routes between the Cochin Port
and industrial terminals in Aluva and Udyogamandal. They render short haul
passenger services and backwater cruises for tourists.
2. The other area is the country boat sector, which plays a very substantial role
in the movement of passengers and cargo on the numerous canals and
backwaters, which are not easily accessible to other surface transport modes.
An accurate census of country craft and the loads carried by them is not
available at present.
The Government run inland shipping agencies, industrial establishments or the
Cochin Port presently operate the inland terminals. There is no institutional capacity
within these agencies to implement the environmental and social impact mitigation
measures and the environmental management plan after construction.
Rules Regulating the Inland Water Transport
Various legislations have been in force after several committees were constituted by
State and Central Governments. The main rules regulating the inland water transport
are:
* Inland Vessels Act of 1917.
* Act VI Of 1096 (Corresponding to year 1921 AD), Travancore Public Canals
And Public Ferries Act. This is a legislation to provide for the establishment of
public canals and public ferries in Travancore, for the management thereof,
and for the regulation of traffic therein.
*  Government Of Kerala, Notification  R  Dis No   938/24/PW, Dated
Thiruvananthapuram, 28"' July 1922
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project               ESAMP
Revised Rules Under The Travancore Public Canals And Public Ferries Act,
1921.
Some modifications to the above Acts and Rules were made in 1940, 1953 and
1977, but the basic law regulating the inland water transport operations is 77 years
old. It is learnt that the institutional framework for the inland water transport is being
revised and new rules and regulations are being drafted.
Required Central/State Level Clearances
The Pilot Project is not located within the CRZ areas and hence no MOEF
(Government of India) Clearances would be required for the Project. In this regard,
page 37, paragraph 2 of the Coastal Zone Management Plan of Kerala prepared by
the State Government states that "The Kuttanad area, though lying below mean sea
level, is protected from tidal effects (salt water influx) by the Thannirmukkom barrage
and Thottapally spillway in the north and the south respectively. Hence it is excluded
from the purview of the Notification"'
The Project R&R Policy
This report has been prepared on the basis of provisions contained in Kerala Inland
Water Transport Project - Rehabilitation and Resettlement: Principles and Policy
Framework (Appendix C), endorsed by the executing agency and the Irrigation
Department of the Government of Kerala. It is also responsive to provisions
contained in the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30: Involuntary Resettlement
(OD 4.30) and Operational Directive 4.20: Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), discussed
in Section 2.4.
As mentioned before, the Pilot waterways component of the Kerala State Transport
Project does not have any significant adverse impact on land or livelihood. However,
the R&R Policy Framework, which addresses the potential social impacts of the
waterway improvements, has been retained for application, in case people are
adversely affected during implementation of the project. Generally, for the Pilot
Project, the approach adopted has been to provide enhancement of community
resources for the people living along the canal.
Gaps In The Regulations
There is an absence of a national legal framework to deal with the waterway related
emergencies such as accidental oil spills. As there could be many waterways
projects in the coming decades, the waterways project could also be included in the
Schedule I of MOEF notification.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT            9



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                    ESAMP
APPENDIX C
KERALA STATE TRANSPORT PROJECT, PHASE I TASK FORCE-FIRST
MEETING FOR IWT PILOT PROJECT
Date: 30 November 2001
Venue: Muscat Hotel Conference Room Thiruvananthapuram
Time: 1500 Hrs
The Irrigation Secretary, Mr Jaya Kumar, IAS, presided over the meeting.
The Task force members attended the meeting is attached as the GO number -G.O. (Rt)
No.27/2001/CSIND,dated Thiruvananthapuram 27.11.2001
The Irrigation Secretary, Mr Jaya Kumar explained the purpose of the meeting and the
Consultant, Environmental specialist presented the various issues to be discussed with a
brief summary of the project activities carried out during the last two years. The Consultants
briefed the outcome of the meeting held at Alappuzha District Collect orate on 29 November
2001. Further the Consultants read the list of various Environmental & Social issues to be
discussed in the meeting. The list is attached as an Appendix-2.
The relevant various issues discussed during the meeting is presented below:
1. Regarding the most important issue of implementation, operation and maintenance
and in particular the ownership of the IWT Pilot Project canals, the Secretary,
Irrigation Department stated that a separate division under a Chief Engineers will be
created with two subdivisions. The Chief Engineer new division will be particularly
responsible for the ownership, operation and maintenance of the Waterways. This
has received minister's consent with no additional financial requirement on the part of
the Government. The consultants informed that this would be a major step for the
revival of waterways sector in Kerala. .
2. Regarding the water hyacinth issue although no readymade solutions are available,
the Task force agreed to take the new technique of 'Clean Flow International
Inc.'on an experimental basis to the Kottayam- Vaikom canal, as this is the most
inhabited section of the Pilot project. More over in this section water is relatively more
stable than the other parts of the pilot project. If this is successful more areas can be
considered.
3. The task force agreed that certain notification will be necessary in order to notify the
entire Kuttanad area as 'Environmental sensitive' with regards to pollution and social
issues in the basin without any penal clauses. The Consultant stated that this is the
most important part of the proposed awareness programme. This notification with no
penal clauses for any action with in the area will provide the 'do's and don'ts' in the
region and the state of Environmental and social issues in the region.
4. With regard to water supply programme, the Government of Kerala has many
ongoing water supply and sanitation programmes. This covers the Kuttanad area
also. On a long-term basis, the water supply in the area will be addressed with the
ongoing programmes of the State Government.
5. The Coconut retting being necessary and also this not being a problem in the
immediate PIA is not considered as major issue. However Mrs Lida Jacob (member
of task force but not attended) during an earlier meeting indicated that the problem
Louis Bergei Inteinatinaill Shel,idfa Associates/ CES/ ICT               I(



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
could be tackled to some extent by using modern techniques with retting time much
less than the traditional techniques.
6. The Agricultural activities were discussed during the meeting. The heavy dose of
pesticides and fertilizers can be reduced to some extent by awareness created
among the paddy cultivators. The Agricultural Department and the awareness
programm should focus on the various bio fertilizers and bio pesticides available in
the market.
7. The overall vision for the waterways improvement has been attributed for the
improvement of Social, Economic, Institutional and Environmental components. For
the people immediately adjacent to the canals, the waterways are an integral part of
their way of Life.
8. National Water Policy could not give adequate attention to the IWT component
especially with regard to the Ecological, economic and environmental capabilities of
Kerala System.
9. The whole activity needs to be translated to verifiable indicators. The task force
identified the verifiable indicators as Physical quality of Canals, Physical quality of
embankments, Chemical quality of Canal waters, Economic activities, Social
improvement, and Tounsm enhancement.
10. The need for legislation for Hazardous cago movement has been identified as an
immediate requirement. It is possible to ban movement of hazardous cargo along the
Feeder Canals by zoning of the waterways. While certain canals and the National
waterways (zones) should not be banned for hazardous cargo movement, as it is
very necessary the IWT Canals could be considered for banned for movement of
hazardous cargo movement.
11. For control of industrial effluents the best way is to strictly enforce the existing legal
framework. The Pollution Control Board will have to ensure the compliance of the
laws.
12. The Tourism Director informed that the department is planning a major project
relating to waterways of Kerala. The project is emphasizing on the restaurant
facilities, Toilet facilities waste disposal system, Petroleum and Oil facilities etc at
Jetties and terminals. The Project is at EOI Stage (early) only. The Coordination of
various activities including social and environmental activities is also part of the
project. The project also considers the carrying capacity of the backwaters.
13. The irrigation secretary informed that Zoning is very important for regulating fishing,
sand mining and hazardous cargo movement. This will be taken up in due course of
time. The sand mining cannot be stopped at the same time it can be avoided along
the navigation canals.
14..Maintenance of Canal is envisaged by introducing toll like system after developing
proper tourist terminals. Another way is to integrate with the local Panchayat for
Floriculture and Horticulture activities along the Canal sides. As sufficient land will not
be available the cultivation can be arranged in the individuals land immediately
available along the Canal sides. The use of organic fertilizers and bio pesticides will
be encouraged with proper coordination of all departments involved
15. The side protection will be further strengthened by the cultivation of suitable species
of mangroves as well as Vattipullu.
LoLis Berjet lnterniattn(al/ Slieladia Associates, CES/ ,T                11



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
APPENDIX D
KERALA STATE TRANSPORT PROJECT, FOLLOW UP CONSULTATION FOR
IWT PILOT PROJECT
Local Consultation-1 at Alappuzha
Date: 29 November 2001
Venue: Alappuzha District Collectors Conference Room
Time: 11.00 Hrs to 1330 Hrs
The District Collector, Mr Gundashekaran IAS, presided over the meeting. The ADM . also
participated.
Participants from KSTP Project Team
1. Mr Ramakrishnan, Superintendent Engineer, ID, Thiruvananthapuram
2. Mr Venugopal -Joint Director, Project Implementation Unit
3. Mr Yohannan, Executive Engineer -ID/PIU, Thiruvananthapuram
4. Mr Sreekanadan Nair, Environmental Officer, PIU
5. Mr Sundara Rajan -Environmental Specialist, Project Coordinating Consultants
(PCC)
The list of 28 people participated in the meeting is appended (Attachment -1) to this report.
Most of the attendees are representatives from various departments. The District Collector
and Mr Venugopal, PIU briefed about the purpose of the meeting and requested the
Consultants to introduce the details of the project. The PCC Environmental Specialist made
a Power Point presentation prior to discussion on various issues. The presentation covered
a brief introduction to the Project. The IWT Pilot project summary in English and Malayalam
was distributed among the participants. Further the Consultants read the list of various
Environmental & Social issues to be discussed in the meeting. The list is attached as an
Attachment 2.
The relevant various issues discussed during the meeting is presented below:
1. The Vice president and a Woman representative from Jilla Panchayat office
presented the Kuttanad Environmental and social issues and informed that the entire
story is narrated everywhere for last many years without any solution. Many projects
are being started but failed to take off usefully to the society. The Vice president
demanded the opening of the Thannirmukkom bund, as this could be the only
solution to the problem. Further more she stresses a co ordination among the Depts
is necessary during implementation for proper completion of the project.
2. Father Joseph Peelianikkal, EE, Kuttanad Vikasana Samithy, informed that they have
taken up few experimental works on the issues. This includes Water & Sanitation
Programme, Water hyacinth disposal, Floriculture and Horticulture along the sides of
the IWT Project canals.
i. Father Joseph told that if the Water hyacinth and Cow dung is mixed
for producing Biogas this would create a permanent solution for the
Water hyacinth menace.
ii. PCC Env. Specialist- a popularization programme covering the entire
Kuttanad area for this technology could be very useful. The otherwise
dumped to water 'cattle dung' and unwanted water hyacinth could be
profitably used for the welfare of the Kuttanad society. The CWRDM
carried out a project some 10 years ago on this aspect. The results
were reported to be not promising.
Louis Bergei internalional/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 12



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
ii The collection and treatment of sewage using structures constructed
with ferro coat is currently using by the people and it is found effective
in the Kuttanad area. Using ferro-cement, water sealed sanitation
programs could be the best solution for improving the sanitation
practices in the region. The estimated cost is Rs 6-7,000 only.
iv. The banks of the IWT canals could be profitably used for Horticulture
and Floriculture. The local Woman groups and NGOs can take up the
programme provided the Irrigation Department provides the land (side
walls) for cultivation.
3. NABARD is also willing to provide loan assistance to take up lakeside amenities. Mr
Chandrashekaran, NABARD Area Assistant Manager, informed that they have both
loan programme and development programme. Under loan assistance they provide
loans for various requirement including the Vermiculture, Sanitation programmes.
They have shared a copy of the NABARD programme for the Alappuzha district
relating to 'Potential Linked Credit Plan 2002-2007'. The operational involvement of
NABARD will be useful to remove some of the obstacles the project may have to face
during the operational Stage.
4. The District Medical Officer (DMO) was interested to learn about the new techniques
developed by the 'Clean flow international. The DMO could not provide any solid
programmes on the health front. The Consultants briefly explained the clean flow
technique.
5. The Superintendent Engineer recommended the use of 'Vattipullu' for Canal bank
Protection'. The engineer explained the draw back of the use of Coir mat against the
geo-textiles. The exposed part of the coir mat was rusted and decayed very fast. The
'Vattipullu' will take over the protection by the time the Coir mat is rusted.
6. The UNICEF representative Mr Muraleedharan informed the meeting that they have
larger plan for Water supply to cover the entire Kuttanad region. A water supply
project for entire Kuttanad is under consideration and this will sort out all drinking
water problems. Other programme includes rainwater harvesting; KWA centrally
assisted KWA programmes as well. Further with 50% investment from the PTA
UNICEF is providing toilets to the schools.
7. Representative from Kainakary Panchayat enquired regarding the method of
dredging and disposal. He also pointed out that the dredged material could be used
for reclamation works.
8. The Municipal Engineer requested to take up the 4 km canals inside Alappuzha town
to include in the IWT Project.
9. Representative from Agricultural department informed that use of organic manure
instead of chemical fertilizers is introducing in the Kuttanad area to reduce the
pollution.
10. The representative from Irrigation Department informed that a proposal for
experimental basis opening of Thannirmukkom bund from next year onwards is
under consideration. This will solve a major pollution problem in the Kuttanad Area.
11. Mr. Balan, Managing Director, Coir group informed that coir Geo-textile fiber could be
used in the Project. They can co ordinate with the concerned department regarding
this.
12. Representative from Kerala Water Transport Department informed that if the canals
are free from weeds and enough depth is available they could operate Boat Service
through these canal routes.
Louits Berger inte natiotial/ Sheladia Associates/ CESi ICT              13



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
APPENDIX E
KERALA INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
REHABILITATION & RESETTLEMENT:
PRINCIPLES AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
1 INTRODUCTION
The Government of Kerala is preparing the Inland water transport project Project. The aim of
the project is to promote greater use of the natural resources of the inland waterways as a
more economical and environmentally friendly mode of traffic and as an integral part of the
states transport network, with private sector and community participation.
The prime strategy of the project is to rehabilitate the inland water transport infrastructure
through dredging, terminal improvements, navigation aids and safety and/or other measures.
Apart from the positive aspects of rehabilitation of the canals the project may cause people to
lose productive land or house plots, structures, wells, trees or other assets and lose income
otherwise.  The policy recognises those people who are likely to be affected by the
upgradation and widening of the water transport network, support mechanisms are proposed
to be provided accordingly.
This policy framework also addresses the impacts of the project on those people who utilize
the inland water as a common property resource and are dependent on it for livelihood like
fishing, manual dredging of spoil, tourism, irrigation and transportation.
This document describes the principles and approaches to be followed in minimizing and
mitigating negative social and economic impacts caused by the project. It provides the basis
for a detailed and time-bound Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which will be prepared for the
project. The RAP will contain the details of census, baseline socio-economic surveys of the
potentially affected population undertaken during the preparation of the project, mitigative
measures, implementation arrangement and plans, budget, monitoring and evaluation
parameters.
2 BROAD PRINCIPLES
2.1  These guidelines are prepared to address the issues related to resettlement &
rehabilitation (R&R) of the project affected persons (PAP). The guidelines outline the range of
assistance in re-establishing their homes and livelihoods in the course of the implementation
of the project. The avoidance of involuntary resettlement is an integral part of the project
design but will be dealt with from the earliest stages of the project preparation. The broad
principles of the R&R policy are as below:
* The negative impact on persons affected by the project should be avoided or
minimized, exploring all viable alternative project designs.
* Where the negative impacts are unavoidable, the project-affected persons should be
assisted in improving or regaining their standard of living.
* People's participation should be undertaken in the planning and implementation of the
project.
* Positive impacts will be enhanced as far as possible
2.2  The project may broadly have three impacts that require mitigation measures. They
are,
* Loss of assets, including land and house
* Loss of livelihood or income opportunities
* Collective impacts on groups, such as loss of common property resources
Louis Berger inite-national/ Sheladia Absoc;ates/ CES/ ICT                 14



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
The first two categories represent direct project impacts on an identified population. The
people likely to be affected by the project will be surveyed and registered, and project
monitoring and evaluation will compare longer-term impacts against baseline socio-economic
data.
The third category represents a group impact, where group members need not be individually
surveyed. Gains and losses of a group-oriented nature are not quantifiable in terms of impact
on the individual. Mitigation and support mechanisms will be collectively oriented, and the
monitoring will focus on impact on such groups.
2.3 All acquisition of private land would be under the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act,
1984, which provides for compensation for the properties to be acquired. Further support will
be extended under the broad principles of the policy to meet the replacement value of the
assets and improve their standard of living.
2.4 The common property resources will be replaced as far as feasible and assistance will
be provided at replacement value to the group.
2.5 Major widening and strengthening work planned will take place within the ROW based
on land availability. However, major land acquisition and many impacts are perhaps not
foreseen except at locations where existing alignment may be improved and/ or widened.
Efforts will be made during implementation to minimize any disturbance in the daily activities
of the local populace.
2.6  Before taking possession of the acquired lands and properties, all compensation,
Resettlement & Rehabilitation and related activities will be made in accordance with this
policy.
2.7 All land acquisition will be after harvest of crop
2.8  If resettlement sites are developed as part of the project, the local "host population"
should also be consulted about their views and needs. There should be no or minimum
adverse social, economic and environmental impacts of displacement on the host population
and specific measures should be provided in the RAP to mitigate any such impacts.
2.9  The broad entitlement framework of different categories of project-affected people shall
be as per Annex I A detailed entitlement framework specifying support for specific losses will
be developed as and when indicated by the social impact assessment.
2.10 During project implementation, the resettlement program will be co-ordinated with the
completion of designs and the likely timing of civil works. The project will provide adequate
notification, counselling and assistance to affected people so that they are able to move or
give up their assets without undue hardship before commencement of civil works.
2.11 The project will ensure that civil works are not started on any segment before
compensation and assistance to the affected population has been provided in accordance
with this policy framework.
3 ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS
Following abbreviations and terms will be found used both in the policy and the RAP:
Abbreviations:
B.P.L          Below Poverty Line
B.S.R.        Basic Schedule of Rates
C.O.I.    Corridor of Impact
DRRC      District Resettlement and Rehabilitation Committee
C.P R.    Common Property Resources
Louis Berger internatiorial/ Shelactia Associatersi CES/ )CT               I



Kerala State inland Water Transport Pilot Project                       ESAMP
EP        Entitled Person
Ha        Hectare
GRC       Grievance Redress Committee
ID        Irrigation Department
M.E.H.    Minimum Economic Holding
N.G.O.    Non-Governmental Organization
P.A.P.         Project Affected Persons
P.D.P.    Project Displaced Persons
R.A.P.    Rehabilitation Action Plan
R.O.      Rehabilitation Officer
R.O.W.    Right of Way
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
R&R       Resettlement and Rehabilitation
S.E.S     Socio-Economic Survey
SC        Scheduled Caste
S.T       Scheduled Tribe
u/s       Under Section
Terms
Corridor of Impact  Width of corridor required for the construction of road and for its safety
zone.
Danam Land         Include lands attached with Temples (pandaramvaka), Mosques
(wakf), Churches (edavaka) etc. where priests are allowed to cultivate
the same without having to pay revenue to the State for the same.
(North Indian, Perso-Arabic derived term is Muafi Land.)
District Collector  Administrative head of a District.
Hectare (Ha)       A unit measuring land area. One Hectare equals 10,000 Sq. meters or
2.475 Acre.
Panchayat           Elected local self-governing body at village level.
4 DEFINITIONS
4.1 CUT-OFF DATE
Cut-off date shall be the following:
a. In the case of land acquisition affecting legal titleholders, the cut-off date would be the
date of issuing the notice u/s 4(1) of LA. Act.
b. For the non-titleholders the cut off date will be the date of census survey
4.2 PROJECT DISPLACED PERSON
A project displaced person (PDP) is one who is compelled to change his/her place of
residence and/or workplace or place of business due to the project.
4.3 PROJECT AFFECTED PERSON
Unless otherwise specified in this Policy document, a project affected person is one who, in
consequence of the project, sustains damages (a) by reasons of severing such land or (b) by
Louis Berger internationial/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/I CT                  I 0



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
affecting his/her immovable properties in any manner or (c) by adversely affecting his/her
livelihood/earnings calculated by an objective assessment. The category of project affected
person (PAP) includes project displaced person (PDP).
4.4 DEFINITION OF FAMILY
a. A "Family" shall mean Husband/Wife and minor children.
b. Every son or unmarried daughter who has attained the age of 18 years on or before
the cut-off-date will be treated as separate family.
c. Every divorced or widowed daughter living separately or with the family on or prior to
cut off date will be treated as separate family.
4.5 LANDLESS/AGRICULTURAL LABOURER
A person who does not hold any agricultural land and who has been deriving his main income
by working on the lands of others as an agricultural labourer prior to cut off date.
4.6 ENCROACHER
A person is an encroacher if he/she has trespassed Government land, adjacent to his/her own
land or asset to which he/she is not entitled, and who derives his/her livelihood and housing
there from prior to the cut-off date.
4.7 SQUATTER
A squatter is a person who has settled on publicly owned land for housing or livelihood
without permission or who has been occupying publicly owned building without authority prior
to the cut-off date.
4.8 BELOW POVERTY LINE
Annual income from all sources is less than a designated sum as fixed by Planning
Commission, Government of India.
4.9 INCOME
Income of a PAP shall mean the amount of income as shown in his Income Tax Return prior
to the cut-off date. In the absence of such a return, his income shall be calculated by an
objective assessment applying the same method as adopted by the Government agencies for
identifying B.P.L. families.
4.10 VULNERABLE PERSONS
Unless otherwise specifically mentioned in this document, a person who has been designated
as falling under the 'Below Poverty Line' category and earning up to 25% above the poverty
level will be considered a vulnerable person. Generally, the vulnerable groups may include
but not be limited to:
* Poor or landless people falling under the "Below Poverty Line" category;
* Members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes;
* Women-headed households;
• Orphans and destitute persons (socially handicapped); and
* Disabled persons (physically handicapped)
4.11 MINIMUM ECONOMIC HOLDING
Agriculture land holding up to 1 ha of irrigated land and 2 ha of unirrigated land as recognized
by the Government of India
Louis Berger Inteinattonal/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                  I 7



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
4.12 ADDITIONAL SUPPORT TO VULNERABLE GROUPS
The project will determine, through census surveys and other studies who among the affected
population may be considered as vulnerable or at risk The vulnerable groups will receive
targeted support and special attention from the project, and provided support mechanisms.
5 BROAD PROCEDURES
5.1 BASIC APPROACH
5.1.1 The project recognizes that along with the positive aspects of the development, there
may also be negative impacts, including the possible loss of assets, the loss of house and
shelter, and the loss of livelihood or income opportunities. Moreover, a project like this inflicts
some impacts on the community as a whole, such as, loss of access to community facilities
like schools and hospitals, access to water and sanitation, access to common property
resources, and in rare cases, prostitution as evidenced during the surveys.
5.1.2 People losing their home represent a particular challenge in the resettlement program.
Every effort will be made by the project to ensure that new housing is available before people
are required to relocate.
5.1.3 Every effort should be made during project design and preparation to minimize
acquisition of land and other assets and to reduce negative socio-economic impacts.
5.1.4 If the project impact leads to people being unable to continue with their previous
occupation, the project will provide support and assistance through alternative employment
strategies. Longer-term earning opportunities will be provided through strategies such as
vocational training, employment counselling, inclusion in income generating schemes, and
access to credit.
5.1.5 The principle is to provide R&R assistance to both PDPs and PAPs. Compensation for
land, however, will not be extended to the encroachers and squatters, considering the illegal
nature of their possession.
5.1.6 The identification of encroachers and squatters, in case they do not possess ration
cards, would be sought from voters' list or from any other legal documents or information from
the cor munity. In the absence of any supporting legal documents, findings of the Census
survey shall be relied upon.
5.1.7 Efforts should be made to ensure involvement of the people and stakeholders in
planning, implementation and monitoring of the project through focus group discussions,
workshops at district and at state levels.
5.1.8 Copies of this document, information on its salient features or its official Executive
Summary, will be displayed at the notice board of the offices of the project authority for
general information to the public. Policy translated in local language should be distributed to
the affected people. Interested public may contact Rehabilitation Officer for further details.
The Resettlement Action Plan will provide detailed information regarding the consultation
process. It will take account of the fact that information must be given at different stages,
repeated, and provided through different media. The consultation process planned for the
project will use different types of consultation such as participatory rural appraisal, in-depth
interviews, focus group discussions, seminars and meetings, and key informant interviews at
different levels of stakeholder involvement, including:
* Household representatives - men and women,
* Clusters of PAPs;
Louis Berger internationial/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                IN



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                       ESAMP
* Village Panchayats;
* District development committee;
* Other government agencies and departments.
5.1.9 The project will therefore ensure that the affected population and other stakeholders
are informed and consulted about the project, its impact, their entitlements and options, and
allowed to participate actively in the development process. This will be done particularly in
the case of vulnerable individuals and groups, who will be encouraged to choose the options,
which entail the lowest risk. This exercise will be done throughout the project life - during
preparation, implementation, and monitoring of project results and impacts.
5.2 COMPENSATION AND R & R
5.2.1 All P.A.Ps. as defined in para 3.3 shall be entitled to resettlement and rehabilitation
besides compensation as stipulated hereinafter.  Those PAPs who are not entitled for
compensation may get R&R benefits as per their respective entitlement framework.
5.2.2 The compensation for land and building shall be provided within the ambit of the L A
Act and to meet the replacement value, R&R assistance will be provided.
5.2.3 All losses, including loss of income, should be compensated within the overall R&R
package as per the broad entitlement frame work. The unit of entitlement framework shall be
the family as defined in para 3.4
5.2.4 In case of acquisition of houses/buildings/other assets, the replacement cost should be
considered. The replacement value will be assessed as per procedure laid down in para 6.4.4
In case the replacement cost is more than the compensation at market price determined by
competent authority, the difference is to be paid by the project in the form of assistance.
Replacement value of land will be assessed as per procedure laid down in para 6 4.3
5.2.5 The entitlement of compensation & assistance will be extended to only those PAPs
who are so identified on or prior to the cut off date. The Grievance Redressal Committee
should deal claims regarding R&R assistance.
5.3 GENERAL ASSISTANCE TO P.A.PS. & P.D.PS.
5.3.1 The shifted population shall be assisted in getting their names included in voters' lists
of the area of their resettlement.
5.3.2 PAPs falling under vulnerable groups shall be provided suitable assistance to minimise
the adverse impacts through various means, which will be described in detail in the RAP.
Louis Berger Internationial/ Shelaciia Associates/ CES/I CT                 I 



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
6 SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND RESETTLEMENT PLANNING
6.1 CORRIDOR OF IMPACT
Displacement under the project will be limited to the corridor required for the canal. This
corridor is referred to as the Corridor of Impact (COI), and comprises typically the total
construction width, inclusive of embankments. The COI can have a different extent to the right
and left from the channel centerline and varies as required.
6.2 SURVEYS
6.2.1 For proper rehabilitation of the project affected and displaced persons, social impact
assessment shall be undertaken. This would help in assessing the magnitude of
displacement, losses to be sustained by PDPs and PAPs, better targeting of vulnerable
groups, ascertaining the cost of R&R, drawing out the rehabilitation package and
administering the same.
The social impact assessment shall consist of two surveys namely:
a. Census survey of 100 percent of PAPs
b. A baseline socio economic sample survey of 25 percent of the PAPs to establish the
monitoring and evaluating parameters.
The purpose of the census is to register and document the status of the potentially affected
population within the project impact area. This will provide a demographic overview of the
population, and will cover people's assets and main sources of livelihood.
The baseline survey shall be completed prior to the date of notification under Section 4(1) of
LA Act. If declaration under sub-section is not issued within the stipulated period as specified
the survey will be undertaken again and the notification under section 4(1) shall be reissued.
6.2.2 The census survey will inter-alia include collection of information about the following:
*  The resource base including land, water, and forest etc., with an assessment of its
development and ecological potential in the pre-project conditions
*  The economy base of the affected people including the modes and magnitude of
production, consumption pattern, related economic institutions and allocation of
various productive resources.
.  Household census covering immovable property owned by the PAPs and other
resources in their possession/use. These surveys would be carried out in association
with local and host communities as well as with the local representatives.
. The social structure, norms, customs, cultural centres, traditions, patterns of
leadership and institutions of social network.
. The census surveys will prima-facie identifies tenants, sharecroppers, encroachers
and agricultural day labourers. During such census survey, those PAPs are dependent
on the waterway for their livelihood, shall also be identified and listed along with their
identified income.
.  Besides this, the survey will also identify PDPs and PAPs, the ST and S.C.
populations in accordance with the S T. and S C. lists of the Govt., the vulnerable
PAPs such as the old, handicapped, infirm, orphans and destitute.
Louis Berger Intemiational/ Sheladia Associates! CES/ (CT                 21



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
6.2.3 Baseline data of the Survey should also include.
•  Accurate up to date maps of the area of project,
*  Analysis of social structure and income resources of the population;
*  Inventories of the resources which the tribal use as well as data on their systems of
economic production;
.  The relationship of the tribal to other local and national groups. Baseline studies
should capture the full range of production and marketing activities in which the tribal
are engaged.
6.3 RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION ACTION PLAN (RAP)
6.3.1 The census survey, which serves to provide baseline socio-economic information about
the affected persons, will be completed before initiation of the preparation for the RAP.
6.3.2 A comprehensive plan for resettlement will be drawn up in advance by the project
authorities based on the socio-economic surveys. The entire plan for resettlement should be
prepared by the project authorities with the participation of local representatives, NGOs, and
including representatives of the PAPs.
6.3.3 The RAP shall be brought to the notice of the displaced and affected persons with the
help of the local NGOs, the representatives of PAPs and the host communities so that they
are able to make their suggestions.
7 IMPLEMENTATION: ACQUISITION OF LAND AND PROPERTIES
7.1 Land surveys for payment of compensation shall be done on the basis of updated official
records and ground facts.  The land records shall be updated relating to title /
classification/current use of land expeditiously for ensuring adequate cost compensation and
allotment of land to the entitled displaced persons. For determining classification/current use
of land, official records as they are on the cut-off date shall be taken into consideration.
7.2 If 75 percent or more land holding of a PAP/PDP is acquired or when the part of a land
remaining after acquisition becomes economically unviable, the owner of such land/property
shall have the right to seek acquisition of his entire contiguous holding/property provided the
residual land is less than MEH.
7.3  The project authority should determine the possible replacement cost of land and asset
to be acquired. For this purpose, project authorities in association with representatives of
PAPs will do land market surveys and professional assesses. While determining the
replacement cost of the land project authority will take recourse to three systems of
assessment described below:
a. Taking into account such prescribed rates or the average of the actual transaction
rates of similar lands for contemporary years for which sale deeds are registered.
b. Taking into consideration 20 times of the annual value of gross production of the
concerned land, averaged over proceeding five years.
c. Fixing up market value of land equal to the minimum land value if so prescribed by the
State Govt. under Indian Stamp Act for the purpose of registration of sale deeds under
Indian Registration Act of 1908.
The replacement cost to be fixed up by the project authority shall be the amount, which shall
be the highest among the three amounts, arrived at by the aforesaid three alternative
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 21



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
methods. In case replacement cost is higher than the market value determined by competent
authority the difference shall be paid in the form of assistance.
7.4 The value of the houses, buildings and other immovable properties of the PAPs including
the PDPs shall be determined for the purpose of payment of compensation at the relevant
B.S.R without deducting the depreciation value.
7.5 Compensation for properties belonging to the community or for common places of worship
which are acquired for the project shall be provided to enable construction of the same at the
new place through the local self-governing bodies.
7.6 Compensation for trees will also be based on their market value in case of timber bearing
trees and replacement cost in case of fruit bearing trees as per the rates decided by the
competent authority in consultation with Department of Agriculture, Forest, Horticulture,
Sericulture etc. as the case may be.
7.7 Compensation shall be paid and efforts will be made to complete the R&R of PAPs/PDPs
before taking possession of the land/properties. The PDPs and PAPs shall hand over the land
and properties acquired to the Government free from all encumbrances such as mortgage,
debt etc., pertaining to the lands and properties acquired. However, in case of any loans, on
such acquired lands and properties given to the PAP by any Govt. agency, remains
unadjusted as per the information furnished by the PAPs or by the loaner agency then such
amounts shall be deducted out of total compensation.
7.8 DISPOSAL OF ACQUIRED PROPERTIES
The acquired land and properties shall vest in the department/organisation paying
compensation for such lands/properties.
8 RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
8.1  Agricultural land for land compensation will be provided to vulnerable person as defined
in para 4.10 will be allotted in the joint name of husband and wife.
8.2  New resettlement sites or site for shopping complexes should be developed, if so opted
by 25 or more number of families of PDPs or displaced shop owners, as the case may be, at
one place preferably in nearby areas. However, where PDPs do not opt for such site and
prefer cash, then adequate assistance towards the cost of infrastructure development will be
given to the PDPs.
8.3 At the new settlement centres, civic amenities like drinking water, internal and link roads,
medical facilities, schools, electricity, etc. will be provided along with any other amenities
which the PDPs had at their abandoned place. Any facilities provided by the Govt. & all
common resource properties being availed by the displaced and affected persons prior to the
project will as far as possible be provided/continued at Government cost at the new place of
their resettlement or at the old place, as the case may be.
8.4 Plots for houses/shops at the new resettlement sites will be provided to the PDPs on
payment basis except for the vulnerable person who will receive it free of cost. The allotment
of plot for house/shop will be in the joint name of husband and wife. Cost of registration to
that effect would be borne by the project authority.
8.5 (i) Economic Rehabilitation assistance shall be provided to the affected vulnerable
families based on the prevailing income to determine the poverty line by the Planing
Commission of Government of India.
Louis Berger internationial/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICV T2



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
(ii) Transitional allowance calculated at the minimum wages over a period of six months.
A lumpsum for shifting allowance and rental allowance, shall be provided to the
affected people.
(iii) Training for upgradation of skills or those related to income generation will be provided
as a part of Rehabilitation assistance.
8. 6 The R&R activities in respect of the tribals should be adapted to their needs and
environment.
8.7 Customary right and land tenure system of the tribal PDPs and PAPs should be
protected..
9 MONITORING AND POST - PROJECT EVALUATION
On completion of implementation of the R&R work, project authorities shall monitor
resettlement & rehabilitation of the PAPs & the host population. Such evaluation will be done
annually, mid-term and end-term from the date of commencement of R&R work by external
agency with the participation of the representatives of the PAPs. Suggestions made in the
evaluation report will be incorporated in the RAP/revised RAP to make the R&R programmes
more effective. The monitoring would be done involving project affected people in assessing
results and impacts.
10 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
10.1 The Irrigation department will have an R & R Cell with one Rehabilitation Officer at the
head office (Project Implementation Unit) who will coordinate the R & R activities and one
land acquisition officer, if necessary, to assist in the land acquisition. In addition, in the district,
the executive engineer will work as the Rehabilitation Officer and will work closely with the
NGOs appointed.
10.2 The cell will be further supported by District Level Committees comprising the Revenue
Officer, any other representative from district administration, representatives of PDPs/PAPs,
NGOs and the executive engineer. The District Level Committees will assess the replacement
value of the property and advise the R& R cell accordingly as well as on any other matter
concerning the social aspects of the resettlement.
10.3 The responsibilities of the Cell will include implementation of the RAP and monitoring
and evaluation.
11 COST AND BUDGETING
The cost of all compensation and R & R works will be an integral part of the overall project
cost, which will be borne by the Project.
12 GRIEVANCE REDRESS
Grievance Redress Cell will be formed at the District levels with representation from PAPs,
Village Council, PWD, Block Administration, District Administration, NGOs, representative of
Panchayat and or Municipality and any other opinion leader who will look into the grievances
of the local people.
13 SCOPE FOR MAKING AMENDMENTS IN THE R & R POLICY
The State Government may from time to time make amendments in this R&R Policy as and
when considered necessary.
Annexure I
BROAD ENTITLEMENT FRAME WORK
LoLis Berger Internationial/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                                   ESAMP
A summary entitlement matrix for the project is provided below A detailed entitlement matrix
will be prepared as needed to specify the individual and group entitlements along the broad
principles outlined in the summary matrix.
KERALA INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Resettlement: Broad Entitlement Frame Work
Impacts And Assistance Criteria                Land                 Inside    Right    of
acquisition          Way
INon                   Non
Vulnerable IVulnerable  Vulnerable  Vulnerable
A.     Corridor    Of     Impact:     Loss     Of     Land     And      Other     Assets
Support Given To Families And Households
Consultation, counseling regarding alternatives,
1     and assistance in identifying new sites and  /     f          f          /
opportunities______
2     Compensation for land at replacement cost,
plus allowances for fees or other charges
3     Advance notice to harvest non-perennial crops, ,   f     /               f
or compensation for lost standing crops
Compensation for perennial crops and trees,
4     calculated as annual produce value for one  /       /
season
5     Compensation or R&R assistance for structures      ' f                   V 
or other non-land assets
6      Rental Allowance                        f                   _
7     Shifting assistance                      I         I            _
Option of moving to resettlement sites (in a
8     group of minimum 25 families) incorporating  f     f          f          f
needs for civic amenities
B.      Corridor      Of      Impact:      Lost       Or      Diminished       Livelihood
Support Given To Adult Individuals
9     Transitional allowance for lost or diminished                            f V  ,,V.
livelihood
Additional economic rehabilitation grant for
10    vulnerable  groups  in re-establishing  or f                  /
enhancing livelihood
11    Employment opportunities in connection with        /          / 
project to the extent possible
Unforeseen impacts shall be documented and
12    Any other impacts not yet identified, whether mitigated based on the principles agreed upon in
loss of assets or livelihood            this policy framework
C. Indirect, group oriented impacts in the vicinity of the road corridor
Group oriented support will be given to mitigate negative Impacts on the community, and to enhance
development opportunities These impacts will be identified in social impact assessment of the
project. Particular support will be targeted at more vulnerable groups; for example by addressing
impacts on common property resources harvested by low income fishermen, privacy of the
community living on the banks of the canals, and any other type of socio-economic dependence on
waterway resources
* The entitlements will exclude the affected non-vulnerable encroachers but include non-
vulnerable squatters.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                                24



A Z-     ,  -,-       ,  0   '  0
De 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t 0 I. 
et u      a_  a  a -           E  E  E r  _
e, C_  _  _ _  E ___  E  E  _ _2 _ _
C L aa- t _  _           -,.' _ _ 
c.  a1 __  __  ___   c  a_  _  >  >  >_   _
tn  < he Nd le D  0  m  le  ~ ~~~.d   i N z  leN
V.  .  ra .  _  r  _                  ,.r  _   1s  °  s °   e -r
X   2  c              E  E  E N  =       N
CL
C L 
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ l S ~   le v4 ,4 _4 _4 c3 c  le  le _  !4o_ _ u 
O                                      N 
0
In   .2  1 _ 0 .  fR  t-   I 0  N .   .   .  ,  N
<  _  X   u _   CC   C  C _  o _ __  __  __  _  _-e s  C_ 
C)  0,  I  I   I  I  I~~0  I  I- -
Z c  -~   I  I   I22               EI
P-  _. 1  -   -  -  -         N IflC N  
0 EN
o          F~
I-  2
o   -
z
<~
u~0 
2 ~ ~ ~~(
o~~~~~~~c
-J  -~~~~~~cc-



ITC   ---
'1    ':, O   CN  C0 ,'  00C  NOC C  N
tN  -_ _ _ x  a_ vO b 'sl I -I-I  -I 1- o
T l a- c    vaoT rsro sr
V. c   It  _l-  vgl ll r U -- 1;1 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 1. 1 31 t   1W 
kx T_      I  -I _1   I I 
v Av_a>a 



-a d a   .8 o 0  .0 r   u  _  _ _  __ _ o r_ 
o   N _   in  -  0  .  __
.,''.' -  0_ (  N ---  -E- U'.ifl C   CN-
a 0 N  fl  C ,0U'. A _]_ l  _N 
$2,
'.' .t':S:, Swb  _5  . __= 
E   E  E  _ - __- ___ E
_ {J<b >a  0  E  E  E 
.E,>'l . >   E SE EE  E E E  E
~~ in~E      
_'  C   _  _  rE C  2 l_ w  _ 
El
0.
0 a _               ; .N
u0<    2 _   E _   .  _ 
<   C (  C (  . 
2     2z 



N-C~~~~~~~~- 
~~~~ C a, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ cC,   C 
C                                0(.(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ct.                                       t4~~ c  c  EE E 
0,           C   a  C  > C
-rN(               W.            (    .Lf
ClC
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
CCCC           C> 
<   -  -  I   I  I  i  I~  I  C  .  - - 
(.'   N  C           E  
a'  u  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  . a a
a., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C         C  C  0  . 0 
<   a ~  C C C  ~-     ~  > 
< ~ ~ ~~~>>                       0. 
7.  617   CD                     .  . >
CCC~~~  C              C  C  C  CW  C



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Plot Project                                 ESAMP
APPENDIX G
KERALA INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PILOT PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
SEMI-STRUCTURED INTERVIEW GUIDE QUESTIONS
Interviewer___                               Date & Time
Code #
Location of Interview and Canal/Chainage
INTRODUCE YOURSELF
INTRODUCE PROJECT (Provide Project Information)
EXPLAIN PURPOSE OF VISIT & INTERVIEW
Background Information
1. Respondent(s) (A,B,C, etc):
2. Age__               3. Sex            4.
Occupatior _
5. Economic Status (H,M,L)     6. Religion        7.
Community_
8. If Residence (Pch, Viii. Block,
Chainage)   h
9. How close to canal? (on or #meters
away)_
10. If Work Location (Pch, Viii. Block,
Chainage)h
11. How close to canal? (on or #meters
away)_
12. Family/Household
Size_
Waterway Use
13. How do you (your household) use the canal/waterway?
Use                          Y/N    Who/househol   Frequency/ xday.   Comment
d member       week, other
Bathing
Clothes-washing
Louis Berger International/ Shefadia Associates/ CES/ (CT                            29



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                                 ESAMP
Fishing                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Getting sand/mud/clay for
bank/bund repair
Getting other food
Raising ducks                                                           .      -
Travel (see travel section)
Waste disposal
As water source (drinking)
As water source
Other/ cleaning, etc)
I rrigation/water gayrden/plants
Coconut-retting
Religious ceremonies
Swimming/recreation.
Receiving goods/deliveries
Purchasing goods from water-
borne vendors
OTHER USES (list beiow)
14. Do you have your own steps to water?         -15. Boat
landing?-
16. Do you/your household own your own boat/vessel?       17.
Meters-
18. Does your boat have a motor?
Water Transport
19. How often does tour household travel on the canal/waterway?
Type of Trip             How      Distance  Public  Own boat    Other      Cost
Often                                  private
To/From Work
To/From School
To/From
Church/Temple/Mosque
To/From Market
To visit friends/social
Other (List)
20. How far (meters) is the nearest jetty?
21. Is your place served by regular passenger service?
22. How often?
23. Are you satisfied with level of service available?
24. If the canal and waterways were improved and service was increased, would you travel on the
waterways more?
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                             30



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                               ESAMP
Alternate Transport
25. Is this place/your residence also served by road?
26. How far away is nearest road?
27. What road transportation is available nearby? At what distance from your residence? Mode
Distance from residence?
Mode                             Distance from residence
2-wheeler
Auto-rickshaw
Bus
28. Does your family own the following?
Type                                 How many?
Bicycle
Two-wheeler
Three-wheeler
Automobile
Small truck
Large truck
29. Are you satisfied with level of road service available?
30. If the road system were improved and service was increased, would you travel on the roads
more?
Preferences
31. What are the three biggest problems in this place/village
a.
b.
c.
32. What is government doing to help the people in this place?
33. Are conditions of canals/waterways a problem for people in this place? Why/How?
34. How could the Irrigation Department do a better job in maintaining the canals?
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                           31



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                              ESAMP
35. Will improving the canals help people in this place? How?
Project Actions
36. The project may include the following actions. What will be the benefits and good effects? Are
their any bad effects?
ACTION           BENEFITS                    BAD IMPACT
Dredging
New Higher Bridges
Jetty Repairs
New Jettys
Bank Protection
Navigation Aids
Improved Terminals       _
Widening
37. The project may also result in the following effects. What will be good or bad about them?
EFFECTS                     POSITIVE                  NEGATIVE
More canal traffic
More Motorised canal traffic
More tourist on canal
38. Can you think of any other good or bad impacts of the project?
39. Will any of these improvements, changes, or effects interfere with your use of the waterways?
Yes/No How?
40. What role can people in this place and local government (ward/panchayat) play in the project and
waterway improvements?
41. Do you have any suggestions for making the project better and more responsive to local needs?
42. Do you have any other comments on the proposed project?
Thank-you very much
If you have additional comments you can send them to the address in the information
booklet
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                          32



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 1 U/S SIDE OF CONFLUENCE OF AC CANAL AND VEMBANAD LAKE
-~~~~~
~ '- i.,
_             f O
Plate 2 ERO[DED BA\NK PROTECTION



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 3 ALAPPLUZHA-CHANGANASSERY CANAL
Plate 4 ALAPPI,,ZH~ HNAAS RN CANAL
I  I.                              .



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 5 AN OLD JETTY AT AC CANAL
Plate 6 KID)ANG--\RA I 001BRI3R11)E -C(A\



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 7 NARROW STRETCH OF AK CANAL
Plate JUNCTION OF CANAL AND t AK[-AC CA.A[
_   II                              az       X



it t r   t   i  , lir                        p
APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 9 ERODED BANK AT AK CANAL
Plate 10 TEMPC)RAR) WVOODEN FoOOIBRID)GF-Ak ( ANAL
I     'I  It 



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 11 TERMINAL LOCATION AT KOTTAYAM
Plate 12 1 Xi,ISIN(C PASS,ENGER JETTY A I K ETAY AM
W.'i               r     i'- F F



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 13 KOTTAYAM-VAI KOM CANALS NEAR KAN I RAM J UNCTION
Plate 14 KOTTAYAM V'\IKOM CANAL
_  I. I      ,ij



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 15 CHANGA\NASSERY BOAT BASIN
Plate 16 1U'LL1KU.TISSERYBRIr)(i1-KV CA\AL



APPENDIX H
GLIMPSES OF WATERWAYS THROUGH PHOTOGRAPHS
Plate 17 TANERMUKHOM LOCK-KV CANAL
Plate 18 TANERNAJKI 10M LOCK-KV CANA\L



APPENDIX I
WATER AND SEDIMENT SAMPLING
AND ANALYSIS FOR PESTICIDES AND
HEAVY METALS
REPORT SUBMITTED TO
LOUIS BERGER INTERNATIONAL INC.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Central Water Analysis Laboratory
Centre for Water Resources Development &
Management
Kozhikode 673 571 Kerala



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project             ESAMP
1 INTRODUCTION
M/S Louis Berger International Inc. is undertaking the design of the Inland
Water Transport Pilot Project for the Irrigation Department under a contract to
the PWD. This project is to upgrade three water ways viz. Alappuzha to
Kottayam, Alappuzha to Changanasserry and Vaikom to Kottayam. M/S Louis
Berger International Inc. has requested CWRDM to undertake sediment and
water samples at selected locations along the proposed water ways. The
sampling locations are shown in fig.1. As per the agreement, a team from
CWRDM collected water and sediment samples along the water ways on 1 7th
May 2000. The samples were subjected to analysis for selected quality
parameters. The results of the analyses are given in Table I, II & Ill.
Sediment samples at six locations were subjected to pesticide and
heavy metal analysis. The heavy metals include, Mercury, Chromium,
Cadmium, Copper, Lead and Arsenic. The sediment samples were also
analyzed for pesticides such as DDT, BHC and DDE. Faecal Coliforms was
analyzed in all the water samples collected from six locations. Water samples
at three locations were analyzed for Oil and Grease, pH, Dissolved Oxygen,
Biological Oxygen Demand and Total Suspended Solids.
2 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
2.1 Water Quality
The water quality parameters analyzed were for pH, dissolved oxygen,
biochemical oxygen demand, oil & grease, total suspended solids and faecal
coliforms. The results of the water analyses are presented in Table I.
2.1.1 pH
The pH of natural water usually lies in the range of 4.4 to 8.5 . Its value is
governed largely by the carbon dioxide/carbonate/bicarbonate equilibrium. It
may be affected by humic substances, by change in the carbonate equilibria
due to the bioactivity of plants and in some cases by hydrolysable salts.
The pH value at the sample collected near the Changanesserry proposed
boat jetty (station no.1) is slightly acidic having a value of 5.32. The value are
normal at all other stations. The low pH value noticed at Chenganacherry may
be due to the discharge of waste from the nearby market, stagnant nature of
the water and also high biological activity due to coverage of weeds.
The range of pH prescribed by Central pollution Control Board(CPCB) is 6.5
and 8.5, which is the range which provides adequate protection to the life of
fresh water fish and bottom dwelling invertebrate fish organisms.
2.1.2 Dissolved Oxygen
The solubility of atmospheric oxygen in fresh water ranges from 14.6 mg/l at
0°C to about 7 mg/l at 350C under 1 atmospheric pressure. CPCB



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project             ESAMP
recommends a dissolved oxygen value of 6-4 mg/I in all types of water. The
minimum dissolved oxygen concentration of 4 mg/I reflects freedom from
acute oxygen consuming organic pollution upstream of the water body.
The dissolved oxygen values ranged from 5.0 to 6.33 mg/l in five stations
except at Changanaserry, which recorded a very low value of 1.27 mg/I. The
low concentration may be associated with heavy contamination of organic
matter. But a low value for the Biochemical Oxygen Demand indicates that the
station is reasonably free from oxygen demanding pollutants. The weeds,
which cover the water body at this station, may be preventing the dissolution
of atmospheric oxygen.
2.1.3 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)
BOD is the amount of oxygen utilised by microorganisms in decomposing the
organic matter. BOD approximates the amount of oxidizable organic matter
present in the solution. In the study area BOD values range from a minimum
of 0.73 mg/l to a maximum of 2.33 mg/I. According to CPCB recommendation,
the BOD value 2 mg/I or less of the water ensures that the water is almost
pure. The biochemical oxygen demand of 3 mg/I or less of the water ensures
reasonable freedom from oxygen demanding wastes. Since no water samples
is reported to have BOD value more than 3 mg/l it can be assumed that the
sampling stations are reasonably free from organic wastes.
2.1.4 Total Suspended Solids(TSS)
The concentration of total suspended solids range from 1.0 mg/l to 31.5 mg/I.
The water sample collected at Changanacherry recorded highest value of
suspended solids.
2.1.5 Oil & Grease
Oil & Grease is any material, which is extracted or recovered as a substance
soluble in either petroleum ether or hexane. If present in excessive amounts,
this may interfere with aerobic and anaerobic biological processes. According
to Bureau of Indian Standards for Industrial and Sewage Effluents Discharge,
the maximum permissible concentration of Oil and Grease in effluent to be
discharged to inland surface water is 10 mg/I. All the water samples analyzed
contain oil & grease at a concentration 10 mg/I or less. The maximum
concentration of 10 mg/I was noticed at Allappuzha boat jetty. A heavy traffic
of passenger boats and tourism activity may be contributing the comparatively
high concentration of oil and grease at this place.
2.1.6 Faecal Coliforms
Water usually contains millions of various microorganisms, mostly harmless,
although at times it may also contain pathogenic organisms. Faecal pollution
and sewage contamination are some the frequently encountered water quality
problems. A measure of the degree of microbial pollution is needed to
determine the suitability of the water for drinking, swimming or aquaculture.
4-- I-T



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project             ESAMP
Sanitary conditions are considered satisfactory as long as the faecal coliform
bacterial levels do not exceed a long mean of 200 per 100 ml based on a
minimum of five samples taken over a 80 days period as long as at least 10 %
of the total samples taken during any 30 day period do not exceed 400 per
1 00 ml.
A high concentration of feacal coilform was detected in all the locations except
at Marthandam. The values range from 4300 MPN/100 ml to 7500 MPN/100
ml. Maximum value was observed at Changanaserry station.
2.2 SEDIMENT QUALITY
The parameters analyzed for sediment are pesticides and heavy metals. The
analytical data on heavy metals are presented in Table II and pesticides in
Table Ill.
Mercury, Chromium, Cadmium, Copper, Lead and Arsenic are the heavy
metals analyzed. The pesticides include DDT, BHC and DDE.
2.2.1 Heavy Metals
Significant quantities of heavy metals may present in domestic waste waters
and sewage. The use of detergents adds cobalt, chromium, arsenic etc to the
waste water. Sewage sludge if discharged into the waters may be a significant
source of copper, cadmium, zinc and lead. Run off from urban areas during
the rainy seasons is rich in certain heavy metals such as copper, chromium,
zinc and lead. The relative quantities depend on the factors such as road
traffic conditions, land use and city planning. Lead from automobiles is
released into atmosphere, which later gets deposited at surface, and finds its
way in the run off.
Agricultural soils are usually rich in heavy metals as a result of the use of
various fungicides, herbicides, phosphatic fertilisers, organic manure and the
presence of decaying plant and animal residues.
The sediment deposition works as important sink for heavy metals. Most
metals entering the aquatic system ultimately will find their way into
sediments.
Of the six heavy metals analyzed, Arsenic, Cadmium and Mercury were not
detected in any of the samples.
2.2.2 Pesticides
Pesticides can enter in water by a number of ways such as by run-off,
deposition from air and by direct sprays on water surface to kill mosquitoes
and such other such vectors. These chemicals in water can remain in
dissolved or suspended form. However, a significant portion gets adsorbed on
the surface of silt and organic particles, settling finally to the bottom with the
net result of an increase in their concentration in the sediments and mud-
water interface.



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project             ESAMP
DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2.2 bis (p-chlorophenyl) ethane), DDE (1,1-dichloro-2, 2-
bis (p-chlorophenyl) ethylene) and BHC (mixture of a stereoisomeric
1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachloro-cyclohexane) were analyzed in all the six sediment
samples. Of the pesticides DDT was not detected in any of the samples. But
DDE, derivative of DDT was detected in one sample collected from
Changanacherry. BHC was detected in all the samples, the concentration
range from a maximum of 38.35 mg/kg to a minimum of 6.35 mg/kg.
3. REFERENCES
APHA, 1995(19 ed.)Standard Methods for Examination of Water and
Wastewater. American Public Health Association, AWWA, WPCF,
Washington DC.
AOCS, 1984,Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official
Analytical
Chemists (14th ed.) Association of Official Analytical Chemists Inc.,
USA.
CPCB, 1979, Scheme for Zoning and Classification of Indian Rivers,
Estuaries
and Coastal Waters. ADSORBS/3/78-79. Central Pollution Control
Board, New Delhi
Goel, P.K., 1997, Waterpollution-Causes, Effects and Control, New Age
International (P) Limited, New Delhi
Fresenius, W., Quentin, K.E., and Schineider, L. (eds.). Water Analysis-A
Practical Guide to Physico-chemical, Chemical and Microbiological
Water
Examination and Quality Assurance, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
Rump, H.H., and Krist, H., 1992.Laboratory Manual for the Examination of
Water,
Wastewater and Soil, VCH, New York.
Jackson, M.L., 1973.Soil Chemical Analysis.Prentice Hall of India Pvt.Ltd.New
Delhi.



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
TABLE I ANALYTICAL REPORT OF THE WATER
SAMPLES
No  Station             PH      ~~~    ~~~DO  BOD  TSS    Oil &     Faecal
No       Station                   PH     Omg/      mg/B    mgTI    Grease   Coliforms
mg/l  mg/l  mg/l    mg/l   MPN/100
ml
1.    Changanassery             5.23     1.27     1.2     31.5     0.4     4.3 x 103
Proposed Boat Jetty(l)    5
2.    Kavalam North
Opposite to Govt.         6.58     6.0     2.33      5.5     7.2     2.1 x 104
Technical School &
Church Jetty(2)
3.    Alappuzha Nehru Boat      6.65    6.33     1.66     2.0      10.0    7.5 x 102
Jetty(3)
4.    Marthandam Office Jetty.
Between Marthandam        6.53     5.8     0.73     4.5      5.6       43
Block & R Block(4)
5.    Kanjiram. Vaikom          6.30     5.0      2.0      1.0     1.6     1.5 x 103
Route(5)
6.    Near Chepankul            6.83    5.87     1.54     2.5      2.0     7.5 x 102
Bridge(6)
Note: ND - Not Detected



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                         ESAMP
TABLE II CONCENTRATION OF HEAVY METALS IN
SEDIMENT SAMPLES
No   Station              Arsenic   Chromium      Copper   Cadmium      Mercury     Lead
mg/kg         mg/k        /kg      mg/kg      mg/kg      mg/kg
1.  Changanassery          ND          ND         5.95        ND         ND        0.45
Proposed Boat
Jetty (1)
2.   Kavalam North
Opposite to Govt.     ND          ND          7.35       ND         ND        0.55
Technical School
& Church Jetty(2)
3.  Alappuzha Nehru        ND          6.25       10.95       ND         ND        0.95
Boat Jetty(3)
4.   Marthandam Office
Jetty. Between        ND          ND          7.30       ND         ND        0.50
Marthandam Block
& R Block(4)
5.  Kanjiram. Vaikom       ND          1.70        4.0        ND         ND        0.15
Route(5)
6.  Near Chepankul         ND          ND         3.85        ND         ND        0.20
Bridge (6)
Note: ND -Not Detected



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                       ESAMP
TABLE III: CONCENTRATION OF CHLORINATED
PESTICIDES IN SEDIMENT SAMPLES
No    Station                   DDT      DDE      BHC
mg/kg    mg/kg    mg/kg
1.   Changanassery              ND      12.70     20.35
Proposed Boat Jetty(1)
2.   Kavalam North
Opposite to Govt.          ND       ND        6.35
Technical School &
Church Jetty(2)
3.   Alappuzha Nehru Boat       ND       ND       22.8
Jetty(3)
4.   Marthandam Office Jetty.
Between Marthandam         ND       ND       14.95
Block & R Block(4)
5.   Kanjiram. Vaikom           ND       ND       6.40
Route(5)
6.   Near Chepankul Bridge      ND       ND       38.35
(6)
Note: ND- Not Detected



APPENDIX J
Technical Review of the Water and Sediment Sampling and
Analysis for Pesticides and Heavy Metals (Appendix I)
as well as for Heavy Metals in the Water Hyacinths (Appendix M)
As they relate to:
Environmental and Social Assessment
and Management Plan (ESAMP):
Kerala State Transport Project
Inland Water Transport-Pilot Project
Prepared for:
Louis Berger International, Inc.
In Association with:
Sheladia Associates, Inc.
Consulting Engineering Service (I) Ltd.
Intercontinental Consultants and Technocrats Pvt. Ltd.
Prepared by:
EA Engineering, Science, and Technology, Inc.
15 Loveton Circle
Sparks, MD 21152
May 2002
50



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
1 REVIEW PREAMBLE
EA Engineering, Science, and Technology, Inc. (Sparks, MD) was requested by
Louis Berger International, Inc to evaluate the "Environmental and Social
Assessment and Management Plan (ESAMP) for the Kerala State Transport Project,
Inland Water Transport-Pilot Project", dated January 2002. EA's review was focused
on the issues directly related to the dredging of the canals, with specific attention
placed on review of the Water and Sediment Sampling and Analysis for Pesticides
and Heavy Metals (Appendix 4.2) and the Water Hyacinth Management Plan
(Appendix 4.5).  EA founded in 1973, is a science and engineering firm that
specializes in environmental issues related to water quality and sediments with
particular expertise in dredged material evaluations and dredged material
management.
2 WATER AND SEDIMENT SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS , FOR
PESTICIDES AND HEAVY METALS (APPENDIX 4.2)
The Kerala State Transportation Project includes rehabilitation of three feeder canals
to encourage industrial development. Approximately 23 km of the Alappuhza-
Kottayam (AK) canal, 28 km of the Alappuhza-Changanassery (AC) canal, and 42
km of the Kottayam-Vaikom (KV) canal will be improved. One aspect of the canal
rehabilitation is dredging to improve transport capacity on these canals.
The sediments were sampled at six locations and analyzed for the heavy metals,
mercury, chromium, cadmium, copper, lead, and arsenic as well as the pesticides
DDT, DDE (metabolite of DDT as well as an impurity of DDT), and BHC. Benzene
hexachloride is the common name for hexachlorocyclohexane [HCH]. It is a
synthetic chemical that exists in eight chemical forms called isomers (US Department
of Health and Human Services 1997). The different isomers are named according to
the position of the hydrogen atoms in the structure of the chemical. Technical grade
HCH is a mixture of several chemical forms of HCH, with virtually all of the
insecticidal properties associated with the gamma isomer which is typically between
10-15 % of total HCH.
Additional parameters evaluated from selected stations were oil and grease, pH,
dissolved oxygen, biological oxygen demand, total suspend solids, and fecal
coliforms (generic bacterial parameter). The samples were collected by use of a
Echman Dredge sampling technology off of land connections such as bridges or
jetties. This technology has a maximum sampling depth of approximately 15 cm of
sediment and functionally often only 10 cm of sediment. Thus, the samples are
considered surficial samples (only the most recently deposited sediments in the
water ways). The parameters selected for analysis were performed following
recommendations by the Environmental Specialist of the World Bank Aide Memorir.
Sampling locations were:
-  Changanaserry Boat Jetty
* Kavalam North
Alappuzha Nehru Boat Jetty
* Morthandam Office Jetty
* Kilirour
* Near Cheepumkal Bridge
The instruments/procedures used were Gas Chromatography and Atomic Absorption
Spectrophotometric techniques.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              51



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
The findings from these analyses appeared to be reasonable (as well as the
supporting discussion) for the generic parameters of oil and grease, pH, dissolved
oxygen, biological oxygen demand, and total suspended solids. The samples also
proved to have elevated levels of fecal coliforms which is not an unrealistic finding for
this region of India and the related land use practice and human activity.
Of the six heavy metals analyzed in the sample, three were not detected (however,
no minimal detection limits were reported to determine if the detection limits were
sufficiently low enough to determine adequate or safe levels). The three metals were
arsenic, cadmium, and mercury. The metals, copper (3.85-10.95 mg/kg), chromium
(for this review, assumed as total chromium and that the valiance state of the
material in the sediment was Cr+3, rather than the considerably more toxic Cr+6;
concentrations ranged from non-detectable to 6.25 mg/kg), and lead (0.15-0.95
mg/kg) where all found at sufficient levels to warrant further investigation. Using the
US Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) guidance, the concentrations of metals found
in the sediment were not of sufficient levels to indicate potential problems in the
elutriates (or the re-suspended sediments in the water column due to dredging). The
USACE conversions were compared against the World Bank Standard and were
considerably below these levels for the metals analyzed.
Three pesticides (actually two pesticides and one of the pesticides metabolic by
products) were also evaluated. The six locations were evaluated for DDT [dichloro-
diphenyl-trichloroethane) (non-detectable, however, no minimal detection limits
reported to insure that the detection limits were low enough to be deemed truly safe),
DDE [dichloro-diphenyl-dichloroethylene] (found in one sample at 12.7 mg/kg) and
BHC [or HCH] (ranged from 6.35-38.35 mg/kg or ppm). A previous study in this
region by BKH Consulting Engineers (1989) found the sediments to range in BHC
from 0-200 ppb (20,000 ng/1). At first glance it would appear that the sediments in
the most recent sampling were considerably more concentrated with regards to BHC
then the 1989 study. However, the most recent samples were collected using the
surficial sampling techniques and only sampled the most recently deposited
sediments that have not been allowed to undergo anaerobic degradation in the
sediment. Thus these concentrations are probably worst case. The report which is
subjected by this review goes on further to claim that the pesticides should not be of
concern because they are not persistent in tropical conditions and thus no long term
effects on aquatic life or humans that consume fish, prawns, or clams are expected It
is our belief that this statement is somewhat true in that there should not be any long
term effects anticipated due to the tropical conditions of this region, these pesticides
will have a potential to contribute to effects on aquatic or humans if the sediments
from the dredging operations are not managed correctly. This is because the
sediments may have sufficient levels of BHC to contribute to an adverse aquatic
impact for a relatively short period. The pesticide BHC is readily degraded under
anaerobic conditions but not under aerobic conditions (further discussed below). In
addition, DDE is highly persistent in the environment and may be of greater concern
if it becomes more wide spread and at higher concentrations.
In summary, it appears that the sampling and characterization of the sediment was
adequate given the objectives of the project and the benefit of earlier studies that
helped limit the analytical parameters needing monitored.
3 CONFINED DISPOSAL FACILITY
It is proposed that the canals will be dredged hydraulically, creating a sediment slurry
which must be dewatered. As discussed earlier, the narrow reaches of the canals
may be dredged using mechanical dredging technology. In addition, the sediment to
be dredged is contaminated with BHC [or HCHI and other pesticides and should be
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              52



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
confined to allow the pesticides to degrade before it is re-used. This will limit
exposure of the local people and the ecosystem to the potentially harmful pesticides.
Sediment collected within the dredging project area was characterized in the
Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan (ESAMP) for the Kerala
State Transportation Project: Inland Water Transport as having up to 38 mg/kg (ppm)
HCH (most likely technical grade hexachlorocyclohexane). Four isotopes primarily
represent HCH. They are alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-HCH. For conservative
reasons and toxicological data base considerations, our recommendations have
been developed as if all of the HCH is gamma- hexachlorocyclohexane (lindane)
which is the predominate isotope contributing to ecological and toxicity by the
chemical (US Department of Health and Human Services 1997).
According to Howard et al. (1991), lindane has a half-life of 240 days in highly-
contaminated waters and soils and a half-life of 13.8 days in less-contaminated
waters and soils. They further report the unacclimated, aerobic biodegradation half-
life for highly-contaminated samples is 413 days and less-contaminated samples is
31 days. However, under anaerobic conditions, the half-life is roughly 6 days.
In addition, ammonia-nitrogen is a common chemical contaminant of dredged
material. Ammonia is the natural degradation product of vegetative material in the
sediment. Dredging activity may release considerable concentrations within the
dredge plume. Should local fish kills be observed during the dredging operations, the
level of ammonia should be monitored. If the level is >20 mg/L NH3, ammonia is a
likely candidate rather than other chemical parameters.
Confined disposal facilities (CDFs) provide a means to dewater dredged sediment
and an effective means to treat the contaminated sediment. The degradation of the
HCH will be enhanced in the anaerobic environment and the material will be
contained so the degradation can be safely monitored. For these reasons, it is
recommended that dredged material be pumped into CDFs and monitored before
they are re-used.
CDFs would be constructed to hold the dredged sediment until it has dewatered and
the HCH has degraded. The dredged material can then be removed from the
facilities and re-used. The CDFs should be sited and designed with the following
objectives:
* stability of the facility and surrounding area;
*  minimal impact on the environment and local population;
•  location close to the dredging area;
* cost to construct and operate the facility; and
*  potential re-use of the dredged material after dewatering.
The following sections outline CDF site selection and provide information to the
engineer for finalizing the design. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has published
a manual detailing the design of CDFs which is an invaluable reference. The manual
is EM 1110-2-5027, "Confined Disposal of Dredged Material" and be located on the
World    Wide    Web     at   http-//www.usace.armv.mil/inet/usace-docs/enc-
manuals/eml 1 0-2-5027/toc.htm.
4 EXISTING INFORMATION
The three canals are located in the Alappuhza and Kottayam Districts.  For
discussion purposes it is assumed that the entire dredging operations will be
performed using hydraulic technology, because this technology will be the most
complex with regards to dredged material management. However, it is understood
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ [CT              53



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Ptlot Project                  ESAMP
that for reaches of the canal that are narrow, mechanical dredging will be the
technology of choice. The estimated volumes to be dredged from each canal are
summarized in the Table 1.
Table 1 DREDGING VOLUMES
Canal                           Dredging Volume (cu m)
AK                              69,700
AC                              36,000
KV                              50,100
TOTAL                           155,800
The sediments are primarily clayey and silty in nature (fine-grained soils) based on
the geotechnical investigation performed in December 1999-January 2000. This is
expected since the surficial sediment in the canals is most likely the result of runoff
from the surrounding area. Typically, fine-grained soils erode during rainfall events
and are transported in the runoff until they are deposited over time in less turbulent
locations. Additional geotechnical information is provided in Annex II of the Final
Engineering Report, April 2000 which may be useful for design of the CDFs.
5 CDF LOCATIONS
The design engineer will need to determine viable locations for CDFs. The CDFs
should be located near the dredging area to minimize cost associated with managing
the hydraulic dredge pipeline and managing the effluent from the dewatering
operations within the CDF. Ideally, locations adjacent to the canals will provide the
required engineering characteristics and will be economically advantageous.
Multiple CDF locations will likely be the most cost-effective approach to contain the
dredged material since over 90 km of canal will be dredged. The engineering
analysis to determine CDF locations should consider the stability of the facility and
surrounding area, the impact on the local population and the environment, and the
cost to construct and operate the facility. Each of these objectives is discussed in
more detail in this section.
The stability of the CDFs must be considered to prevent human or environmental
disasters which could occur due to failures of the CDF dikes or foundation; however,
the CDFs will be temporary structures until sediment is dewatered and pesticide
concentrations are reduced. The geotechnical design should consider that the
facilities are temporary and not permanent structures. Slope stability analyses
should be performed for the CDF dikes to verify that the proposed geometry and
construction materials will be stable during construction, filling, and consolidation of
the dredged material.  Slope stability analyses may also be required for the
surrounding area if the CDF is proposed near the canal embankment or other slopes.
Settlement of the dikes and foundation should also be considered to verify that
dredged material will be contained during filling and localized settlement of the dike
will.not allow the wet sediment to flow over the dike and compromise its integrity.
The CDF locations should minimize potential impact to the local population and
environment. Property issues may be the most important in determining where the
CDFs can be constructed in urban areas. For this reason, rural areas may be the
best locations for the CDFs. Locations should minimize disturbance to existing
property with high use or which are economically valuable for the region as well as
minimizing impacts to the environment. Areas which are clear of structures and trees
and are not currently used for other purposes would be ideal. For the basis of this
recommendation three to five CDFs may be required, however, further siting studies
would have to be performed to determine the site and number of CDFs required.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              54



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
The cost to construct and operate the CDFs is very related to the CDF locations as
previously discussed. The CDFs should be located adjacent to the canals to
minimize hydraulic dredge pipeline and sediment dewatering costs. The cost to
construct the CDFs can be minimized by selecting locations where equipment and
material can be easily brought to the site. Native site soils should be utilized to
construct the CDFs if possible, based on availability and engineering characteristics.
6 CDF CAPACITY
Confined disposal facility capacities may vary significantly across the project based
on the evaluation of locations for the facilities. Some may handle the dredged
material from a small portion of the canal while others may be in central locations
where a significant volume of dredged material will be placed.
An individual CDF must be designed to hold the in-place volume of dredged
sediment to be sent to it multiplied by a bulking factor due the intrusion of additional
water caused by the hydraulic dredging process. Hydraulic dredging introduces a
significant volume of water into the sediment typically producing a slurry with
approximately 10 percent sediment and 90 percent water by mass. The sediment
will dewater within a few weeks and the capacity will be reduced by 200 to 400 % of
its original in-place volume depending on the amount of coarse-grained versus fine-
grained soil in the sediment
(e.g., 36,000 cu meters of sediment dredged will create approximately 360,000 cu
meters of dredged material slurry which will dewater to roughly 90,000 or 180,000 cu
meters in just a few weeks). This volume will further decrease over time as the
sediment consolidates, but consolidation will not be a factor unless the dredging is
expected to be performed in stages over several years.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers manual EM 1110-2-5027 includes a CDF capacity
methodology based on measured characteristics of the sediment to be dredged.
This methodology can be used to determine the required CDF capacity and geometry
to contain the dredged sediment.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ [CT              55



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
7 CDF DIKE DESIGN
The CDF dikes must be designed to safely contain the dredged sediment and water
during placement and dewatering.  Dikes for temporary facilities are typically
constructed of soil. Performing slope stability analyses is the most critical aspect of
dike design. This section gives general guidelines for the dike geometry and
construction, but the actual dike geometry and material characteristics must be
evaluated using traditional geotechnical methods.
The dike geometry can be defined by the height, top width, and side slopes. The
dike heights will be determined as part of the capacity evaluation, considering the
volume of material to be dredged, a bulking factor accounting for water entrainment,
freeboard, and the area of the CDF footprint. A dike width of 2m is standard with
interior slopes of 2H:1V and exterior slopes of 3H:1V.
The dike material should be selected to provide the best value. Using a sandy soil to
construct the dikes may result in a smaller dike cross-section because it will be more
stable, but it may be expensive to import from offsite. Using site soils will be very
inexpensive, but if they are silty or clayey in nature, the dike cross-section may need
to be increased to provide the required stability. The dike material should be placed
in controlled lifts and compacted.
Dikes can also be constructed with stone armor on their exterior to provide protection
from wave action and erosion. This may be required if CDFs are constructed near
the coast or on the shores of water bodies with significant wave action or erosional
forces. Stone armor may also be used if the CDFs are intended to be permanent
structures and require additional protection against erosion during monsoon season.
Stone armor is not recommended for temporary facilities since it will be expensive to
purchase, deliver, and install, and will not be required once the facility is removed
and the soil is re-used. Use of earthen dikes would allow material contained in the
CDF to be easily graded when the material contained in the CDF is sufficiently
remediated without the complications of removing the stone or masonry used as dike
armor or the entire dike.
Some of the CDFs may be designed to be permanent structures intended to raise the
grade of the land adjacent to the canals. These smaller, permanent structures may
be constructed with short masonry or stone walls which will not be removed when
dredging is complete. Un-reinforced masonry walls are not recommended for larger
facilities where the total depth of dredged material may be 3 meters or more. Design
for dikes with tone or masonry walls were provided in the original ESAMP.
8 CDF WEIR DESIGN
A significant volume of water is introduced into hydraulically-dredged sediment and
the CDF must have an ouffall structure to decant the water as the dredged material is
pumped into it. Typical weir structures are concrete but use boards to control the
outfall elevation. This provides an easy means to increase the outfall elevation as
dredging operations proceed.
A typical weir structure is shown in Figures 1 and 2. It should be constructed with
concrete and can be precast or cast-in-place. The outfall pipe can be selected based
on locally-available materials, but must be able to withstand the load of the CDF dike
on top of it. Drainage material should be placed around the downstream one-third of
the outfall pipe as shown on Figure 2 to relieve water pressure along the pipe and
prevent                                                         piping.
The material is typically placed 0.5m around all sides of the pipe.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              56



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                    ESAMP
Settlement of the outfall pipe must be considered during design. The dike will cause
some settlement of the outfall pipe and foundation and may cause reverse-sloping of
the outfall pipe. This must be avoided to maintain good flow through the pipe. If
settlement will be an issue at the site. The overall slope of the pipe can be increased
or the pipe can be cambered during construction to allow for the settlement.
The outfall must discharge to an area which is prepared for the flow. Ideally, the
CDFs will be located adjacent to the canals and the outfall pipes can be positioned
so the water flows back into the canals. If this cannot be performed in some
locations, the water should be discharged in a non-erosive manner to existing
stormwater control structures or natural watercourses.
9 CDF OPERATION
Operation of the CDF is critical to maximizing dewatering of the dredged sediment.
The floor of the CDF should be constructed so it slopes toward the outfall structure.
Hydraulically dredged sediment should be placed in the comer of the CDF furthest
from the outfall structure. Any sandy soil will begin to accumulate where the pipeline
discharges into the CDF because it settles very quickly. Fine-grained soils will be
carried further in the slurry as it flows toward the outfall and will be deposited over a
larger area. Mechanically dredged material should be placed evenly into the CDF to
allow compaction as well as maximum volume storage.
As the dredged material builds up in the corner, the pipeline is moved to begin
deposition adjacent to the area which has been filled. Depending on the size of the
disposal facility and the length of the dredging window, internal embankments or
swales can be constructed to more effectively control the water flow within the CDF.
Large CDFs with long dredging windows provide the best combination to manage the
dredged material and reduce the required ultimate capacity of the facility.
The boards in the outfall weir structure shall be placed to allow the water to build up
to a depth that allows sufficient settling of the fine-grained soils. The height of the
outfall weir will determine the quality of the discharge water from the CDF. As
dredged material builds up within the CDF, additional boards are placed in the ouffall
weir to increase the height at which water flows out of the facility.
Typically, total suspended solids criteria in the discharge water is established to
protect the quality of the waters receiving the effluent. The effluent can then be
sampled for total suspended solids to determine if it is meeting the criteria. In lieu of
establishing criteria and performing on-going testing, visual inspection of the effluent
can be performed. If the effluent is becoming too muddy, another board can be
placed in the outfall weir.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 57



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
10 RECOMMENDED MONITORING OF SEDIMENT IN CDF
It is our recommendation that the dewatered sediment in the CDF be monitored for
BHC (or more generically HCH) which has been the organic compound contaminate
of concern in the January 2002 report. In addition we also recommend that DDE be
monitored as well as endosulfan (that was determined in the 1989 report as being
detected). In addition unless additional information exists to determine the following
parameters as inappropriate we recommend that pesticides such as parathion,
malathion, dieldrin, and endrin also be monitored in the dewatered sediment.
Another pesticide that has been used in the US for high yield rice production is
methylcarbamate. This compound also has another reason to be monitored because
it is a chelator of metals (thus if they are used in the high yield rice production,
concentrations of heavy metals may increase.  As an additional monitoring
safeguard, we recommend that the heavy metals copper, lead, and chromium be
evaluated as well as zinc (which has been found to accumulate in the water
hyacinths (see below).
With the exception of BHC, if the concentrations of the pesticides and heavy metals
remain at or below the concentrations found in the January 2002 report the sediment
in the CDF can be used for beneficial re-use purposes. Given the nature of BHC,
storage of sediment in the CDF under anaerobic conditions should degrade BHC to
non-detectable levels also allowing the sediment to be beneficially reused. IN
addition, the parameters listed below will be primarily associated with the sediment
and not released in the water during the dewatering process. In summary, the
following parameters are recommended at a minimum for monitoring of sediment in
the CDF:
*  BHC (or technical grade HCH)
.  DDE
.  Endosulfan
.  Parathion
. Malathion
.  Dieldrin
•  Endrin
.  Methylcarbamate
* Copper
.  Lead
* Total chromium
* Zinc
It is recommended that one sample represented by an aliquot composite of five sub-
samples in each CDF should be evaluated at a minimum. The five sub-samples
should be collected using a hand auger (or other appropriate core sampling
technology) through the entire depth of the dredged material collected from the four
corners of the CDF and one from the middle of the CDF. Methods should follow
NOAA 1989 for the pesticides and EPA 1983 for the metals (or their equilvalent).
11 WATER HYACINTH TISSUE LOADING
The heavy metal loading of water hyacinth tissues were evaluated and are presented
in Table 2.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT              58



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
Table 2 Concentration of Heavy Metals in Water Hyacinth (mg/Kg dry weight)
Metal      Ch          Ka           Al-Ne       Ma           Km          Ch
conc.  in
Mg/kg      L      R    L        R   L           L        R   L      R    L       R
Zinc       7.0   5 0   34     34    40    36    34    46     29    31    13     6
Manganes   2600  2500  10150  16250  11650 7000  19620 -5   7100   3450  1250  3750
Copper     10    17    2      29    11    17    10    2     7      21    14    5
Chromium   2.8   1.6   3.8    7.6   4.9   6.0   7.0   7.0   4 2    4.9   6.9   4.2
Iron       1100  55     10    70     00   90     100  600   4250   2350  11700 4950
Lead       10.5  10.5  13    10     12    13.5  10    13    17.5   11.5  12    9.0
* L- Left side of the Canal
* R-Right Side of the Canal
. Ch-Changanasserry
* Ka Kavalam
* Al-Ne- Near Alappuzha Nehru Boat Jetty
* Ma-Marthandam Office Jetty
*  Km- Kanjiram-Vaikom Route
* Ch-Near Chepankul Bridge
The manganese and iron concentrations in the water hyacinth are not unrealistic for
this plant because they have a high affinity for many heavy metals and are actually
very good remediation technology for heavy metal contamination (phytoremediation).
Manganese and iron are essential metal nutrients and are very common metals in
soil. Thus, they should be anticipated to be elevated. It is difficult to evaluate the
zinc, copper, chromium and lead levels with out knowing the management option to
be used.  In the January 2002 report, it appears that Option 7 has the most
reasonable chance of being selected given the levels of heavy metals found in these
plant tissues. If Option 7 is selected, the plant tissue body burdens should be
evaluated using land application rules similar to the US CFR503 rules for the land
application of WWTP biosolids.
If these rules are applied the following observations can be made:
* CFR503 13 (b) (3) Table 3 Monthly Average Pollutant
Loading Concentrations are:
* 2,800 mg/kg for zinc
* 1,500 mg/kg for copper
* 300 mg/kg for lead
* not regulated for chromium
* CFR503 13 (b) (1) Table 1 Ceiling Pollutant Loading
Concentrations are:
a 7,500 mg/kg for zinc
* 4,300 mg/kg for copper
* 840 mg/ kg for lead
* not regulated for chromium
Using this assessment, the plant tissues as a manure compositing option would be
acceptable. However, other options such as cattle feed (Option 1), etc may not be
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 59



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project               ESAMP
desirable because of the heavy metal contamination. Plants, and in particular water
hyacinths, are not anticipated to bioaccumulate organic compounds that may be in
the water column. Thus, it is justified that these parameters were not evaluated.
12 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Our review of the requested report yield the following observations and conclusions:
*   The sediment appeared to be adequately evaluated with regards to
sediment sampling and parameters selected given previous studies.
*   The sampling technique selected  most likely yield worst case
information on the pesticide BHC [or HCH] because it only evaluated
the top layer of sediment (most recently deposited sediments)
*   CDFs would be our recommendation option for management of the
dredged material because it will offer an opportunity to degrade the
BHC as well as provide de-watering of the sediment prior to release for
beneficial re-use.
*   Prior to release of the sediment for beneficial re-use the sediment
should be monitored for DDE and BHC at a minimum, but we
recommend the additional parameters:    Endosulfan, Parathion,
Malathion, Dieldrin, Endrin, Methylcarbamate, Copper, Lead, Total
chromium, and Zinc.
* Based on the tissue burden found in the water hyacinth, Option 7 is the
most plausible option when assessed using US EPA 503 Land
Application of Biosolids rules.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT           60



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                   ESAMP
13 REFERENCES
BKH Consulting Engineers. 1989. Kuttanad Water Balance Study. Draft Final
Report Volume 1: Main Report. Kingdom of the Netherlands, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, Republic of India, State of Kerala. December 1989.
Howard, P. H. 1991. Handbook of Environmental Fate and Exposure Data for
Organic Chemicals, Volume ll, Pesticides. Lewis Publishers, Chelsea, Ml.
Howard, P. H., R. S. Boethling, W. F. Jarvis, W. M. Meylan, and E. M.
Michalenko.1991.  Handbook of Environmental Degradation Rates.    Lewis
Publishers, Chelsea, Ml.
NOAA. 1989. Standard Analytical Procedures of the NOAA National Analytical
Facility. 2nd Edition. NOAA Tech. Memo. NMFS F/NWC-92, 1985-1986. Contact
National Status and Trends Program, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, NOAA N/ OMA32, 1140 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852.
US Department of Health and Human Services 1997. Toxicological Profile for Alpha-
, Beta, Gamma-, and Delta-Hexachlorocyclohexane. US Department of Health and
Human Services, Public Heath Service, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
Registry, Atlanta, GE, September 1997.
US EPA 1983. Methods for the Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes. US
Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory,
Cincinnati, OH.
Verschueren, K. 1983. Handbook of Environmental Data on Organic Chemicals. 2nd
Edition. Van Norstrand Reinhold Company, New York, NY.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT               61



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                       ESAMP
APPENDIX K
THE INDIAN TOLERANCE LIMIT VALUES FOR DIFFERENT WATER QUALITY
PARAMETERS AND DIFFERENT USE PATTERNS
A            B            C            D         E
Drinking Water      Outdoor    Drinking Water   Fish    Irrigation
Parameters           Only       Bathing      Complete     Culture
Disinfection               Treatment    Wildlife
pH                   6.5-8.5      6.5-8.5      6.5-8.5     6.5-8.5    6.0-8.5
DO (mg/l)              >6           >5           >4           4
BOD (mg/1)             <2           <3           <3           - _
Total Coliform         <50         <500         <5000
(N/1 00ml) 
Total hardness        <300           -            -
CaCo3 (mg/l)
Calcium hardness      <200                 -            -               -
(CaCo3 )(mgI1)
Chlorides                          <250           -           -        600
mg/I
Phosphates                         <400           -         <400      <1000
mg/I
Nitrates                           < 20           -          < 50       -
mg/i
Pesticides           absent          -         absent         -         -
Ammonia                                                                <1.2
mg/l
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                   62



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
APPENDIX L
WATER HYACINTH MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR KSTP- IWT COMPONENT
1 INTRODUCTION
The Inland Water Transport (IWT) Pilot project is one of the Phase -1 components of
the Kerala State Transport Project to be implemented with the World Bank loan
assistance. The project has taken up three canals in the Kuttanad region linking
Alappuzha, Changanaserry, Kottayam and Vaikom. As a part of the improvement
proposals no widening and land acquisition has been proposed, however there will
be dredging and water hyacinth removal in all the three feeder canals in order to
create sufficient depth for smooth operation of design vessels.
In order to address the various associated environmental issues and impacts, an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) including an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) have been prepared. The Water hyacinth Management Plan is part of the
Environmental Management Plan for IWT project. This will be a guiding factor for the
Contractor and the Project authorities to control the weeds for the smooth operation
of the waterways.
The IWT Project require the assessment of the impact of water hyacinth infesting
long stretches of the feeder canals on the operation of Waterways project. The
presence of water hyacinth is adversely affecting IVVT operations and needs
measures to be recommended for its control. The significant presence of water
hyacinth in the backwaters and canals in the PIA (Project Influence Area) poses a
serious hazard for the movement of all types of inland craft.
This is the objective of this document.
2 IWT PROJECT WATERWAYS
Although the total length of the canal is approximately 100 km the project
improvement activities will be confined to 75.5 km only. The remaining portion is part
of the now implementing National Waterways-Ill.
3 WATER HYACINTH - DESCRIPTION, DEFINTIONS AND OTHER
DETAILS
The Water hyacinth (Eichornia Crassipes) is a free-floating plant, originally a native of
Amazon River basin of South America. It was introduced from Australia about 100
years ago as an ornamental plant in South-East Asia. It has later established itself
throughout the tropics, and propagated explosively under favourable aquatic and
agro-climatic conditions. Temperate zones are free from this plant, as it does not
survive in severe frost. In India it became a serious menace in Bengal in the year
1914 and spread to other States including Assam, Bihar, Orissa, eastern Uttar
Pradesh, fresh water lakes in Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and rivers and backwaters
in Kerala. The problem became so severe that legislation was enacted in Bengal in
1919 for the eradication of water hyacinth and later in parts of Orissa and United
Provinces (now Uttar Pradesh).
Water Hyacinth dies at a faster rate in higher salinities than in lower salinities.
Water hyacinth is a fresh water plant. It has seeds and tiny roots but grows and
multiplies rapidly by vegetative propagation. When the plant is saturated, it becomes
submerged and a few of its roots may touch the riverbed in shallow depths.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT           63



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                   ESAMP
Several varieties of aquatic weeds are found in the project canals and backwaters in
the PIA and include six types of floating plants. These are:
-     Eichornia Crassipes (Water hyacinth)
-     Salvinia molesta (African payal)
-     Nymphaea stellata (Water lily)
-     Nymphaea nouchali
-     Nymphoides cristatum
-     Nymphoides indicum
Water hyacinth grows well in the climate of Kerala primarily in the fresh water zones
in the Project influence area (PIA). The growth of other weeds in the project area is
normal and under Control. It should not be introduced to a new area, as it is one of
the most pernicious weeds on earth. According to Fisheries Department, water
hyacinth is good for certain types of fishes called "Murrals". They provide a protective
layer for this fish and under its shade the 'Murrals' breed in large number
Research works have been carried out in several countries to eradicate this weed,
but no suitable method could be found so far. Research on optimum design for
machines to harvest and dehydrate water hyacinth has not been pursued.
4 WATER HYACINTH ALONG THE FEEDER CANALS
One of the most popular components of the pilot project is the water hyacinth
removal and control. The water hyacinth issue is the second most serious concern
after dredging and the associated disposal of sediments in the project. According to
the studies carried out so far, it can be assumed that there is no observed definite
pattern for its occurrence along the canals. Any mapping of the weed in the region is
thus a futile exercise. The nature of its appearance and disappearance is
spontaneous. Due to heavy currents during the monsoon season the weeds
disappear completely. However a study with much larger scope covering the entire
Kuttanad area would be useful to estimate total quantity at any given point of time.
The presence of water hyacinth presents a poor aesthetic sight for the tourists who
would look forward to seeing cleaner waterways while cruising along in the tourist
launches and boats. This document addresses the Water hyacinth locations, its
quantity, disposal and associated environmental issues.
Serious Threat to Local Communities - The flow of water decreases when water
hyacinth completely covers the water surface; the water becomes stagnant and as a
result mosquito's breed in large numbers. This seriously affects the health of the
people unless prompt and vigorous action is taken to eradicate it. Also due to
stagnation, the water becomes polluted, a dirty smell arises, and drinking water
becomes a serious problem to the common people.
Nuisance to Navigation and Fishing Operation - Apart from being a nuisance to
fishing operations, it causes a serious hindrance to navigation. The propellers of
motorized vessels often become fouled with this weed resulting in their frequent
stoppage to clear their propellers and the consequent loss of time.
Threat to Agricultural operations - Generally aquatic weeds are a constraint to
aquatic productivity and disrupt agricultural operations when they invade the paddy
fields.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT            64



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
5 WATER HYACINTH ITS CONTROL, REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL -
KNOWN PRICIPLES & OPTIONS
Prior to the consideration of various available options, it is necessary to know the
reasons for its growth in the project area. The main reason is the construction of
Thannirmukkom bund acting as a salinity barrier. The construction of a barrage at
Thannirmukkom about 10 km upstream of Vaikom, has barred the entry of saline sea
water to the backwaters and increased the growth of water hyacinth and other
aquatic floating weeds (also called algal weeds). The growth of this plant is most
prolific during the dry season when the water flow in the rivers is at its lowest and the
sluices of the barrage are closed to prevent saline water inflow.
The -various avai1ab1e- options for the management of water hyacinth are discussed
below:
Beneficial Use Based Options
Sufficient experimental data are now available on different aspects of growth, harvest
and utilization of water hyacinth.
Option 1 Cattle feed. Water hyacinth can be used as fodder for cattle, sheep, goat
and pigs. Use of this weed as a source and animal feed has already been proposed.
Water hyacinth is dewatered by pressing through a mill and is then fed to the
livestock on 25% level, in their feed on dry matter basis. Partially dewatered hyacinth
may be sun dried for hay making which preserves it for a longer period. It can then
be mixed with livestock feed as and when required. Small-scale industries could be
set up to process it into appropriate type of animal fodder and raw material to be
utilized in paper and board industry and compost making. However, water hyacinths
accumulate heavy metals and analysis of samples from the waterways indicate that
their heavy metal concentrations are too high for use as fodder.
In some countries like Indonesia, pigs are fed rations containing water hyacinth after
certain treatment like boiling and mixing with other feeds. In China, Pig farmers boil
chopped water hyacinth with vegetable wastes, rice barn, copra cake and salt to
make a suitable feed. In Malaysia, fresh water hyacinth is cooked with rice hulls and
fishmeal and mixed with copra meal as fodder for pigs, ducks and fish in ponds.
Similar practices are common in the Philippines and Thailand. Partially dewatered
Hyacinth may be sun dried for hay making which could then be preserved for a
longer period and be mixed with livestock feed as and when required.
This option is not feasible for the Project waterways both due to the contamination
with heavy metals and because the local people have no experience of such a use.
Option 2 Biogas. The dried water hyacinth when burned can be used for the
production of bio-gas. However, the cost of such processing is reportedly high.
Suitable designs of bio-gas plants to process water hyacinth are being developed. In
Kerala also, research has been carried at CWRDM, Kozhikode Kerala for biogas
generation from water hyacinth. The results reported were not satisfactory. In a
recent consultation at Alapuzha a local NGO 'Kuttanad Vikasana Samithy' operating
in Kuttanad is also experimenting on the use of Water hyacinth mixed with cow dung
for the production of biogas. The NGO is interested to popularise the method.
This option is also ruled out as this is still in an experimental stage.
Option 3 Packing materials. A glass industry locally tried to use it as a packing
material for glass. The material when reaches the destination is found to be
spreading the growth of water hyacinth in the destination area. Hence the company
later abandoned the idea.
This option is also not possible for the project waterways.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT           65



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                   ESAMP
Option 4 Floral arrangements. Since it is an ornamental plant it can be used for
flower arrangement also. As local people have in general developed a hatred of the
plant, this is also not an acceptable option for Kuttanad region and cannot be
considered.
Option 5 Pulp and Paper. Experimental results show that Water Hyacinth is a
promising material for the production of fibre and insulation boards. Water Hyacinth
has often been proposed as a source of pulp and paper and some successes have
indeed been reported. However, a major problem is the clinging of moisture to the
fibre and the difficulty in dewatering the pulp by the rollers used in paper making.
Recent reports from the Philippines indicate that cellulose fibres can be successfully
extracted from the stem of Water Hyacinth. Further blending of Water Hyacinth fibre
with the short fibre pulp from wood or bagasse can be used for production of quality
pulp and paper.
This option cannot be used, as the technology is not economically available to the
Kuttanad region.
Option 6 Water Quality Control. One of its applications is to use it for removal of
nutrients from wastewaters, removal of heavy metals, removal of organic compounds
etc. Water hyacinth is known for its affinity towards heavy metals. This is an
application for areas requiring one time solution where there will not be any further
pollution of water (e.g. waste water treatment). This is not applicable for natural
problems where the pollution is continuous. Therefore this option is also ruled out.
Option 7 Compost. Water hyacinth is a good fertilizer for the growth of coconut
palms. This is one of the most viable options along the project waterways as the
people are using it as compost in the coconut gardens. However, as the collection
and disposal is very expensive and usually labour intensive. This is not presently
being followed in the area. The project will convert all the collected water hyacinth
into compost for disposal in the Coconut gardens and padashekarams. The
necessary cost provision has been made in the project. (refer to Section 11.3).
Analysis of samples taken from the project waterways indicate that despite some
accumulation of heavy metals they re safe for use as compost.
6 OTHER ERADICATION METHODS
A number of studies have been carried out in several countries for eradication of this
weed by physical, mechanical, chemical and biological methods but no foolproof
method has so far been developed for its removal.
Option-1 Salinity Approach to Control Water Hyacinth Saline water destroys this
plant. In general, water hyacinth dies at a faster rate in higher salinities. When
salinity increases, the roots lose the capacity to absorb the nutrients from the water
and soil. Experiments have shown that a salinity of 2.4 ppt (parts per thousand) is
the upper limit for 100% survival of water hyacinth. This value is low compared with
the- tolerance limit of seven parts per thousand (ppt) for African payal (Salvinia
molesta).
Since increasing the salinity is not practical in Kuttanad area as it would threaten
agricultural production there, this is not a viable option for the project.
Option 2 Bio-remedial Method-1. Biological Control using Insects. This form of
biological control uses the natural enemies of water hyacinth such as insects, which
destroys the plant after consuming the leaf, stem etc. Plants die one after the other
and the insects gradually multiply. This method has been tested in many parts of the
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT           66



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
world (including Lake Victoria) and found to be successful in killing hyacinth but the
post application monitoring of the effects of using insects is still being carried out.
Until the success of this approach is established it is not be possible to accept this
application. Moreover Kerala, and in particular Kuttanad region, is already under
attack of several pests, virus diseases, etc. affecting coconut and other crops hence
the application of biological techniques needs thorough research prior to application.
More than 20 countries are experimenting on this method and the results are
variable. Before instituting a biological control programme in any country, it is first
necessary to document the occurrence of native natural enemies in that country. This
is essential to for making a wise choice of bio-control agents and strategies to follow.
The project still plans to experiment with bio-remedial methods as a long-term
solution and some cost provisions have been included.
Option 3 Bio remedial methods -2. A new technique is now used for clearing the
weeds and cleaning the water systems. An international Company "Clean Flow
International" has so far applied the technique to small water bodies and river
systems only. The application to big water bodies like the Vembanad Kayal and the
Canals need to be assessed on an experimental basis. The Clean Flow International
Inc., an American company, submitted a proposal to clean the Canals using inversion
and Oxygenation. It was indicated that this will revitalise the ecosystem and
channelise all unused nutrients into the ecosystem. The project also plans to
experiment with this method as a long term solution.
Option 4 Chemical and Mechanical Removal. It is uneconomical to use chemical
control. Chemical and mechanical methods are costly and often ineffective as
primary weapons against the weed.
Option 5 Mechanical and Manual Methods. These are the methods most widely
used but still the manual method is better than the mechanical methods.
Comparisons of mechanical versus manual methods have been undertaken are
described in Table 1.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT           67



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                           ESAMP
Table I Comparison of Mechanical and Manual methods for the Removal
of Water hyacinth
Mechanical Methods                           Manual Methods
Methods developed so far are found to be  Only effective method for removal of Water hyacinth without
unsatisfactory. Mechanical methods should  any harmful effects on environment.
follow the manual methods to complete the
process
Optimum design for machines to harvest and  Success to the extent of 90%. Manual removal of Water
dehydrate water hyacinth has not been  Hyacinths is the most satisfactory method. If the Hyacinth is
developed                             removed twice in a year the uncontrolled growth can be
largely stopped.
Clearing by harvesting machines has not Relatively better method for clearing water hyacinth
proved successful to prevent further growth
since the roots remain dormant for at least one
year and maintain their viability for several
years.
Much less labour required             Manual method is highly labour intensive and fits in well with
the plan and programmes of the Central and State
Govemments.
Minimum People participation required.  People participation required. This is preferred by local
Panchayats for the pilot project, as this will benefit the local
_                  ~~~~~~~~people.
Limited gainful employment            Significant gainful employment generated by this method
The project will largely depend on a combination of manual and mechanical methods
for removal of water hyacinth using motor boats, fish net etc
According to experts, manual removal of Water Hyacinths is the best way. If the
Hyacinth is removed twice a year then the uncontrolled growth can be prevented to a
certain extent. Clearing by manual method, though quite suitable from small and
shallow water areas, is not suited for medium and larger water spreads. The local
people prefer to remove these weeds first by machines and after that manually. The
mechanical method does not completely remove the roots, which grow again quickly.
If chemicals are sprayed to control growth this it have adverse effects on the
ecosystem.
7 QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF WATER HYACINTH
Water hyacinth multiplies rapidly in stagnant backwaters and at times occupies the
entire water surface from bank to bank stretching over distances as long as 2 to 4 km
along the canal course. An attempt has been made to assess its magnitude based
on the water spread area of the three feeder canals as worked out from the
hydrographic survey charts. The rough estimate is indicated in the Table 2.
TABLE 2 MAGNITUDE OF THE AREA AFFECTED BY WATER HYACINTH
Water Surface Area      Area Estimated To     Be
Canal                         (Thousand M2)          Infested (30% Of Total)
Alappuzha - Kottayam (AK)     1,820                    546
Alappuzha  -   Changanaserry  2,220                   666
(A C )_                        _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _   _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _   _
Kottayam - Vaikom (KV)         860                    258
Total                         4,900                   1,470
It is seen from the above that the surface area affected by water hyacinth during
certain seasons on the three canals is approximately 1,470,000 M2. The adverse
effects of such uncontrolled growth of water hyacinth on agriculture, fisheries,
transport and human health are significant and steps need to be taken for its
collection, disposal and prevention of further growth.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                    68



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
8 CONSULTATIONS
The following institutions were consulted while researching water hyacinth:
Scientist-in-charge, Department of Aquatic Biology & Fisheries, University of Kerala
and the State Planning Board, Kerala.
Senior Scientist of the Algology Department, Central Marine Fisheries Research
Institute (CMFRI), Kochi and
Head of the Aquatic Weed Department, Kerala Agricultural University (KAU),
Mannuthy (Thrissur).
Research to date has revealed that the adverse effects of chemical and biological
methods on the environment are more harmful than any benefits. According to the
Kerala Agricultural University, 8 ml of Glyphosate manufactured as 'Round Up' or
'Glycel' mixed with one liter of water sprayed on the foliage is most effective for
eradicating water hyacinth. However, its effects on the ecosystem are not known.
An expert from the Botany Department, University of Kerala stated that these
chemicals are poisonous for the flora and fauna and are definitely not recommended.
The Scientists in the CMFRI had experimented with the mechanical methods by
developing a harvesting machine but found it unsatisfactory. According to them the
machines did not completely remove the roots, which germinated rapidly again.
The only effective method presently available for control of water hyacinth without
causing any harmful effects on the environment is the physical removal of weeds with
manual operation. Experiments have shown that the manual removal of this weed
yielded success to the extent of 90%. An expert from the Botany Department,
University of Kerala confirmed that manual removal of hyacinths is the best way for
eradication and control. Water hyacinth being aquatic is easy to collect by manual
labour. Its disposal is, however, more difficult due to its high water content. Most
difficult of all is the prevention of further growth since the roots remain dormant for at
least one year and maintain their viability for several years.
9 PROJECT REMOVAL OPTIONS
The only effective method presently available in front of the project is for control of
water hyacinth without any negative impacts on the environment is the manual
removal of weeds. The process involves:
Identification of locations to be cleaned
Collection from the waterways
Labor requirements for making the collection possible
Disposal mechanism
Disposal site
The Irrigation Department (ID), Government of Kerala has carried out experiments for
removing water hyacinth from a small area of 600 m2 using country boats, labour and
equipment like bamboos, buckets, rope, shovels and sharp knives. Eight persons
were deployed on each boat for one-day cutting water hyacinth, pulling out roots,
collecting and loading into boats, conveying, unloading and depositing at pre-
selected sites. The cost of this operation was Rs. 3.05 / m as shown below.
Cost Estimate for Water Hyacinth Removal
Two boats with two boatmen IlIl class @ Rs. 190/Cash  -     Rs.
380.00
Workers for cutting, collecting, loading to
Vallam and unloading @ Rs. 91/Cash                    -     Rs.
1274.00
LS. hire charges of bucket, coir and other accessories  -   Rs.
10.00
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT          69



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                  ESAMP
Rs. 1664 00
Add: 10% Profit                                        Rs. 165.40
Total                                                  Rs. 1829.40
Cost / m2                                              Rs. To.5-m'
Area Cleaned = 600m2 /day
9.1 REMOVAL OF WATER HYACINTH FROM PROJECT WATERWAYS
Based on the above estimate, an estimate for the removal of water hyacinth from the
project waterways have been carried out as shown in Table 3. An estimated total of
Rs 45 Lakhs (Rs 4.5 Million) is required for the operation.
TABLE 3 COST ESTIMATE FOR REMOVAL OF WATER HYACINTH FROM
PROJECT WATERWAYS
Name Of Canal                 Area To Be Cleared (M2)  Estimated    Cost
Alappuzha - Kottayam          546,000                 16,65,300
Alappuzha - Changanaserry     666,000                 20,31,300
Kottayam - Vaikom             258,000                 7,86,900
Total                         1,470,000               44,83,500
Say Rs. 45.0 Lakhs (Rs. 4,500,000)
9.2 RECOMMENDED REMOVAL METHOD
It is proposed to control water hyacinth by the manual method of removal tested by
Irrigation Department (ID). The operation is highly labour intensive and fits in well
with the plans and programmes of the Central and State Governments. This will also
give some employment to the local people. The work will create 4 man-days of work
per 600 Sq.m area, about 9000 man-days in total. This is equivalent to the
employment for 90 people for 100 days in the early stages of the project. During the
operational stage, additional employment generation would be of the order of 10
percent of the initial man-days.
Although quite suitable for small areas, it may present organizational problems for
initial removal of hyacinth estimated to spread over a large area of 1,470,000 M2. It
will be necessary to enlist the cooperation of local people through villages and
panchayats to undertake this task. Local people are the principal beneficiaries and
have shown interest in involving themselves in community management programmes
for removing water hyacinth and other aquatic weeds manually to ensure cleaner
drinking water for themselves and to mitigate health hazards due to mosquitoes
breeding in hyacinth-affected stagnant water. People will gladly participate in such a
'clean up' operation on the waterways and will be gainfully employed through their
panchayats (local bodies), which in turn would be funded by the State for this
purpose. The fund can also be combined with ongoing Central Government
employment schemes.
The construction contractor will be responsible for organising and paying for this
activity and for leaving the project waterways free of water hyacinths on completion
of its contract.
10 WATER HYACINTH DISPOSAL
The project has consulted officers of the Irrigation Department at Kottayam and
Alappuzha regarding the possibilities of disposal of water hyacinth. The department
authorities opined that the Contractor would be able to sell the water hyacinths
profitably to the Farmers. The water hyacinth can be used as a compost in the
coconut gardens and plantations The entire section of people (100 percent)
consulted during the field visit was ready to accept the materials. The report of the
field visit is attached as Annexure-1 of Appendix-7.3 in Dredge Disposal Plan,
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT           70



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                 ESAMP
Appendix R. Further the team requested a cross section of the people to submit their
consent in writing. All of them agreed to receive the material. Additional cost
provisions have been included in BOQ bill No. 10 for compost making.
The construction contractor will be responsible for collecting and composting water
hyacinth. It can then dispose of the compost by selling it or distributing it free to local
people, or he may mix it into the dredge materials in the confined disposal facilities
(CDF) making them richer for use as agricultural soil when the pesticides they
contain have broken down. It is suggested that it places the hyacinths in windrows
on land rented near the CDFs composts them. This will require turning them as well
as watering during the dry seasons.
A number of Coconut gardens and plantations are seen in the area. Water hyacinth
is a good fertilizer for the growth of coconut palms. Applying the water hyacinth to
coconut gardens will positively benefit the gardens. This can now be undertaken as
the entire Kuttanad community is willing to accept water hyacinth compost and to
dispose of it in their coconut gardens or on plots. This may be used as a method of
disposal after composting.
11 MAINTENANCE OF THE WATERWAYS FREE OF WATER
HYACINTHS
In order to minimize the re-growth after the initial manual clean up operation, the
activity should be repeated in every six months. This would control the re-growth of
water hyacinth to a large extent year after year and is recommended as part of the
regular waterway maintenance and conservancy measure. Collection and disposal
will be made in accordance with the methods described above. The owner will be
responsible for the maintenance of the waterwavs.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT          71



Krc ala Slate I 1,  I, ,,, .  I  :,,uit Pilol P( ( e.          LSANIXP
APPENDIX M
Water Hyacinth Sampling Testing and Reporting for
IWT Pilot project
Water Hyacinth-An Introduction
Among all aquatic weeds water hyacinth is the most populated and well
spread all over the world. It is an attractive free floating aquatic plant with
beautiful lilac violet flowers and grows luxuriantly; forms dense population
within a short time period and has resulted into a most successful colonizers
in the plant world. The primary attribute of water hyacinth is its ability to grow
under a wide range of nutrient and environmental conditions. The plant is able
to develop at an astounding rate, effectively out-competing other native
aquatics. This rapid growth can cause an imposing amount of biomass. The
level of biomass accumulation will determine its nuisance value and the
impact on water quality Excessive infestation by this weed can severely
constrain human activities, affecting accesses to water, navigation, irrigation
and fisheries. Water hyacinth is a member of the pickerelweed family
(Pontederiaceae). The scientific name is written as Eichornia crassipes. A
survey by Sharma and Haque (1980) says the weed is causing concern in 98
out of 246 districts surveyed in India.
Water Hyacinth is now widely distributed all over India in rivers, lakes,
ponds waste ditch. marshy places etc. Water hyacinth was introduced in India
as an'ornamental" plant in the beginning of 20 " century and is now found all
over the country.
Water Hyacinth grows abundantly in polluted or nutrient enriched
water. During warm seasons plant grows very rapidly and covers 15 % more
surface area every day (Melhotra et al 1982) According to Balasooriya et al
(1983) luxuriant growth of water hyacinth plant occurs when temperature
ranges between 26-35''C and pH between 6 0 to 7 0 During winter season it is
L_i _3~y  _~riin _ _ _  _         . 



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project             ESAMP
found that water hyacinth is infested by the fungus A/ternaria, which changes
the leaf colour to brown and during this season growth rate is very low. More
acidic pH (4.4 to 5.9) and more alkaline pH (7.3 to 7.9) restrict the growth of
water hyacinth. Water hyacinth grows rapidly in the presence of nitrogen and
phosphorous (Wolverton, 1979). The plant can tolerate 1000 mg/L salinity for
indefinite period while a level of 2000 mg/L can prove to be lethal in 30 days.
In another study it was observed that the plants tolerate salinity upto 0.25
percent though the growth is adversely affected.
Preamble
Louis Berger Group is doing a consultancy project on the Inland Water
Transport component of the Kerala State Transport Project. As part of the
project, M/S Louis Berger Group, Inc. as per the Lr No KSTP\2001\12\01 dtd
03 Dec.2001 has requested CWRDM to undertake a consultancy work on the
sampling, testing and reporting of six heavy metals in water hyacinth along
selected sampling stations through IWT Canals.
Experimental
Based on the observations of the previous study on the "Water and
Sediment Sampling and Analysis for Heavy Metals and Pesticides Along the
IWT canal", 12 sampling locations along the Alappuzha-Changanaseery and
Alappuzha-Kottayam stretch were fixed. The details of the sampling stations
are indicated in fig.1. The sampling of the water hyacinth plants were done as
per the procedure reported by Market and Harderlie(1996). The analysis of
the heavy metals in plant tissues were done as per the procedure reported by
Jon C.Van Loon (1985) and Tandon (1993)
The samples were collected on 22nd and 23rd January 2002 from left
and right side of each sampling station along the water way. The water
hyacinth plants were collected in polyethylene covers, sealed and brought to
the laboratory. The samples were rinsed and washed with distilled water to
remove the contaminants. The plants materials were spread out in sun for
drying. Further drying was done by keeping the materials in an oven
maintaining the temperature less than 800C. Plant materials were then ground
using a mechanical grinder to pass through 30-40 mesh sieve. The dried
materials were kept in pre-cleaned bottles and were dried again before
weighing for each analysis. One gram of the ground plant material is placed in
100 ml volumetric flask. To this 10 ml of acid mixture (9:4 mixture of nitric acid
and perchloric acid) was added and the content of the flask was mixed by
sw1rling. The flask is placed on low heat hot plate in a digestion chamber.
Then the flask is heated at higher temperature until the production of red NO2
fumes ceased .The contents are further evaporated until the volume is
reduced to about 3 to 5 ml. The completion of the digestion is confirmed when
the liquid become colourless After cooling of the flask, 20 ml of distilled water
was added to the flask and made upto 100 ml. The solution was filtered
through a Whatman No.1 filter paper. This solution was used for the detection
of heavy metals.
The analysis of the heavy metals were done using the following equipment:
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT         73



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project             ESAMP
1. Varian (Australia) Model No AA 20
2. Elico (India) Model No SL 173 AAS
3. Hitachi (Japan) UV-Visible Spectrophotometer
4. E.Merck SQ 118 Photometer
Quality assurance was done using intra laboratory and inter laboratory
analysis, checking and comparison. Analysis was carried out using
photometric and AAS techniques to compare the results.
Results and discussion
The samples were analysed for heavy metals like iron, manganese,
copper chromium. zinc and lead. The results of the analysis are indicated
in table 1.
Of the heavy metals analyzed, concentration of lead is in the range 10-
13.5 ppm.. Zinc is determined to be comparatively less at Changanaseery
and Chepankul, while the concentration is around 30 ppm or more along
the Alappuzha-Vaikom and Kavalam route. The maximum concentration of
chromium detected is 7.6 ppm at Kavalam. The results almost correlate
with our earlier report (CWRDM, 2000)
Significant quantities of heavy metals may present in domestic
wastewaters and sewage. This use of detergents adds chromium, cobalt
etc to the waste waters. Sewage sludge if discharged into the waters may
be a significant source of copper, zinc and lead. Run off from urban areas
during the rainy seasons is rich in certain heavy metals such as copper,
chromium. Zinc and lead. The relative quantities depend on the factors
such as road traffic conditions, land use and city planning. Lead from
automobiles is released into atmosphere, which later gets deposited at
surface and finds its way into run off. Water hyacinth plants has the ability
to absorb and concentrate heavy metals (Wolverton and Mc Donald 1978
and O'Keeffee etal 1984)
High Concentration of Iron and Manganese in Water Hyacinth Plants
Low lying west coast areas of Kerala are the major rice growing tracts
under wetland ecosystem. Based on the specific features of the location,
colour of the soil, system of paddy cultivation and associated soil
problems, these soils are named as Kari, Karapadam, Kayal, Pokkali, Kole
and Kaipad soils (Premachandran et al 2002)
Wetland rice soils are reported to have high concentration of iron and
manganese. Iron is normally associated with acid soils with a pH less than
5.0 when dry. Presence of iron and is identified in acid sulphate soils, acid
sandy soils and in some cases in laterite soils. Iron is found in both young
acid sulphate and deeply developed acid sulphate soils. The young acid
sulphate soils have a sulphuric horizon with a pH less than 3.5 with yellow
jarosite mottles starting within 50 cm from the surface. When these soils
have a high organic matter content in the surface soil, the Fe 2
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT         74



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project              ESAMP
concentration may become several thousand mg/litre in the soil solutions.
Iron concentration tends to increase with salinity.
When a soil is submerged, anaerobic microorganisms start the
reduction of soil components with a high oxidation state such as MnO2 and
NO3-. Once these are depleted, insoluble Fe+2 compounds present in the
form of Fe (OH)2 are reduced to soluble Fe+2 compounds (Premachandran
et al 2002) During this process the organic matter is oxidized acid id
consumed and the pH rises. In most soils the level of Fe+2 increases upon
flooding and reaches a peak after 2-5 weeks. Concentration above 300-
500 mg/l occurs only in soils with an aerobic pH below 5. In such acid acid
soil, the height of the peak tends to increase with concentration of
reducible Fe" and organic matter content. In young acid sulphate soils,
particularly high levels of Fe&2 tend to develop and often persist for several
months. Manganese has the similar properties like iron.
Run of from the agricultural fields during rainy season and the practice
of pumping out the flooded water from rice fields to the nearby canals are
contributing to the high concentration of iron and manganese. Water
Hyacinth plants can absorb iron and manganese during the process.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT          75



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project              ESAMP
References
Balasooriya I, PJ Paulraj S I Abaygunawardena and C Nanayakkara (1983)
Biology of Water Hyacinth:Physico-chemical Properties of the Water
Supporting "Eichomia crassipes "Int.Conf on Water Hyacinth Feb 7-11
Bernd Market and Brooks Haderlie (1996) Instrumental Element and Multi-
element Analysis of Plant Samples-Methods and Applications, John Wiley &
sons New York, p117.
CWRDM Report (2000), Water and Sediment Sampling and Analysis for
Pesticides and Heavy Metals, submitted to Louis Berger Group Inc.
Jon C.Van Loon (1985) Selected Methods of Trace Metal Analysis -Biological
and Environmental Samples, John Wiley and Sons, New York.
Melhotra R and APSA Aowal (1982) Water hyacinth. An approach solution to
water pollution problems J.lns of Engg.62, 43-46.
O'Keeffee, Hary, D H Anjane, J K and Rao R (1984) Cadmium uptake by
water hyacinth: Effects of solution factors, Environmental Pollution 34,147.
Premachandran P N Kamalakshan Kokkal and Subramonia Aiyer(2002)
Toxicities Associated with Wetland Soils, Wetland Conservation and
Management in Kerala 14th Kerala Science Congress Proc.of the theme topic
Sharma, S and Haquue A (1980). Water Hyacinth to fight Water Pollution,
Science Reporter December 1980.
Tandon HLS (1993) Methods of Analysis of Soils, Plants, Waters and
Fertilisers Fertiliser Development and Consultation Organisation, New Delhi.
Wolverton, B C    and R C McDonald     (1979) Upgrading Facultative
Wastewater Lagoons with Aquatic Plants J.Water Bull Cont. Feb 51, 305-313.
Wolverton, B.C and Mc Donald, R C (1978). Bioaccumulation and detection of
trace levels of cadmium in aquatic system by Eichomia crassipes. Environ
Helath.Perspectives 27:161-164
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT          76



0)      0                                   N
C',~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
w                 Co  c~~~~~ CLI)  C z  )
0      0~~~~L  0 r
-J      (D~~~~N
CI)  0)    L
C      ~~~~Cv)  CO)  C(  ',q-  CN,
cuE
3..    cJ    N   N- 
m         C)0 
C~)    0D
to Lo)  0   COC~
(N  0.
04
0D     f     oo   CD9 0C
1      C'~~~~~) N-  -   Co  C)-
4-      -~~~~Y  -    --
m         CL)     0)
)       Of CDZ   Co   cc3)L) o
o            CD ~ 
C         LI)~~~~C  0O
0           Co 0     C') 0
CI)
CD         C     o
(D      C)  ~ ~ ,- CY)          -
0 ~~~iCY) -   N co) I
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
00  0~~~~~~~
0   5Co4       -0        00                       C<
Cd~~~~~~~~~
Cu
co C)~~~~~~~~~~ClC
C                                                0) ~~~~~~~~~~~D  )C/
0)             I-)       Cl)  _
cu                       CuE
C')  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~'  E  ~~~~~~~~0  o 4  U a.)
Cu        o  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0  V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o  . 
C:                                              t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
0  cu  o  c  C  CU~~ -~  o 
a,                           0  ai                 0~~~0 
L E       U                * 0  0 6 0 6



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                                ESAMP
C-)
I-
0
0
>  )~~~
In)
0
LouisBergr lnernatonaUSheldia  ssocites!GESICT                   7



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
APPENDIX N
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT IN THE PROJECT AREA
Canal embankments, about 60-80 cm above the canal water level, protect the
reclaimed land areas in the Kuttanad, known as 'Blocks'. These are of 1.1-1.5 m width
after protected with stone pitching. The side protection is old and severely damaged
due to inadequate maintenance.
The Irrigation Department in Alappuzha, State Water Transport Department (SWTD),
KSINC and Cochin Port Trust maintain records on the inland craft so far as they
concern the vessels calling at Cochin port. The information on the existing inland
vessels collected from the above organizations is summarized in Exhibit 4.33.
There is no organization responsible for maintaining the data on private sector
Inland Water Transport operations, related to the number of boats, passengers or
cargo movements.
EXHIBIT-4.33: INLAND WATER TRANSPORT IN THE PROJECT AREA
Approx.
Cargo Vessels      Ksinc   Swtd       Private     Total    Capacity,(Ton
nes/Pass)
Ferries                 2        0          3          5          300
Self propelled  barges  7        0          4         11          2640
(liquid)
Self Propelled  barges  4        0         10         14          3100
Lcar  o__                                             __ __
Small mechanized boats           0         41         41           30
Organized      cargo    13       0         58         71          6070
Sector, Total
Passenger Boats
More    than    100     9        50         0         59          6500
passengers capacity                                      _
Less    than     100    3        6         133        142         4250
passengers capacity  -I -
House boats              -       -         100        100         650
Total                   12       56        233        301        11400
The operations of the inland vessels summarized above, registered by the Government
Authorities, constitute the organized Inland Water Transport sector. Most of the Inland
craft in operation would be able to ply on the proposed project canals after the
proposed improvement works. The estimated transport capacity of the existing Inland
fleet based on average transport distances of 30 km, comparable with the length of the
project canals, is calculated as shown in exhibit 4.34.
Louis Berger lnternational/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ [CT                79



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
EXHIBIT 4 34: ESTIMATED TRANSPORT CAPACITY OF THE EXISTING INLAND FLEET
Estimated Capacity       Passenger Boats (Tonnes)  Cargo Boats (Tonnes)
Performance norms
Average lead km                          30                      30
Days in the year                        300                      300
Hours in a day                           14                      16
Speed ( km/h)                            12                      12
Trips per day                             4                       2
Capacity utilization                    75%                     75%
Capacity utilization, liquid tankers                            50%
Passenger Transport Capacity
More than 100 passengers              7,800,000
Less than 100 passengers              5,100,000
House boats, 1 cruise per day          100,000
Total  Passengers  (Excluding         13,000,000
Ferries)
Cargo Capacity
Liquid Bulk                                                    800,000
Dry Cargo                                                     1,400,000
Total                                                         2,200,000
PRESENT TRAFFIC
The base year Inland Water Transport traffic estimation is based on detailed
discussions with the Government Agencies, industrial corporations, transport
companies, Chambers of Commerce, oil companies, Cochin Port Trust and the officials
of the concerned Government Departments. These were held in order to ascertain the
level and pattern of the existing and potential Inland Water Transport traffic. The results
of the discussions are summarized in Exhibit 4.35.
EXHIBIT 4.35 ESTIMATED INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PASSENGER AND CARGO
FLOWS IN ALAPPUZHA, KOTTAYAM AND ERNAKULAM DISTRICTS
('000
PASSENGERSrTONNES)
Il.No.  Particulars      Swtd (*) Ksinc     Private (**) Total  Project Area
1     Short haul          10 100    9 900         n a. 20,000         n.a.
operations          1          ,                   ,
2     Passenger traffic   13,000        -         n.a  13,000        8,400
Total passengers    23,100     9,900         n.a. 33,000       8,400
3     Liquid cargo (**)        -      180        1,100   1280           0
4     Dry Cargo (*.*)                 310         350     660          80
Total Cargo                     490         1450   1940          80
(*)  -       Statistics obtained from the agencies
(**)         Records on the private passenger operations are not available
(***)        Based on interviews with the private operators
At present, the Inland Water Transport cargo traffic is concentrated on the waterways
between the Port of Cochin and the heavy industries located in the waterfront areas at
Udyogamandal and Champakkara canals. Beyond this area, there is only one regular
cargo transport service for oil products from Ernakulam to the inland oil terminal in
Kollam. The average load of the goods transported is relatively short for the waterways
in general owing to the specific nature of the major commodity flows.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 80



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                    ESAMP
Inland water passenger services are used in several locations in the project area.
The number of passengers recorded in the district stations is shown in Exhibit 4.36.
EXHIBIT 4.36 PASSENGERS RECORDED IN DISTRICT STATIONS
-___________  ._______________ _  .('000  passengers)
SI.No         District        1998-99 (Estimates)
1      <annur                       450
2      Ernakulam                   19,100
3      blappuzha                   9,300
4       ottayam                    4,400
5       ollam                       560
Total                      33,810
Source: Government agencies, private operators
PRESENT PASSENGER TRAFFIC
The passenger transport services in the project area are provided by both the public
organization SWTD and private passenger launch and houseboat owners. The State
Water Transport Department provides scheduled services on the A-C and A-K routes
and the non-scheduled services by the private operators. The scheduled services are
largely used for social communication of the local people while the private services
target the tourist market, both local and foreign. In view of the number of passengers,
the contribution of the social communication is 99% and the share of tourists is less
than 1% of the total organized passenger traffic.
The size of the informal sector, cross-canal and intra/inter-village movement of
passengers by country boats is unknown and extremely difficult to estimate.  This
traffic has no significant impact on the feasibility of the project although the project
would improve the quality of life.
Being the only scheduled operator on the project canals the transport performance of
the SWTD fleet can be regarded as the base year traffic on the A-K and A-C routes.
The number of passengers carried monthly on these routes is shown in Exhibit 4.37
and 4.38.
EXHIBIT 4.37 MONTHLY PASSENGER TRAFFIC ON THE PROJECT ROUTES FROM JULY
1997 TO JUNE 1998 (IN THOUSANDS)
300
250 -                                                                  AC
200                                                                   M CA
150                                                                   OAK
100                                                                   0 KA
50-
0-
July    1997 Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  JaJune998Mr 
.      ~~1997       |1998
Source SWTD, Ticket sales
According to this sample data, the period from February to June seems to be the lowest
season with the peak period starting again in July. This has been verified also by other
sample studies made by the Consultant.
EXHIBIT 4.38 TOTAL PASSENGER TRAFFIC ON THE PROJECT ROUTES
IN 1996-1998 (IN THOUSANDS)
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                81



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                    ESAMP
3000
2500 -
2000 -1996
1500 -199_
1000
500
AC           CA            AK           KA
AC = Alappuzha to Changanaserry, AK = Alappuzha to Kottayam
KA = Kottayam to Alappuzha, CA = Changanaserry to Alappuzha
These exhibits represent sample data collected by the Irrigation Department and based
on the operational data of SWTD, the only operator maintaining scheduled services on
these routes. Their total passenger fleet consists of 56 vessels each with a capacity of
100-150 passengers.
*  The Kottayam - Vaikom stretch has no regular transport service at present.
The volume of the traffic during the three years period shows a declining trend, which
can be explained by two obvious reasons.
• Firstly, the improved road network has attracted passengers from waterways and
* Secondly, the decreasing need of agricultural workers in the area, which is partly
due to the deterioration of the canal embankments, decreasing the crops and
cultivated area and crop yields.
As shown in Exhibit 4.38, Alappuzha - Kottayam/Changanaserry lines carried more
than eight million passengers. According to the District Tourist Promotion Council,
Alappuzha, the share of tourists was negligible, 45,000 travelled to Kollam, Kottayam
and Changanaserry and approximately 10,000 used the houseboat services. According
to the 1/1/1983 Statistics, there are 36 schedules for SWTD along Alappuzha-
Changanaserry canal. Most of theses schedules do not operate from terminal to
terminal. The statistics for the Alappuzha- Kottayam available for the same period is 29
schedules.
CARGO TRAFFIC
The freight market in the PIA is divided into two distinct sectors:
Intra-district haulage (essentially short haul and cross-river ferrying): The intra-district
traffic consists of distribution of various commodities from Alappuzha and Kottayam to
the destinations on the canal routes mainly by traditional non-mechanized country
boats and short distance haulage between the villages without road access.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                82



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
Inter-district operations: The second market sector is the seasonal transport of the
agricultural products, food and non-food items and fertilizers. The distance of this
haulage is normally half of the canal length, equal to 15-20 km. These commodities are
carried by traditional country boats or by trucks and 3 wheelers if the road connection is
available.
The cargo capacity is presently utilized in Ernakulam district carrying raw materials from
Cochin port to the fertilizer and zinc factories, while the majority of the passenger boats
are employed in regular traffic on the project routes, tourist services and Mohamma-
Kumarakom route.   Based on the interviews and other material collected by the
Consultant the estimated base year traffic on the project feeder canals is shown in
Exhibit 4.39.
EXHIBIT 4.39 ESTIMATED BASE YEAR TRAFFIC ON THE PROJECT
DISTRICT ROADS, AC, AND AK FEEDER CANALS
(Tonnes)
COMMODITY               TOTAL QUANTITY   BY ROAD  BY WATERWAY
Paddy                                        60,000     55,000        5,000
Coconuts, coir                               20,000     10,000       10,000
Fertilizers                                  15,000     12,000        3,000
Bricks, cement, construction materials      100,000    85,000        15,000
Rubber                                       20,000     10,000       10,000
Sand, lime shells                            50,000     25,000       25,000
Paper                                        15,000     15,000            0
POL                                         300,000    300,000            0
Miscellaneous                                 2 ,000                  2 2,000
TOTAL                                       582,000    512,000       70,000
Sources: Road sector Surveys, Industry, Transport companies, Chamber of Commerce
The existing traffic shown in the last column is a summary of the transport data
obtained from the industries, Chambers of Commerce, and the Inland Water Transport
companies as well as from the road sector volume estimates. The commodity
categories include only the major items that may be potentially divertible from the roads
to the waterways. The present transport pattern in the larger PIA is relatively ill defined.
The bulk items shown in the above Exhibit are transported mainly by road to
Alappuzha, Kottayam and Changanaserry where they are delivered directly to the
customers or to the wholesalers' warehouses.
The feeder canals are utilized for the distribution of the different commodities to the
residents along the canals carried out by country craft, which traffic has remained
largely unorganised. No significant cargo flows were found in the organized sector on
the routes among the towns of Alappuzha, Kottayam, Changanaserry and Vaikom.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                83



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
APPENDIX 0
MINUTES OF SCOPING WORKSHOP
KERALA STATE INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PILOT PROJECT
1) Scoping Workshop - 1, Thiruvananthapuram, 18'th January, 2000
An environmental and social scoping workshop was held on the 181h January in the PWD
Rest House at Thycaud, Thiruvananthapuram. This was the first of the three that were
proposed to help identify priority environmental and social issues, covering the districts of
Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Parthanamthitta. Mr. Karrappuni, Chief Engineer, Roads
and Bridges Department of the PWD opened the workshop with a keynote address.  Mr.
David Wood, Team Leader of the PCC, made a welcome speech. Mr. Dushyantha Kumar,
Director of the Project Implementation Unit, was Chairman.
Apart from the organizers, the various NGOs and officials who attended the workshop
included:
1. K. Viswanath, Director, Mitraniketan.
2. M.P. Muraleedharan, Geological Survey of India, Kerala Unit, Trivandrum.
3. K.M. Ravindran, Special Officer, Roads and Bridges Development Corporation.
4. Shiju Cherian, Kodumon Grama Vikasana Samithy, Pathanamthitta.
5. C. Christu Das, Director, The Dale View, Punalal P.O., Poovachal (via), Trivandrum.
6. Dr. S.P. Thampi, Director, Marine Archeology, Govt. of Kerala, Trivandrum.
7. K. Thomas Paulose, Vice President, Friends of the Trees, Trivandrum.
8. S. Chandra Mohan, Asst. Director, Kerala State Land Use Board, Trivandrum.
9. Sudheer Babu, S., Environmental Engineer, Kerala State Pollution Control Board.
10. Abdul Samad, Specialist (Soil Conservation), Kerala State Land Use Board.
11. C.K. Karunakaran, Secretary, Friends of Trees, Trivandrum.
12. Anil Kumar, P.V., Rajiv Gandhi Cultural Study Centre, Venganoor, Trivandrum.
13. Edwin George, The Salvation Army, Kawdiar, Trivandrum.
14. Mr. Sunder, Project Coordinator, Rajiv Gandhi Centre, Tyrivandrum.
15. Tommy Cyriac, Consultant, Finance Department, Govt. of Kerala.
16. Jacob Mohan George, Asst. Executive Engineer, Trivandrum.
17. Ms Sonia Kapoor, Environmental Specialist, The World Bank, New Delhi.
Mr. Karrappuni mentioned that the aim of the project is to rehabilitate and improve the
existing roads with minimal acquisition of land and minimum dislocation of people and
maximum benefit to the population at large. The objective of the workshop is to gather
inputs and concerns from the public, NGOs, and experts for the scoping of the
environmental and social aspects of the project.
After the welcome address, the various experts addressed the audience with their assigned
topics for discussion.  Mr. Andrew Blelloch, Environmental Specialist, talked on the
environmental and social assessment process for the highways. Bill Cummings, Social
Impact Specialist, talked on the environmental and social assessment process for the
waterways.  Mr. Sundara Rajan, Environment Impact Coordinator, talked on the
environmental concerns in highways and waterways, and Dr. Biswanath Debnath, Social
Impact Coordinator, discussed social concerns relating to highways.
The participants joined the discussion with their presentation. Mr M.P. Muralidharan of the
Geological Survey of India talked about the physical environment. He mentioned that the
Louis Berger international/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 84



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                   ESAMP
road alignments and widths in Kerala are unscientific, which may be made better with the
use of satellite survey information.  Moreover, water logging on roads recurs during
monsoons due to inappropriate design for the soil conditions. He suggested that the design
of north-south roads and the east-west roads should be different.
Mr. Abdul Samad of the Kerala Land Use Board mentioned that there is a land degradation
problem in Kerala due to the varying terrain and the fact that approximately 40% of the
landmass of the State is prone to landslides and slope instability. He also mentioned that
consideration should be given to a proper water management system, minimizing
disturbance to the paddy fields, and the biotic issues during the execution of the project.
Mr. Sudheer Babu of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board mentioned that the PWD has
to submit an application for conducting public hearing with the prescribed fees and 20 copies
of the executive summary of the project for clearance by the KSPCB. The KSPCB will
convene a panel for conducting the public hearing and subsequently make
recommendations to the MoEF.
Mr. Christu Das, Director of Dale View, mentioned the apparent absence of coordination
between the PWD and other line departments. He criticized the inadequate traffic signals,
signboards and milestones and the frequent digging within the highways.
Mr. Ravindran, Special Officer, Roads and Bridges, described the difficulties involved in land
acquisition for the roads. He mentioned that the effective width of the roads is reduced due
to inadequate provisions for the pedestrians using the roads and also due to the existence of
the utility poles.
Mr. Thomas Paulos, Vice President of Friends of the Tress and a retired town planner, also
mentioned the difficulties involved in land acquisition for the roads. He mentioned that strict
laws and regulations should facilitate land acquisition.
Mr. Karunakaran, Secretary of Friends of Trees mentioned that a committee should examine
the environmental aspects and ensure that the guidelines are being followed. He maintained
that the biological aspects of environment should be given more importance in this project.
Various mitigation measures and safeguards should be ensured to protect the bio-diversity
of the State.
Dr. Thampi of the Dept. of Archeology dealt at length with the importance of heritage tourism
and the need for creating a cultural awareness in Kerala.
Ms Sonia Kapoor of the World Bank discussed the importance of the NGO involvement in
this project and explained that the mitigation measures for various impacts can be
formulated by conducting talks with stakeholders like NGOs, local people, etc. She also
mentioned that the environmental and social impacts cannot be solved by the PWD alone.
Hence, we should be realistic and pragmatic in dealing with these problems.
Mr. Anil Kumar of the Rajiv Gandhi Cultural Study Centre urged that coordination of various
agencies should facilitate the rehabilitation programme, undertaking awareness classes for
the pedestrians, and creating road management committees at the panchayat level.
The workshop closed with thanks to the various attendees by the Chairman.
2) Minutes of Scoping Workshop - 2 Ernakulam, 25'h January, 2000
An environmental and social scoping workshop was held on the 251h January in Hotel
Renaissance, Ernakulam. This was the second of the three that were proposed to help
identify priority environmental and social issues, covering the districts of Alappuzha,
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT               85



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, ldukki, and Palakkad. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
Irrigation Department and PCC decided to cover the entire Waterways issues at this
scooping workshop. The Thiruvanathapuram workshop also discussed the waterways issue
at a low profile. Er. E.K. Govindan, Superintending Engineer, Roads and Bridges
Department of the PWD Central Circle, Aluva, opened the workshop with a keynote address.
Mr. Andrew Blelloch, Environmental Specialist in the PCC, made a welcome speech. Mr.
Dushantha Kumar, Director of the Project Implementation Unit, was Chairman.
Apart from the organizers, the various NGOs and officials who attended the workshop
included:
I. Mr. K. K. Abdul Gaffoor, KSINC, Kochi.
2. Dr. Shankar from the Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi, Thrissur.
3. Mr. Ravindran from the Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad, Thrissur.
4. Dr. Komala Valli Amma, SE, ID , Govt. of Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram.
5. Dr. V.N.Sivasankara Pillai ,Cochin University for Science and Technology, Kochi.
6. Mr. Raji G. Nair, Assistant Executive Engineer, Irrigation Department, Kollam.
7. Mr. Joseph J. Karoor from the Friends of Periyar, Thekkady.
Er. Govindan mentioned that the traffic volume in Kerala is annually increasing at the rate of
10-11% and discussed the vital role of the road network in the state's development activities.
He also mentioned that the aim of the project is to rehabilitate and improve the existing
roads with minimal acquisition of land and minimum dislocation of people and maximum
benefit to the population at large and the resettlement and rehabilitation objectives would be
followed up with the panchayat level discussions.
After the keynote and welcome address, the various experts addressed the audience with
their assigned topics for discussion. Mr. Andrew Blelloch, Environmental Specialist, talked
on the environmental and social assessment process for the highways.  Mr Willium
Cummings, Social Impact Specialist, talked on the environmental and social assessment
process for the waterways. Mr. Sundara Rajan, Environment Impact Coordinator, talked on
the environmental concerns in highways and waterways, and Dr. Biswanath Debnath, Social
Impact Coordinator, discussed social concerns relating to highways.
The participants joined the discussion with their presentation. Dr. Komala Vally Amma
briefly described the Kerala waterways and made a comparison of the relative maintenance
costs of the railways, the highways and the waterways and mentioned the cost per km in the
waterways is Rs. 1000/- while it is Rs. 5000/- in the two other modes.
Mr. K K. Abdul Gafoor of KSINCO described at length certain waterways related facts of the
cargo transport in Kerala. He mentioned that IWT carry both passengers and cargo.
Industrial raw materials are being transported by IWT in Ernakulam area. Many parts of
Inland Waterways have insufficient infrastructure facilities. Another problem faced by IWT
sector in Kerala is insufficient loading and unloading, facilities. Only 75% capacity of the
boats and barges is being used. Optimum size capacity of the barge is 500 MT but now only
150 MT vessels operate. The width and depth of Inland Water ways are not sufficient for
this purpose. There is a future for Water Transport in Kerala for tourism as well as Cargo
transport. The roads and railways have already reached a stratum point. Main problem
associated is the hanging of power lines. There is a proposal for a joint venture high-speed
catamaran service through the coastal area from Ernakulam to Thiruvanathapuram with
private participation. Valiyathura in Thiruvananthapuram is easily accessible by the Harbor
Engineering Department. Mr. Kumar suggested that their facts be put forwarded to the W.B
officials when they reach Kochi.
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 86



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
Mr Raveendran of Kerala Shastra Sahithya Parishath mentioned the bad condition of
National water way -3. He is of the opinion that National Waterways are not developed
properly. He further talked about two facts first is about the optimum use of present roads
and the second one is the construction companies building new roads.
Mr. Regi G Nair - Asst. Engineer Irrigation Department, Kollam talked on the optimization of
the containerization.
Dr. Shankar- Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi - Scientist in-charge, Agro forestry
cum publicity. He compared Kerala to an Oceanic island. The principles of island biology
should be taken into account. The climate of Kerala is also important. Statistically speaking
Kerala receives 90% of its annual rainfall, in about 10 hrs. Tree cover of Kerala has
decreased considerably. He clarified the following data of decreasing trend of forest
coverage in the year 1900 -70% forested area, 1950 - 50% forested area. 2000 - 25%
forested area. He presented a case study of Forest related EIA the Thenmala eco-tourism
project for the participants. He explained the methodology followed to arrive at reasonable
conclusions.. The EIA also focused on attitudes and approaches of people. Landslides
usually occur in Erattupetta, Kulathupuzha region. Placing project components makes
matrices. The eco tourism project is a registrered charitable society. Mr. Mohanlal of the
Indian Forest Service is the Secretary of the Thenmala ecotourism Society.
To a question from Mr Joseph J Karoor Friends of Periyar, Thekkady consultants stated that
approaximately 300 km length of roads out of 2800 km passes through ecologically sensitive
areas. Consultants also explained the selection and screening process of roads. They
indicated that economic interest and environmental aspects are prime concerns. Ecologically
sensitive roads will not be deleted but will be subjected to detailed Environmental
investigations to prepare an EIA in order to obtain MOEF for clearance in case these are
included for further investigations.
The consultants mentioned that a large percentage of accidents are taking place in rural
areas.
A resident of Kuttanad area (Professor at CUSAT) where the three proposed waterways are
planned explained the reasons for negligence of IWT. One of the main reasons is due to the
faster mode of Road and Rail Transport. There are some private operators of boats. His
impression is that through water ways only Cargo transport is possible and it is not profitable
also. There are many country boats plying in Kuttanad area, which serves as a means of
transport for the local people.
Dr. Komalavalli Amma mentioned that at present waterways are neglected and there is
ample scope if it is properly developed.
3) Scoping Workshop - 3 Kozhikode, 2th February, 2000
An environmental and social scoping workshop was held on the 2h February in Hotel Malbar
Palace, Kozhikode. This was the last of the three workshops that were proposed to help
identify' priority environmental and social issues, covering the districts of Kasarkode, Kannur,
Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad. Kozhi kode workshop also discussed the waterways
aspects in a low profile. Er.K Narayanan, Superintending Engineer, Roads and Bridges
Department of the PWD North Circle, Kozhikode, opened the workshop with a keynote
address.  Mr. Andrew Blelloch, Environmental Specialist in the PCC, made a welcome
speech. Mr. Dushantha Kumar, Director of the Project Implementation Unit, was Chairman.
Apart from the organizers, the various NGOs and officials who attended the workshop
included:
Louis Berger International/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 87



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                     ESAMP
1. Mr U Chandran Assistant General Manager Telecom Department, Kozhikode
2. Mr KD Joseph, Assistant EE, Kerala State Pollution Control Board, Kozhikode
3. Mr AM Jayan, Town Planner, Calicut Development Authority, Kozhikode.
4. Mr. Shanmugan, Assistant Executive Engineer, Kerala Water Authority,
Kozhikode
5. Mr. KG Harshan . Assistant Executive Engineer, Kerala Water Authority,
Kozhikode
6. Mr KM Unnikrishnan, Society for Protection of Environment, Kerala.
7. Mr Mohan Kumar, Deputy Director, Anthropology, KIRTADS, Kozhikode
8. Mr Dinesh Kumar, RASTA, Kozhikode
9. Mr Jayendran, Executive Engineer, PWD,Vadakara
10. Mr. Narayanan Namboothiri, EE roads division Manjeri
11. Mr.Abdul Khader, Executive Engineer, PWD Roads Division, Kozhikode
Er. Narayanan during his keynote address mentioned that the state government has
undertaken major policy reforms as a part of this project with the World Bank Assistance. An
institutional Development Study is planned to review the institutional needs, options and
resource requirements for sustainable road sector management reforms in planning
financing and development of network assets. Er. Narayanan mentioned that the traffic
volume in Kerala is annually increasing at the rate of 10-11% and discussed the vital role of
the road network in the state's development activities. He also mentioned that the aim of the
project is to rehabilitate and improve the existing roads with minimal acquisition of land and
minimum dislocation of people and maximum benefit to the population at large and the
resettlement and rehabilitation objectives would be followed up with the Panchayat level
discussions.
After the keynote and welcome address, the various experts addressed the audience with
their assigned topics for discussion. Mr. Andrew Blelloch, Environmental Specialist, talked
on the environmental and social assessment process for the highways.  Mr Willium
Cummings, Social Impact Specialist, talked on the environmental and social assessment
process for the waterways. Mr. Sundara Rajan, Environment Impact Coordinator, talked on
the environmental concerns in highways and waterways, and Dr. Biswanath Debnath, Social
Impact Coordinator, discussed social concerns relating to highways.
Mr Narayanan Namboothiri mentioned that Telecom and Kerala Water Authority works are
affecting the road traffic. He argued for an out side the road space formation for separate
space for the utilities and drainage facility. He mentioned about a proposal for Nilambur
bypass. This bypass alignment identified is about two km mainly passing through paddy
fields.
Mr U Chandran of Telecom department opined that suggestions for putting ducts are well
and good. He also suggested having removable slabs along footpaths so that the telephone
cables can be taken through the ducts provided below the slabs. He sought better facilities
for crossing of roads. Mr Kumar later replied that there should be economic assistance from
the concerned departments and the present cables, which are already laid, cannot be
removed.
Mr Abdul Khader told that in this project the past history of the road development should be
evaluated. Ribbon development is everywhere He is in favour of parallel roads and bypass
roads to get away from the present narrow roads. He mentioned that all roads become
drains during monsoon season and there are sewerage outlets to the road. Surface water is
entering the roads. Capillary effect on the roads should be considered and also the
topography and climate. In Kerala there is very little budget for road improvements. He told
Louis Berger international/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                 88



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                    ESAMP
that facility of roads is limited and there are no traffic regulations. Providing standard width is
impractical. Access roads are the main problem for PWD Roads. These should be included
in the project. Mr Kumar later replied that environmental and social concerns are given high
weight age in this project. He mentioned that that minimum width of the road is provided
according to the traffic.  State has to justify all investments to the bank. Capillary rise is
considered in this project design. Geometric correction of roads will be carried out wherever
feasible. Mr Sundara Rajan later explained that total solution of our problems cannot be
achieved by any single project however all viable alternatives will be taken in to
consideration. He mentioned that state government has taken a major initiative towards most
of the problem through the recently introduced Highway protection bill.
Mr KD Joseph mentioned that during public hearings public concerns are carefully
considered.
Mr Jayan of Calicut Development Authority. He is in favour of controlling visual pollution
effectively. The road markings should be considered. In the case of bypasses it is possible
to collect betterment revenue. He stated that it will be very useful to every one if the already
approved alignments are considered.
Mr Shanmugam of Kerala Water Authority mentioned that in the case of provision of water
supply pipes provided along the roadsides, the department could pay the expenses.
Widening in fact shift the existing pipeline towards the center so provision of relaying of
pipes should be made.
Mr KG Harshan of KWA told that the cost of relaying of pipes should be included in the
project budget. He also told that there are environmental and social concerns of this pipe
laying should be taken in to account.
Mr Unnikrishnan representing an NGO mentioned the need for avoiding ecologically
sensitive areas. Rehabilitation of the people should be given more importance. The impact
on low-income groups is high although the cost of land acquisition is very low. There should
be some way out for the storm water drains. It is time to prevent the garbage being thrown in
to the drains. In all project related matters there should be 100 % transparency. If this is
done there will not be any difficulty in convincing the people. Social and environmental
impact should be considered seriously.
Mr Mohan Kumar of Kerala Institute for Research training and development studies for SCs
and STs mentioned that there are about 103 SCs and STs in Kerala. Most of these weaker
sections live along the roadsides. In the case of low income group's rehabilitation will be very
difficult as the culture is linked with the land they hold. The encroachers should be classified
and given compensation. Mr Mohan Kumar mentioned that in the case of SC and ST
rehabilitation, it is always better to be spread and mixed with all other communities but they
usually don't like the idea than a colony.
Mr Dinesh kumar of RASTA an NGO mentioned that the roads are very important for social
advancement. People should be made aware about the various positive aspects of the
project:
Mr Jayendran mentioned that overloading of vehicles is a serious concern as this cause
accidents and damage to the road as well. Hence he explained the need for controlling these
aspects. In the case of drainage accidents and divider accidents it should not be charged
against the people who construct this. Mr Sundara Raja later mentioned that in foreign
countries this is charged to the corporate body not to individuals.
Louis Berger international/ Sheladia Associates/ CES/ ICT                89



<                                                                                                    Pi
Ln
0                                              E
0 -0              CL -
CL 0            In
0                                                 0              <
0           0                                     3.
-0          -0                                LU                 -o
0           0
C:                             w
ro                                                                 Fu            w
-0          -0                                    CL                 QJ          w
-0          -0                  w  m                                             N
ci          w                     Z               c                 tu           m
tn     -C                              :3 cu             cu                              to
0
E              E
c            Q) u
> 00                              w
0              IU
E       cL          CL
d)      0            0                    >            u lu
c            Q)
z           z                  Z  LU                                tu
-0          V) w               u -0
c              u                                    e-u                          0
U =               <  C:
ru                                ru           0 -0E
w                          CL.            -0     E                            to
0                               ru    2
-0       -0                 <                     c
r,       c                 z                        CU        Q)
FV       ra                                            2                      E
>                           0                                 :3
w       C  Ca                             .6 cu        c     w                          u
00 w
(A
0                                                   E      IU W  c
'ZZ cu                                m                 0     0                  E
0                              E     0     CL    cu              ru
M     v        ra
i>m            -
-0  0                                                                         7=
m                        u      c
wi                                               <     w                  C  IU is
0 W            >                                                                >
ru5.  0 E   0  t;
Q)                                      u     Q,
=3                          =3                   CL    40
U     D      - w
0                  0                                QW) E
z               0 -0                           4)
 c      E                                                                      u
0  W  M     W                  j CL c          0 m               0                 u
-j    ne -10                                     -o       LL-
Ln                             >   a') Lu            0              VI
0
X      CL
23     z
z
LU                       m            m                 cl,
Ch
0                                                      cu                                w
ui (in
<                 W    (A                                               :3                 CL
z   *, r-                                                                    <
CO  0                                                  c
0                        0                                  0                                 0
0 u                                                    u                                 u
< U
0       0                        to
LU                                         LI
C     ,,:- 00
CL                               C5
rNT                o
r4             1.04      C)    10 CN
rq                             co
     r-4 rn                                            0
m  1-    co 'cu, cn
C 00 -      O', L) co          C Ln    'IT   C-4                                o co
E                            Q)    w w             en                (U                CN
r Ln   0 E   r,           0 r,4                                                                V)
o    Nr 'E                C    r,4X               0              r14C
LL. C       q- -T   rl)          4v    _r_ C14  C14    "T                                CN 'IT             LLJ
0  'IT LLi -Y  cCL ro u-m         LL.            CL              en en              u
2                                                    -o           to             (U
c           a U
CL                                                    ru           E <            :3
c CL                                                              0
m F-           -0
<            c                                                 <
z            Ca
t:                                                    c                          __j
0                                     ru          0   cu          C:
Ca 0                                                0
ce              0                    m
co          Ln                             (D    cu
'A         CL                          c
tn                         E  o
cu                                                        m                D-           c                 Ln
4:- C                                        CN  CL    ui
Q) != Q)
-0                   z                     In    u        u                        0  CN                     m
E .2           m  C ce            C     >          F) m                CL Lr)       <             c
-"IcCL M     o                 u     'Ir         __j                   Ln -IC    N            0
<        m  L  Wm                c      E       F-                                             <
Lnw                                                                    CL E   o  ru                 m
Q)    0                                 Z     E  m         P
:3                       E
c                           0           Ln
m      cu C) 0, IV                > 0    0
tu         0                                    C, O CO                 ,e - U               <
co       E                  c                                             .e Lu
<               Q)       2                                                       -e cu<
ru ro           -        2               cu            a- ai
ct                         c                              u E                     0           Q!f
mu      0         LU
V) :Z                      iiz   m Oi        C)u   i-e         Ln U   CL          12
cu
co
cu                                          CN                                                  Ln               10
ZO]                                Tr,



CL
00
<                                                        El.                    9  ,,
0 c
(3)                      0  a?                 6  C)             CJ
0            LL.0                   u -C             0CU
CL
0                E
cr                                                              EE
0                                   20 MO
0                                        u
0                                                                 C) 0
-o                                     cu              , c
>             >
cu        (V             E u                      (U                cu
E
0                                      0
I
ai
-0                     u 0                                   -0       Qi
CUW        c0                                                     E     E
CU
±R    cua
E 0                                         0
E          Dw          -Z
>       -o            0)
a)         0                >
C                                        V)w
-o    o w                            c
-Z- -z co    7E                           0
m             c
2- CU to    0 cu     C:              a)0
>-O        0             (U v >         U     t
a) W       : ':        -Le 5=        lu      a?
-0            Qi            C                   C:
C o M
c:to          M U                   =3
C: -o                            C: 0
tb     Ca-              a)> m w                                   0
uE              0 cu         rcu:  -o                    _le
%-d                    u >                     -,,, B    -     -E -s
Q) U
LU                    cu       0                          c
U          00      Et:a
u
E                     <  C:
cu   Q) CD    Q) w c) E
u     a)   >
o             2          a)      u >                           C: -0 0
>                     .3 cu   m 8      0                 C) C: U
Z-E MO     -S               v)E     -r- u- t;  L VI             m Ln
CL                                                                                       2:-
X      CL                            E
W) <
z                                                                                  E
Z      <   -.j                            -0
LW     w                                C:=
CL.                                     0 z                                                 E
CL    Lw   rn                             -o                                                2
Z                               (U
C)                        0c
0             0 0        0                     0               C)
U             u           zu           u                      u
<
Lii                                                                                Lr)00
10              Lr)
03              rl)
(N                                                             CT)Ln
CN                                             00
tu     r')                                                            CD r4
CD Ln                                                            'o
x  E            >c
C: Ul                                   Ln
0r)        0             0 Ln                  0 x             0r,                   Ln
-C %D    E -C r,4 ruE       CN                       E                mE              U-1
U          CL en   w a- rl) L ui     m                        w          0-    LL LU            u
2                                                          -0
LnCN                      0
Ln
>             >                               m                         <
-    -                                 c      1.0                       m
0                                  cu      <       u       cu
C:   S       c                        2      z
u- ru       0    0                                                                  10
-Cu              u                        cu                co
0                                                         w
a)   -                                                                         _r_
di            -                    z                                                            Ln
cu      cu                                     :3
Qi            E-                    E
0       CL
-E    E                - x c-       cu
c:                               U (U                              0
w                                           ro
QJ   -o                       C)-   CL E            OD    en
E                             W                     c
3c                   QJ                                E lu              -0 r
Ln                                                         0 Ln
o                                   0    c     >                   ai
eU-j         C-         V)                                             E
>                                                            >    -:5   ro di > di  W  co  0  E :3 cou ce c -r- 6
rz                                          ai              c       0        a)
cu      0 -a    X     :3
Uo-   L-           ur) u CL
0
V) Z       r,         co            m
0



CL.
2                              ) n          -o
<                              m-C
v)                           L7-                               E
>
<
>
0           0    cu
0 -2        -
p                -0
a, ru                c
m
u
cu                           lu
-0                            E>
>1                     U        
7   E             ai E Q-     >.U-0
C: Ln   a)
E  z           ru            2 2
cu u          =   0 cu          ro
CD     u              0             0                         0
0
u                 c        ai
a. Lw -0    uf    a          z                         z
uC:      w C:     :3                                 0       CU               Gi
GJ      -0 ai     0             >                 E                      0
C:E                                                            ln m
cu -6               C:3                  0 0
E          -= ai               =
E cu     0          -5                              >
E        u                                          ru                  cu
C: w 0                                                    cu 0          0
5.w                 c
tn         E                         >                                  2       0
tn                          o                                           cu      -
U                            E
< =                                  u
0
M ra          m
ci-         > C           cL 2
LW                                                              c 2     C                <
aj      12p                        00      ra
C: -.E                               6
5         (U
C: -0      rx, 0-            co                      0
6 E                             C: :3
Q)   E     E                                                IV      -u
cu                           w                      u     0
C)             Z       u     z -2        u                    u CL                  -m-i u,E
CL     0               -EE
x      CL                                                                                       0
CA   <
z
Z      <           0
LU                         C:
ru -0 Q)
4.. cu E                                                         -0         -0
Lw  (A     0           0.                                                                tf
:3         =,
<    Z   cu         2 ei                                                                   -'T
C) M    0                     C:         C:                C:                        C:
0C:               0          0                               0           0
0
u    U0) -0           u           u                u              u          U rl)
0
<
LLI                               rn                                          C)
CL                       L2                                          Lr)
Lri
Lr)               a)
13-     r4
M                 r4            M
c:0      6                w              6         r14 'R               U
E                       r)z       C:               c              c          'I- r14
o -   X     0                0              0         LC) r14               V)
r- Ln ro                    -a             -C         r14 Ln               LU
0- Ln LL                                              Ln r                 u
2
CL                                                                                                                          LU
cu                  0                                                                      u
u                   co                u                                                    0
c                   -                 cu
Q)                  0                uf
g) -,5              t:               -0 -0                                CL     0        <
Ln a)               r-                c                                                    ra
0                   U                       C:         >.
E                u                                        C:                  E
0
a)                 a) E                   2 E                 0         cu
E                 0          7 t:         M
tn                 E                                           ; E                   Ln   -0        tn
tn            2             C:o            o              E -r-
>              to z -0      LA     M :3                      M
M 0                       M        z       cu
LU    CL         =   0                                  'a
0 E            Q) -0               CL   -o r)                         C:
-a                                 c                 M E M
E                                       V)
>1    '5  an C W --           - M
E                 a)         E E r-
to             ci-    0 ra                0 C9 Z
C-6                                        to M                                                       c
:3                                       C       c:
U  0-0c        >, E                      Qj -o      clM
0     M     M                            -
>                   Q, E 2 2             u             u                          C:
E                           2     U  QjIc -      u o   S >     o >
u                                 -0 JE
cu           -0 3 c-             -E       Z)
z                           Lu                                 t)    U.J a- CL. CL_
r4
zo                                2
Q)



ci      C)    0 Q)    MO
U     0 w
<                                                                     E     C                    E c
C)                 6                     C       m
Z 0             0
E             0    m cu U           tDLC U
-±Z-3E                                   0     0
(a                      t:                                 IF:      u
2 (u C, m                                   m 2 E c
0                  -S 0 =                                   Z m m 0
,2"W               uou(v,              _C:
ru   m C           D     - 0  -       a) m (U                          u
-0 (U 0     a) - ,       :1_-               8 'i   -0
(u E          E    E     m
uj                  o       c
'v      E     :3 m    c                       ai
.6              29       =     0. C    0                          c:
0-   0  cu         o -0 (v       m -a
L,            a) a)                                            m
CL 7                     M    =   D
Q)              f -0
T    CL,            c                  c
cu 0 m     ru  -0 cu -r CL               > U     fo
C c ai        0               m m
w             >, E    z     ru      E
=;        0             >                               -o
c    -0 "          af
U     E               E                  E
E                               0    0 0             b
U       Q)
u                           0 0 0                              c
z                                        u (i
mCL                                                    cl.
vi         C) 2 CL
CU -0                               c         c C    >
z cu       a)    m
a)UU
0 D a)                     m CU    to         (U c
0 CL                  cu   U     m            0 0
cu 0    ra      cCLm       0
cu                           CL    .. z     :i              -0 -
D cu0
lj -0         u         Q)
m 0 0                    C       m
0     m a_         C    -m C D (U        m
r-              2       -o 71 C: cw     0 -0                  >
mu    m 0 o              m    o C:
Q)                                                 CL r_
:;                -0         ra                               0 m
LU                   -W                                                o M          -0
cu                            b    -
!2                      S?       cu
T  CL U     C) m               M
z                C) =3                         u
C               .e Qj 0      ra      FU g)      E       E a)
0             0 0 --c         0                          :3
0                CL u            u- - P        :3 u         2 _mj T  ou     z
ce
CL     0                  C
X      CL.                0                  0
(A
z
z      <          .2                                                                    0
6LI                         aN
CL                       -0                 -a                                         -o a)
M.                        cu M
LLi tA     0 -M      -
<          Z   cu                                                      a,
<
C: 0               C:                                          C
C)  (Z                                                                         ru
u                     -T                                       u
< U - -
-j       w         rn
<        a         a:)
w        0         :;                                                           6
LLJ                (14
CL        rn
A
o
co
zT
co              rn                                         rn                     u
10              oo                       wC)                Z M
E      C Ln C)                                     c10                C co
0 rn       m       Ln                       0                  C CN                 tn
-C cN      E       r14                     -CN                 -C cN                 w
0- rn   LLw        rn                       0-N                0- rn                 u
2                                                       m
CL                                                                                                                   u
Q)                  0
E
<
M
0                                                                                             (U
cu         aj
c4
ro -Id                                                                       w
tn                                L2 -C                      cu                                v)
aj C)                                                            E
:3      -                                     - -     Uf         ru MO
OL      2 0-r-                                m0       cu        co 0    q             m
MN         W U M C.                 >.0                                      C
ra 'm      W       rU              C:                                        a
>1  o :2 0 w m
F->        0 0   (V                CL
w
C:)M0      cu                                       M
cc) Ln     C     M                 -C                       lo             C
la                                - \1 IM M          0    C                  CL               ai     r-
cu     m 0 0      <, "          =    m                  a,                    U lo rn
>            Ln       C) ro   >                  I
p                                                             oo ra C 0 >rn
E                               u Z5
u   0.      m                             R     >- -C              2
3:                    -                  -     -                    Ln
u >        -o                                    C C) -0 a)               clj
Z      F--        af           LAj                   LE      CILU                               to
Vzo I                                                                                            _j



CL                                                         w          -Cy:                           'IT
C                          Ql)            cl,
<                                                                     IV              u
V)                                                                  'o co
C                                       ai0
-C
0 -0
C                                       -cE              -E- -w
>                                         0
ro
m  C)                                   o --u
U
>- ro
Q)       v  C
c            c               CL
Q) 0                                        cu
-Y           10
0
rz                                        2            U
u                                                      Q)
oc -o
-:E                                        0
0                                           -C
-C                                          M
C)            cu
u m      00-<           C: _rz
-o cu        -o
wc
>                              C: b     -r   m
O      w w w w                 >' 'a E  a) Q) to CL      m     Q)
-,- -r-  m         C:         7'c    cU C-u     c us
0                                    Co E       M w
r13
0 w                                                   c
o    r           r- f o       o   -C     z
-o             0   -        ,C)   ai            0
ea       m             -C            -C
CL)                              w        SL um  ro
c                  32 u
cu           CU   LIJ    M    C:   2        LU                   (ML,
U)            E c U           m ri -0  -C                    -0
U)              M CU   0                                      - 5 EU, P 2
La.                              C      I'll  c   N        E
m                                                  -o
ro                         J-Z    m  GLI, 0
lu                 -E
E               3r E    -             C     t-
>. 0                    C)       -   w             C
U      M    1= u     0           :3 >1 Ne 0     bo       c<      u
LLI                   0 -_ C            -0      a)  -0   U -0             oM    0) -6
4.1       c co -     w    0 c       2        :3 C:                       E
- o a) ru "I  Zl ; m                    , =     c -C ai Z;; za,
m    > > >    u        -C               p          : CL D m  CL
E        to   m C:        u                                    a
z                                           0        E          E 2 > "
CL - -              -0         CL     C-
CL                        0- ru                     CU            0 S       -o  -o
0 IU -= Q) 0 0 m        Q)           m       -o   cEm > m
c   00 o     o
f: 'w 7-  E <    8b Ll- E C' C'L  2 u          CL    m   uuaf    Ce
o                                                               >
CL    C)
x     0-                                              C:
LA  <                                           5 0
z                                                 -C
z               .0                                     i
LLJ                                                     0
Z)
CL   LLi (A  0                           m           C) tLo
<     <   Z    CU Ln
CD
u                                                             0
Ln                                                                      u
CN  V)   C14              C14
U
LLJ
0                                   >                  m Ln
CO                          10   r4
LrI
C                           0           cN   E                  C14 Ln In
CZ                         i-f         co                      rn  rl) rl)
CU                10               )                                    u
C:                m                -,                                    V)
x        0 (U r            0           00       r-4
r'l          ID                  C:                                  LLJ
<r,)            rl)         C
2
CL                                                                                                   u
0
M         D
<
0
to -a                            0
<  P  rn                   CL)   Lr)
m Lr)                                 M
LU a) o                    :3   m
=3
co               Cbo                 0
F-                                                             OL co c0                       E
m    (U       c                cu   0m
i, E                  0
0b               O:f            m
7
C,           Na,               -M
C) 0          C:                                           CL        0
u                E                 o -o
>1                                                     C:
-o                          m E                            a 'a 0 c E-U
-a                 ru     m         LL                 z    qj  MCU
=3 cl          -=    c to r-                           6E     r
0 0                    E                 C:     C
2Z
>            0             C:
C                                                    Z >       m
z (u0                          'V)    ce     >2        CL Q)
Q,                          15-21
cum-C
z                                              U-                      u
Ln            10
co
V) Z        r4                                                                     :3
0
--i



kf)
u
u
o                  U
u
C:
C: c :      r) M
LU         E
13 T-0 Q)
0       c U0 -= -0
0U   E
Q)
Q)            E >
-    c a)0      ru
L-                cu E cu a)w      c
to c          u ru
E
2
ru
E               Q) -0 > CL cumE
cu                 c c F-    C)m -C U
a) LU           U  C
cu                                     Q) -o
0        0 c
CU            u W W
Q)      >        o lu
U       (U
ru        12 .2            cu         - -; -!-; o
E       C: W C: Qj --14 --
bo   E                     0    0 cu
cu     U        C:
'A     CU U     ru                         cL       E         0 >
to u    CL
u
C     0                        Li,
to               ODu0 0        a)   to
cuC:             0 u w m      0 c m 0
u a-                z<           a) - - -: E -0 zt-- 'u 0
U.j             m u                              tz =          c m -a -o
0 a -
bo E                                                CD
C        C:                                    cu 0 LI u
ru              cu
-o          UC
c          omp u Qal) u u 2 Q,      2       w
a-                       CL       C_
C) VA        U)     ui         W-o     m c     <             0- o -0 o
0
<
0     Z
z     <           0
ua    ce          4                        0
CL                            -o            C)
CL             0                            clq
<     F-   Z                     C)
C)         0cn
u            u          u
<    U -
-j      cu
<        r_
ed       0
6LJ     _r_
CL
-0
,V CU                     1, Ln
-0                     'IT0                                                                u
x  E            cn        rn0
r           rn         CN Ln                                                              LU
M                      00N
rn rn                                                              u
0
0                                                             u
CL16                                                 z                                                             0
ci:                                                  -o                                                            <
0                                                 Q)M
U-c
cu                                                                                           U-)
CL    >                                                               c
ro 6 -zt:
E            Q) -o                                                            F-
Z5           -<
c                                           c c                                                                   C:
ru                                          M     u
C:                   E                      m        U U
z       C            z     r)        TE
0                      co
z            r4         r4
ai                 k      11



CN
0
c
0
tA                                              :3
CL -T3
C)
E                                               E
o
Ul) 0
<                              -0   r- -r- c:     I -0     r-
c         W      0
0      0  Ln
2                 a)        0
5, Qj                                                                           -0  CL
=3 aj                                     '33u                                         2
CU>
C:                                        E                CL Q)
o          0      CL
I  "O            Ln         co       _r_                   cu
u          C:
tu                                cu  v                           c         u             E   m
m                 o-,           D  C  0   =                _rz
LA                                              o                               cu
E                                         m  0) a) E    -         0
o                    (v C: Q)             C:        CU                   Ln  E
>  0      QJ -0             10    -0 -0
-6             m         C,4 >
CU                                                         a)
0            CL                    -  2   0   6               -E
LU                                            ': a m                                      Q) ai      m Q-
c   L 6L '   z-
C)                   0             c             -0     m   .  o   m  w
cu        -                -W  0         E   n             w                       2                 a-i
w                                             ?-                      ra     0      Q) C-      tc            a)
CL    Z                            cu         Q) -E  3:               r_         t: -o  E      c: 2      ci :3
U             >   C  W      o  w   a U-   ru cu            fl c  0      m   0    a)
ra                      -o     u _r_  E  L,- z         o
CL      0
X       CL
(A    <
z
z                      .0
LLJ                     4   CD                                     CD                                    CD
ro  (=)                                     C)                                    O
.=    C)                                     C)                                    C)
LLi  (A    0                                               r-I
<
<
M 0
0              CD
U    0   U     r4                                    r4                                     r-4
<
0
LLJ       -C
CL
CN                                    10      -1
r4                                   C)     --
CN00
-0    cli                                    r
x     E  10                                    r
co                                    00
a o
2
ft-
'6
CLJ
E                                                                                                                                                     <
F                           tn
M                                                                                                                                                    Lf)
ci
ci                                 10     cu
-2                                  E     2
0
<          E    ro                                                                     [2                                 'Z
co                                    ru                                        11 ru                            M
-o                                   -= ?>                                         p                                  C: >                             C:
c                                                                          Ln
-ro                                                                               LL.
-0    -  -                             I.; 2
E        <   :6 --,z
u
u                                  C:
w                                  M                            cu
z                &                                         aw                             U-                               29
Ln                                                                                                                                                    cu
0                                                                                                                     M
C)                                                                         T
vi Z      CN
M



C'  c
(A                                  , w
LU                                  0   -
C
uQ -w c
0 . =-
0    0
0ru
E ~ ~ ~  ~  ~~E        -
E  -0 m   0  -o  ~ ~ ~ ~ 05 -" -2 ~ cu-
>,   ~~~~  0  c  ra~~I~  -0   i I(
_  Z-                W    a O-,
(U  8   c 0  wraj     C    0 e
0  W-0  ~~   c       -    0 -  -
Ln  a)  o  2  -  C ,     Q)  c:   0  '( r
- o     - ru                    a E E-0  (ur  W  
~~>-0             "-4-0  -0u  - 
tn      E   E   W >o              0  E
t.  -  -.               _  CNC- 0  WQ)
LU     4'      'U 0     -0 00w(
~~  I-  ~ ~     0     0  (    0   r --0
a      m m  E  ~ ~ 0     0 )         a
(N:  (U   a  a)a(N    )
LU   (N ~ Lo c  -   r   - .  L U   - C  
0
0  z~~~~
LL V   C            C                          U
o                            0. -0 0  Z
<  U  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
t                   U~~~~~~~(
0~~~~~ 
C                          C                          0.) _r
CL~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I-    U       C    CO)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
i0  CLnO 
02   CO'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-*  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
>.  ~~~.  .C          C~~~
CL                 0~~~~~~~~~~~
COC>  I;;:  *~~CO~ >u-
02                C   -~~~~~~~~ ~~~~CO 0C  -02
02~~~~~~~



00
CN
<
U.)                              5u
W
U
CL
>Q)            Q) ru w   c:       0
ro    <    0
co cm:
-2 m, :                                    0
Q)                0  >           U-)
0 v= :3
0 2      c                  c           -1< u- o
; 3: - -W
0  0 =      -0 -0     a)          to0
to       W        U               >           c -   's 0     E   u
c     E =         !.;             w           -     -  -
Ln      0 -0
CL
-M                                                     -0     ei
LA               0  >      qj             -  .- 't  F           r-       2
-o           0    -0                     M  U  0
U                                 cu    U     w
LU                         (U                    E                    r-u
-C        E              o            o    -o             -0C    rv
m  E    -o           ui                    1                 ?:
U         O- ,                       U         ?  m
c     z;l -0  0      W      E .2        C:    7n             QJM
m        (U                                     tv       -Ca    m
z                            5       -a    co    -C     (U e)              U  0
-X -2 -m ::2                        0-
Q)    E =      " -   F-                       E -0     0  1 (U
0                           c
2 '6  m     m I       D  m  m  D  0        0  0 -C  ai      -C Z3--
u. n- LL -0       __j      --oU   -o -o             U               U    0
o                                                                         U-
CL     0
X       V) <
z
O
z
CL                                                                                     0
CL.    LLi  A    0                                                                    C)
C14
r-                                                               CN
z       tn
0                                                                         ZZ
0
U    r-4                                                          Tr
< U
i
LLJ
U
Ln
w
E
L.- r                                                                                                       U
2
U
CL
<
m
0
u E
cn         o                                                                                               Ln
tn        zl--
C:                              co m                                                            17;                                 E
V) c: 0                                                      Ln     C:                              (U
-o
m                                  0 'U
C:                      E          T  U                                                      U   0
> -0
z        2    U                                                             U
Ln                                                                                                                                   w
M                                                                                                                                  co
Q)                                                                                                                                  0
z'



U.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U ~~~~~~~~ 
C,,~~~~~~~~~~~~ U-
-C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  
U 
c           U~ C
2  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,"2 C-- oQ
Ln      _r_  c      C  ~~~-C0 a) O.w
0~~~ 0  .0Q     mE  ;b
E                        2 0z0'0  onC
.0  -  -  u.00  o-r-  -  -w 0
E  CEC  ~ ~ ~ --C~CC
-aO .     0           r!  nw -
w> O =E C ~  
I-  ~ ~ ~~~ CR3  n  ..CL   -  C 0  a
U  ~~~~~-  E CL E r E ~ c  03  ECCC 0
U  0-~~~~-c~~~0~~  ~~5E~  -c
aru   -0 ~.e 0-
0                          0~~~a  > Q 
U0      0            00Q) a ,c?  0 :
m C   a  W  S-  0  .  -o
<~~~~( 2U           o         0 -0a 
- -         N ~~~~~~C0m  00
~~~  ~~~-'~~~~U~~~2  - Qi  2 
< U             .,,~~~( E U 0  r 
-~~~~~c  'm c c- 
0
LU
0U     LL(n            0         00   00(
0          0                          u~~ 0t-V
0.        <0~~
C         C'~~~~~               C  R  -        0
x E~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
W  C0                      0   00
0~~~~~~                               ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -U 
0.                               -2  :3      -0~ -  -
c    C                                    cu~~aC~ 
C        .~~~~~~~~C            E 
0     2~~~~~~~~ 
CL             2~~~C 
Z ~~~~~~~~C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ M>  
___  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 Q =  u
-J  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0Q-r
I_ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _  0o



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                          ESAMP
APPENDIX Q
NAME OF WORK: ANNUAL MAINTENANCE OF T.S. CANAL FROM KOVALAM TO
KOLLAM
Typical Estimate for 1 km
1.   Clearing light jungle including uprooting of thick vegetation and
small trees of girth up to 300 m and removal of rubbish up to a
distance of 150 m.
Say 250 m2 @ Rs. 50/1 00 m2                                125.00
2.   Labour charges for removing water hyacinth and other vegetable
growth from the waterway, cutting, collecting, conveying to
convenient the with all leads and lifts and incidental charges for
country boats and other necessary equipment required for the
work etc, complete.
Say 720 m2 @ Rs. 120/100 m2                                864.00
Subtotal        989.00
Contingencies                                               11.00
TOTAL          1000.00
(Source: Irrigation Department)
LoLis Beigei International/ Slheladid Associwtes/ CES/ ICT                   100



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                       ESAMP
APPENDIX R
DREDGE DISPOSAL PLAN FOR
KSTP- PHASE-1 -IWT PROJECT
1 INTRODUCTION
The IWT Pilot project ts one of the Phase -1 component of the Kerala State Transport
Project to be implemented with the World Bank loan assistance. The project has taken up
the three Canals in the Kuttanad region linking Alappuzha, Changanaserry, Kottayam and
Vaikom. As a part of the improvement proposals no widening and land acquisition is
proposed, however there will be dredging in all the three feeder canals in order to have
sufficient depths for the smooth navigation of design vessels. In order to address various
environmental issues and impacts, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) including a
stand-alone Environmental Impact Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared.
The nature of impact depended upon the presence of heavy metals and pesticides, which
could be leached into the groundwater if dredged materials were to be deposited on land.
This will be applicable to the Kottayam - Vaikom canal. This would be of particular concern
if any dredged material were used as the base for dwellings using shallow wells under the
deposited materials for drinking water. These contaminants could also be re-suspended by
the dredging operation and enter into the food chain through fish and as a part of the diet of
local people this could affect their health.
None of these impacts are anticipated as the test results does not revealed any undesirable
substances in the sediments that will make serious health hazardous of any kind. Further the
test results where also evaluated based on the Hazardous Waste Management Rules 2000
of MOEF also. This aspect is further analysed as below.
TABLE 1 PROJECT WATERWAYS
ActualLeghO
SI. No.  aterwaysName            Of Length  Construction   LredgngthO
SI. No.  Waterways             Feeder Canal  (Km)    Work In Each  Dredging
______________C   anal  (K in) (M
1       Alappuzha -Kanjiram -  AK canal     23      23            12,000
Kottayam
2       Kottayam  (KanJiram)e"l KV canal     42     24.5          22,500
-    Vaikom    (Actual Waterway
distance from Kottayam
to Vaikom is 42km ie.
3.5 + 24.5 + 14 Km)
3       Alappuzha           - AC canal       28     28            8,000
Changanaserry
_______  _ ___________________  ___ __________  93   75.5          42,500
Sectioni Kottayamii to Kanji iam (3 5 kim) is included in Alapptiziha-Kottayam Section and 14 km is not
conisideied in tllis piolect as it fobiins ile p.ilt ol National \vaitei ays
LoUIS Beigei Inteinational/ Shelacia A,oai,itesI CES/ ICT                  101



Kerala State Iiiland Water Transport Pilot Project                    ESAMP
2 DREDGE LOCATIONS IN ALL THE THREE FEEDER CANALS
The location where the dredging has been proposed is shown in the linear diagrams for all
the three canals separately. The maximum dredge distance is in the Kottayam- Vaikom
Canal. A detailed analysis of the length, volume etc is provided below in Table 1.0.
This document addresses the dredging locations, quality of the dredge material, its disposal
and associated environmental issues.
To make the canals navigable, there will be dredging of 156,000 cu.m of sediment from the
waterways. The locations of dredging are shown in the line diagrams in for the three canals.
Maximum dredging requirement is in the Kottayam Vaikom canal and the Minimum
dredging requirement is in the Alappuzha- Changanaserry. This can be explained from the
present condition of the canals. The Alappuzha- Changanaserry Canal is the most used
Canal out of the three selected pilot Canals and the KV Canal is the least used Canal among
the three. Hence the maximum dredging requirement is along KV and minimum dredging
along Alappuzha- Changanaserry.
2.1 SEASON FOR DREDGING
The dredging of the sediments for deepening along the identified stretches of canal is to be
carried out during non-rainy season. The best timing would be immediately after the rainy
season that is during the months of February and March or in September and October. The
season March to May is also suitable but not advisable as there would be problem of
sediment dispersion leading to aggravated water quality conditions. More over if the
dredging is planned in January to March this will allow sufficient time before Monsoon set
in. Also its is recommended to dredge only at one place per canal at a given point of time to
avoid large scale dispersion of sediments.
Dredging is to be done after the rainy season during the months of February and March or
September and October. If the dredging is in rainy season the silt will be deposited again in
the canal.
3 QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF DREDGE MATERIAL
The impact of dredge spoil disposal6' can be analysed as discussed below. A quantitative
analysis is shown in Table 2.0. In addition to this, there would be an expected annual
increased dredging requirement of 5% of this initial volume. This will be of the order of
7500 cu.m per annuam. The location of annual maintenance dredging may not be in the
same locations during construction stage. This will depend on the location of further silting
along the Canals. The location can be entirely new stretches along the canals.
The quantity of dredged material along the three different Canals are
KV Canal {22500X3.67m}         =     82575 Cub.m.
AC Canal {8000X3.67}            =     29360 Cub.m
AK Canal {12000X3.67}           =     44040 Cub.m
6 Evaluating Environmental Effects of Dredge Material Managemiienit Altei natives
A Technical Frame Work EPA US Armiy corps of Engineers, July 15, 1997
LoiiLs Beigei linteu.mationi,il/ Shel.iladi  Aq,i ( i,iie,/ CF S/ ICT   102



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
TABLE 2 IWT DREDGE MATERIAL QUANTITY ANALYSIS
Approximate
SI no  Details of dredging              Length     and  Remarks
quantity
1     Total Dredging length for KV canal  22,500 m      Maximum dredging
2      Dredging  length  for Alappuzha- 8,000 m         Least dredge volume
Changanaserry Canal
3      Dredging  length  for Alappuzha- 12,000 m        Medium       dredge
Kottayam Canal                                   volume
4      Total Dredging length            42,500 m        Total   Length   of
dredging-42.5 km
5      Total dredge volume              156,000 Cub.m   All Canals together
6      Dredge volume per kilometre      3,671Cub.m
7      Dredge volume per metre          3.67 Cub.m
This will require disposal of 1,630 cub. m per km on either side.
The strengthening of bunds on both sides has been an important improvement activity
proposed and considered for IWT pilot project. With this consideration and the dredge
material being non-hazardous, it can be deposited on the interior side of the bunds.
The project has consulted officers of the Irrigation Department at Kottayam and Alappuzha
regarding the possibilities of disposal of dredge material as well as the water hyacinth prior
to the consultation with local people. The department authorities opined that the Contractor
would be able to sell the dredge material as well as the water hyacinth profitably to the
farmers, as every individual farmer need more fill material to raise the ground level of their
optional fields. The entire section of people (100 percent) consulted during the field visit
was ready to accept the materials. The report of the field visit is attached as Annexure-1.
Further the team requested a cross section of the people to submit their consent in writing.
The consent letters thus received are enclosed as Annexure -2. This also include consent
letter from a Padashekra committee, representatives from Coconut Gardens and Residential
plots. All of them were very happy to receive the dredged material. The consultants also
believe that The Contractor will be able to make additional profits out of the dredged
material as well as from the water hyacinth disposal.
In the case of AC Canal and AK Canal the dredge disposal is a simple issue because of the
small volume involved. In this case, there are three types of areas.
Case -1 Urban Area
Dredging near Urban Area at Alappuzha and Changanaserry In this urban area, adjacent
to the towns there are vast areas of agricultural land mainly Coconut gardens. Permission
from the land owners will be required to pump the dredge material to the coconut gardens
adjacent to the Canals. Other than the temporary landscape effect there will not be any
serious impact to the land and property. On the other hand the dredge material will be very
fertile and hence useful to the coconut garden. More over, the eroded land can be filled to
certain extent giving more stability to the region.



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                        ESAMP
Case -2 Paddy cultivating area
Dredging Near Padashekarams The disposal of dredge material to strengthen the bunds
surrounding the padashekarams will spread the slurry material to vast areas through out the
paddy cultivating area. This requires written permission from the landowners. The sand will
remain and the water mixed clay (slurry) will spread rapidly away from the area of
deposition.
Case-3 Rural area
In the case of Kottayam-Vaikom canal, almost entire dredging operations are near the
garden areas of the houses on both sides of the waterways. Unlike Padashekarrams, all
theses garden areas are located above mean seal level. The disposal of the dredged material
to the gardens is a possibility that can be explored. The impact would be a temporary
adverse effect of a spoilt land.
4 TESTING AND CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF DREDGE MATERIAL
Tests have been made to evaluate the quality of the sediments for safe disposal.
Estimation of Heavy Metal Concentration For Dredging Operations: According to the
findings by the United State Army Corp of Engineers (Technical Note DOER-E6, April
2000), the maximum concentration of re-suspended sediments in water using any
conventional methods of dredging is 600 mg/L. Based upon the sampling results of heavy
metals in the sediment, estimates have been made for the concentrations of heavy metals
likely to be introduced into the feeder canals water due to the proposed dredging
operations. The formula used for the Estimation of concentration:
Contaminant Concentration (mg/L) in water = 600 mg/L * Sampled Sediment Conc. (mg/kg)
* 1 kg/106 mg
The results are presented in the Table 2.0. These concentrations have been compared with
standards presented in the World Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook,
July 1998.
TABLE 3 ESTIMATED HEAVY METAL CONCENTRATION FOR
DREDGING OPERATIONS
Station           Contaminant  Measured         Estimated     World Bank
Concentration    Concentration  Standard
in Sediment     in Water       (mg/L)
mg/kg            mg/L
Changanaserry Jetty  Copper    5.95             0.0036        0.5
Lead         0.45             0.0003        0.1
Kavalam North     Copper       7.35             0 0044        0 5
Lead         0.55             0 0003        0.1
Alappuzha Jetty   Chromium     6.25             0.0038        0.1
Copper       10 95            0 0066        0.5
Lead         0.95            0.0006         0 1
Marthandanm Jetty  Copper      7.30             0.0044        0 5
Lead         0.50             0.0003        0 1
Kanjiram Route    Chromiumn    1.70             0.0010        0.1
Copper       4.0              0 0024        0.5
Lead         0.15            0 0001         0.1
Near  Clieepunmkal Copper      3.85             0.0023        0 5
Bridge            Lead         0 20             0 0001        0 1
LOltii Bei gei liilei national! Slhelaclha A-ociateS CES/ ICT               104



Kerala State Inland Water Tranisport Pilot Project                         ESAMP
5 DREDGE DISPOSAL PLAN AND OPTIONS
Since the sediment is generally of acceptable quality chemically for a safe disposal no
elaborate arrangements are required to prevent or control adverse impacts upon the
environment. A number of available options are listed below.
1. This proposed dredge disposal plan is based on the results obtained from the
Central Water Analysis laboratory of CWRDMDRed.
2. The Client is recommended to confirm these test results by repeating the tests to
avoid any complications for a safe disposal plan prior to commencement of the
works. Conditions may change over time.
3. The present laboratory analyses indicate that there would not be any harm to the
aquatic ecology if the dredged material were dumped in the Vembanad Lake.
4. An open Sea disposal is also seen as an option for safe disposal.
5. An open lake disposal also can be explored, as the sediments will not create any
threat or disturbance to the aquatic ecosystem other than in the area of the dredging
and of deposition. Since these are slow processes the actual negative impact to the
ecosystem would be minor. The Government of Kerala clearance will be required
for this action as this is related to CRZ regulations.
6. It is expected that there would a number of willing buyers for the dredged material
for filling mixed crop areas. The dredge material can be used to protect the
Padashekarams by strengthening the bunds (Consultation at Vellinad Panchayat) on
both sides of the Canal.
7. The filling of paddy field areas should not be permitted, as it is a sensitive land use
of the State and hence an important resource of the State. The Contractor has to
ensure that the willing buyer will not fill paddy-cultivating areas for other
cultivations without obtaining the permission of the District Collector on behalf of
the State Government according to the land Utilization order of 1967.
8. Possible landfill to create new paddy areas from shallow lake areas.
9. Filling of CRZ areas is not allowed as per the CRZ notification.
10. The contractor could refer to the website
http://www.epa.gov/owow/oceanis/franiework/]ndex.html this is about evaluation of
environmental effects of dredge Material Management Alternatives. A technical Frame Work
EPA US Army Corps of Engineers, July 15,1997
11. The Client may wish to insert an additional clause in the Technical Specifications:
3.1 (contd.) The Contractor shall allow for sampling and testing of the dredged material at regular
intervals to ensure that the sediments removed conform to the quality of those from the test
sampling. Any non-conformance should be brought to the attention of the Engineer for
consideration of alternative means of disposal.
Louis Beigei lntel n.ationll1/Sllel,i(li, i  i.tei/ CES/ ICT                  I 0



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
6 INTERPRETATION OF FINDINGS
The presence of pesticides does not persist in the environment under tropical conditions
and no long-term effect on aquatic life or humans that consume fish, prawns or clams is
expected.
The presence of the heavy metal, lead, should not harm aquatic life and human beings, as
the concentration is less than 1 mg/l in all samples. The presence of copper was detected
comparatively in high concentrations in all the sampling locations. This may be due to the
high runoff from the nearby urban areas.
All of the estimated concentrations are below the referenced World Bank standards.
Therefore, the impacts from the dredging operations due to heavy metals present in the
canal sediments are expected to be minimal.
Mitigation Scenario I:
Options would include:
Open disposal at sea with prior permission from MOEF.
Disposal at abandoned quarries with all necessary precautions (Kerala Specific solution)
especially with respect to possible leaching.
Deep disposal below ground level (Very expensive)
In the case of disposal at abandoned quarries, necessary treatment can also be considered.
Consideration of deep disposal at about 30 - 100 m below the ground level could be a
better solution. The disposal in and around Kuttanad may need to be avoided. Possible
contamination of deep aquifers needs to be studied thoroughly.
This is not the case following recent test results and hence can be rejected.
Mitigation Scenario II:
If the dredged materials are suitable for filling of land it can be anticipated that there would
be a number of potential buyers for the material. In such cases it can be profitably sold after
conftrming that the proposed end users action in using the material will not create any
undesired result upon the environment.
In the case of the Pilot Project Scenario II applies and hence can be accepted.
7 THE ACCEPTED DREDGE DISPOSAL PLAN FOR THE KSTP PROJECT
As described earlier, the single most serious concern in this project is the dredging and
associated disposal of sediments. Due to this, the sediment quality was tested in a
laboratory recommended by the State Committee on Science Technology and Environment
(STEC). The sediments were found to be non hazardous without any serious concentration
of heavy metals.
The consultation at Vellinad Pancl7ayat (refer Chapter 8 section 8.4.1 and Exhibit 8.3)
demanded the dredge material to be used only for strengthening the Canal embankments
(locally known as bunds) on both sides of the Canal There are considerable lengtlhs of
eroded canal embankments, whichi need repair.
Lotiis Beigei Intein,itiion,iil/ Slhelacli.i A (i ,ixte/ CES/ IC I        106



Kerala State Iniland Water Transport Pilot Project                      ESAMP
7.1 COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
To make an implementable disposal plan, community consent through participation is
required. Hence the Engineers of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the PCC team
consulted a cross section of the most likely affected people. The category of people with
whom the project authorities consulted include
*  Land owners on both sides of the Kottayam Vaikom Canal at Kottayam and
Kumarakom
*  Padasekhra Committee at Kavalam
*  Land owners on both sides on the Alappuzha- Changanaserry canal.
*  Consultation of Irrigation Department officials at Alappuzha and Kottayam
The people were informed about the nature of sediments, its quality and the possible
environmental consequences.
All the four above consultation have clearly indicated that the disposal of the dredged
material in the plots of the individual farmers is acceptable to the farmers whole heartedly
provided the side walls of the Canals are protected properly. It is most particularly noted
that not even a single individual during consultation has raised any objection for the
dredge disposal in their land. It has been revealed that every individual owner of the land
needs all material deposited in his or her land only. The maximum dredge material disposal
is in the Kottayam- Vaikom Canal. In fact, every individual plot owner wanted to raise his
or her land possibly to avoid any inundation of water during monsoon season as flooding is
a usual problem In the area.
8 EVALUATION OF IMPACTS AT DISPOSAL SITE
8.1 IMPACTS AT MIXED GARDEN
Adverse Impacts: The landscape will become extremely dirty due to the colour and odour
of the sediments at least for a month period during wet season and up to one week during
dry summer season.
Favourable impacts: First of all the dredged soil material would be highly fertile and useful
to the garden plants like Cocout, Areconut and Banana. Farmers will benefit from higher
agricultural income. In addition, the farmers will receive increased protection from the
floodwaters.
8.2  IMPACT AT PADASHEKARAMS
Adverse Impacts The land will become extremely muddy and the colour and odour of the
sediments will last at least for few days before settling of the sediments in the
padashekarams. In summer season the effect in the padashekarams will be minor. The open
wells from which many families depend for water will be affected if adequate precautions
are not taken.
Favourable impacts First of all the dredged soil material would be highly fertile and useful
to the paddy cultivation to increase the agricultural production. Farmers will benefit from
higher agricultural income. The farmers will receive increased protection from the
floodwaters.
9 IMPACT MITIGATION AT DISPOSAL SITE
9.1  LAND USE OF THE DISPOSAL SITE
Kottayam -Vaikom canal: In the case of Kottayam-Vaikom canal, the land use at the
identified disposal site is the mixed gardens consisting of Coconut, Banana and other frulit
beaiing trees like mangoes and GLiava.
LO  tW 3 Beigei Iintei rhitionl,i/ Shel,idi.i A,,(( i,itej/ CES/ 1C r   1 )7



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                         ESAMP
Alapuzha-Changanassery canal: there are padashekarams near Kavalam and as well as
house plots near Changanaserry. There are few wells in the Changanaserry area.
9.2 MITIGATION FOR THE IMPACTS TO THE DISPOSAL SITE
The open wells from which many families depend for water should be protected at least for
a radial distance of l0m by constructing simple ridges made of soil or bricks and soil, so
that the slurry material will not find the way to the well water. This is applicable only for
drinking water sources. The household should be warned of the consequences and danger
of children playing in the slurry material. If not careful, this can even cause very serious
situation, as there could be pits and other depressions. If children fall in to this breathing
will be difficult and lead to undesirable situation. Hence the safety of children during the
period of disposal should be warned of to the people through a consultation process. The
PIU Environmental Officer, the Contractor and the Construction Supervision Consultants
(CSC) will ensure the consultation. PIU should have the Irrigation Department
representatives to address the issues effectively.
10 DREDGE DISPOSAL PROCESS
The process is rather simple as the disposal site is immediately close to the dredge site. The
dredger will be able to pump the dredged material directly to the disposal site through
pipes. The material needs no transportation, no drying no storing etc. The dredged material
will be in the form of 'slurry' a mixture of sediments and water.
11 WATER QUALITY
The water quality of the area is already known to be poor, especially with regard to the
faecal coli counts. The proposed waterway improvements will not produce any serious
impacts other than the disposal of human faeces and other solid wastes, polythene bags etc
from the vessels operating along the waterways.
11.1 During the Construction Phase, there would be slight disturbance due to the dredging
operations. In order to avoid large scale disturbance at a time not more than one location
per feeder canal is endorsed.
1 1.2 During the Operational phase there could be some Oil and Grease spillage. This will
be minor and can be neglected (Oil and Grease was tested for the project also). Other than
this, there will not be any significant environmental impacts.
11.3 The Project Specific Water Quality Testing And Analysis: The two major issues
Identified are:
Faecal Coliform was detected in all samples. Except at Marthandam (just 43 MPN/100 ml)
all stations recorded very high concentrations. The maximum value was observed at
Changanaserry station (4,300 MPN/1 00 ml)
The maximum concentration of Oil and Grease was detected at Alappuzha Boat jetty (of the
order of 10 mg/l). According to the Bureau of Indian standards, this is the maximum
permissible limit. In all other stations it is less than 10 mg /I.
The water quality is already seriously deteriorated especially near Alappuzha.
A comprehensive approach for the entire Kuttanad is required for effective mitigation
action. This is not within the scope of this small project, as it requires a more
comprehensive effort. There should be a joint effort of State and National governments to
clean up the pollLited waters.
LotiLW  Beigei lntetni.tion,il/ Slhel.dliai A.so( ie,ii/ CFS/ IC]           108



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Project                         ESAMP
APPENDIX S
BORROW AREAS NEAR PROJECT INFLUENCE AREA
Source Number as                                 Source Identification
SI No      Indicated in the    District      Quarry        And Rehabilitation
Geotechnical Report
1       201                   Alappuzha  Rajan Pillai - 1  Contractor
2       202                   Alappuzha   Rajan Pillai -.2  to prepare a
3       221                   Kottayam   Baby Cherian      borrow and
4       223                   Kottayam    Reji K. Cheriyan  quary         area
5       222                   Kottayam   Mr. Sattar        management
6       245                   Ernakulam  Muvattupuzha      and
7       245                   Ernakulam  Muvattupuzha     rehabilitation plan
8       210                   Ernakulam  Baby Varghese
9       229                   Ernakulam  Eramalloor
(Source: Consultants Geo-technical Report)
MATERIAL SOURCES AVAILABLE NEAR PROJECT INFLUENCE AREA
Quarry /     Location I    Production   Product     Source And
. N.    Source Name     District      Capacity    Material   Rehabilitation
Identification
1         (1) Manimala  Kottayam       9500 m3/year River Sand   Contractor
River                                                 to prepare a
2          (2) Manimala  Kottayam      6000 m3/year River Sand   borrow and
River                                                  qaurry area
3         (3) Manimala  Kottayam             15000  River Sand   management
River                            m3/year                  and
4          Charalkunnu  Pathanamthitta           - Block         rehabilitation
Sample          plan.
5         Government    Pathanamthitta      809280  Block
Sample          Sand
6         Private       Pathanamthitta      327793  Block      mining being an
Sample     environmental
7         Natural       Ernakulam                - Stone Dust issue its use is
Crusher                                              generally
Perumbara                                            prohibitted
8          Natural      Ernakulam                -6 mm
Crusher
Perumbara
9          Natural      Ernakulam            56656  Block
Crusher                                  Sample
Perumbara
(Source: Consultants Geo-technical Report)
LoLis Be!gei Inte ot1]iot1lcnal/ Slieladlia A'o( i,ites/ CE/ IC r           110



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Proiect                           FSAMP
APPENDIX T
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
Si No Parameter   Drinking water Outdoor   Drinking water Propagation Irrigation,
Source without bathing   source with   of wild life Industrial
any            organized conventional  fisheries  Cooling,
conventional             treatment                Controlled
treatment but            followed by              waste
after                    disinfection             disposal
disinfection
1   Dissolved   6             5         4              4
Oxygen
(DO) mg/I,
min
2   B.O.D. (3   2             3          3
days at 270C)
mg/I, max
3   Total       50            500        5000
coliform
organism
MPN/100
ml, max
4   pH          6.5-8.5       6.5-8.5    6-9           6 5-8.5    6-8.5
5   Free        --1.2                                            -
ammonia (as
N) mg/I, max
6   Electrical  -                                                 2250
conductivity
micromhos/c
m, max
7   Sodium     -                                                  26
absorption
ratio, max
8   Boron, mg/I,                   -                              2
max
LoLis Beiger Internationial/ Shelacia Associate</ CES/ ICT                    I1



Kerala State Inland Water Trancsport Pilot Prolect                         FSAMP
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
Time         Concentration in ambient air.
weighted     pg*/m3                         Method of
Pollutant    average      Industrial Residential  Sensitive Measurement
area      rural & other area
areas
Sulphur dioxide   Annual Av$  80        60           15      1 .Improved West and
(502)             24 hours**  120       80          30       Gacke
Method
2. Ultraviolet
fluorescence
Oxides of Nitrogen Annual Av$  80       60           15      Jacob & Hochheiser
(NO2)            24 hours**   120       80          30       modified (Na Arsenite)
Method
Gas, Phase
chemiluminescence
Suspended        Annual Av$   360       140         70       High volume sampler
particulate matter  24 hours**  500     200         100      (Average flow rate not
(SPM)                                                        less than 1.1 m3/
minute)
Respirable       Annual Av$   120       60          50       Respirable particulate
particulate matter  24 hours**  150     100         75       matter sampler
(size less than
10pm)
Lead (Pb)        Annual Av$   1.0       0.75        0.50     AAS Method after
24 hours**   1.5       1.00        0.75     sampling using EPM
2000 or equivalent
filter paper
Carbon monoxide  8 hours* *   5.0       2.0         1.0      Non dispersive
(CO), mg/m3      1 hour       10.0      4.0         2.0      infrared spectroscopy
*    Except in the case of carbon monoxide
** Annual arithmetic mean of minimum 104 measurements in a year.
These are 24 hourly measurements, taken twice a week, at uniform interval
$   24 hourly /8 hourly values should be met 98% of the time in a year
However, 2% of the time, it may exceed but not on two consecutive days.
LoMi! Beigei Iiterinational/ Shelachla Associate'/ CES/ ICT                   112



Kerala State Inland Water Transport Pilot Prorect                           FSAMP
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
NOISE QUALITY STANDARDS
_____________  .E(P) Rules, Schl: - Ilil GSR 1063 CE) dt. 26.12.89
Area Code        Category of area                Limit in dB (A), Leg
Day time             Night time
A        Industrial area               75                    70
B        Commercial area               65                   55
C        Residential area              55                   45
D        Silence zone                  50                   40
Note:
1 . Day time is reckoned in between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.
2. Night time is reckoned in between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m.
3. Silence zone is defined as areas upto 100 m around such premises as hospitals,
educational institutions and courts. The silence zones are to be declared by the
competent authority. Use of vehicular horns, loud speakers and bursting of crackers shall
be banned in this zone.
4. Mixed categories of areas should be declared as one of the four above mentioned
categories by the Competent Authority and the corresponding standards shall apply.
LotiL  Beigei Intemialotinl/ ShelicIia A,,()( tle4/ CES/ ICT                  I I



Kerala State Inland Water Tranisport Pilot Project                         ESAMP
APPENDIX U
GUIDELINES FOR PREPARAING CONTRACTORS QUARRY AND BORROW AREA
DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION MANAGEMENT PLAN
GENERAL
The Contractor is required to take quarry material only from licensed quarries. In the case of
existing quarries the contractor through the engineers representative will have to ensure that all
actions in these quarries are in accordance with the environmentally sound and acceptable
manner.
In case the contractor establishes additional quarries and dedicated crusher plants. The
Contractor will have to ensure that all actions are in accordance with the environmental
requirements.
In the case of borrow areas Contractor need to specify a detailed arrangement including the
validity with owner of the land.
PLAN REQUIRED FOR BORROW AREAS AND QUARRY AREAS.
In this case Contractor need to develop a Borrow and Quarry area management plan providing
at least the following details
1. Name, location and ownership of the borrow or Quarry area
2. Existing land use of the area (including the access road to be developed) to be quarried
3. Approximate quantity of the material available
4. The type of material available
5. The number of trees and the species of the trees to be removed
6. Total area involved
7. Arrangement with the owner
8. Whether purchased or leased
9. A statement from the owner saying the actual arrangement (not in terms of exact
monitory compensation) with him is agreeable for him.
10. The exact restoration plan indicating the number of trees that will be planted
11. The action plan for levelling and landscaping in order to bring the area in conformity to
the neighbouring land uses.
12. The access roads rehabilitation
CONDITIONS
No borrow areas shall be opened in the paddy field areas.
The various standard IRC specifications and other relevant Indian standards shall be followed
The rate will be Rs 50,000 per ha which include Rs 10,000/ for the plan itself. The payment for
the plan will be after the complete satisfaction of the Engineer.
APPROVAL REQUIRED
The entire action plan will have to be certified and approved by the Engineer (Supervision
Consultants).
Louis Beiger Interin,tional/ Shelachi,i Assoo wtes/ CES/ ICT                 114



Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
LU               fz~~~~~~~~~~~~t -
U
E  cw
0E
cu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
<         z~~~b  t                          a
(-I
U'2~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
< ~~~~~~~~~)c-
0  cu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I-                                               E
CILL    a) 
CL  -                                         0~~~~
<                                  >c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
'2
LU  _  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
2             Q)  eza)                              B 
0          C~~~~~~~~~~(' - ,                        i,a
0              U                                     a~~~~~~~~~   Uo
.) c-a 
a    a 
0                        U -0
a       o                                     L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oc
~~~~~ C      c-a                           _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
0                                               R  0 a 
~~~~* *   0  I-u.J   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -e ~~~LJM
V)                 co  m   m  no~~~~a   ca  co  co-  )   )V
U.'                          a    -      a)       1 %o
oia          CU 0                                Ln 
___                       a)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ c_- ~.a



0
In       I - TFF                      I I I TF
C,
r4
OO
<                                             fN
Ln
rq
0
0
c"
m                   C14
0                4
E                r-4
0
u
.2 IU                r4
0
u
z                 .0 'E
<                  u -0
cu -1
C:L V)
CL)
z
0                     o
ci
:---  J)
u                  fz w
u   .2
Ul) In              CN
c:
Un                    0
z
0                     u
u
0) c:V)
-o  0
z                  C) U
0                 -0  6                co
C)
CZ
0
el.         JZ-
c:
Z)          0      Z3
V)
V)
'Du     il
Z,
u                                     7           7
-0                                    C
-0 C       -o
0        c
0           0          0          0     a)    0    CL)
Ln                                                                               :3
2, t    -tz                                              o            u
-o -0                             -0 -o       -o -0                      <
0                                                Q) a)           -0    c,         lu (11      ai a)
V)                             -o   -Cy, -ay, Z,
0
CL            0             z                           MO         MD          to               C C W      c c
c:
C                        0                                    CL CL         Cm                  Q-
c      >1 m              -e  Ln CL       Ln Ln -Y    V)    -Y   V) V)
C)   C)        E               c    - f         - - c       - L2 c     -  - I     L2   IN,   12 12          Ln
u    :E        -               z    .21) -RI    E          .22 p C 3   E  W - -   SI' S., E   a 2
0               CL '3    C-L >ml r.              O- m m "I                    m m
CU Li-             - M         , -0 :              If -0 : :                                  c
c:          Z3                            -0
to        to                                     0          0                                           0
cr c:                     15 >, -a) -0                                                         -
- ? 0 0                       0 >.
u    L                               >1 >. -0  E  'D                    2 2 u E        C E                  F-
c: 0                    z-    w           cu         a)               z z   w z z    m
0                                          m m c- -u   m m    -0 ro m a' -0 m IC cr -0 m
to             Q)
Q,                 u     u Q                  2             a C(I    2 Crl 61 Lt 2 Cr a     2 Cr Cr    2 CY
Ln           -E           ai
o           D
a           D- FE           0
o      C)                             Ln
0     Ln
u      Li- UL



rqj
o       ro
U                                 U
r'4
0
C:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C:~~~~ 
LU            -~~
U..         -  _  -     -
C)C)                _~~~~~~~~
LU                 w~ r
0   V)  ~    _      _  _ __    -
..0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
O               O
o   -~~~~~  -c                 -)
CC     '-              _      - C
-n                  E
Z  ~ ~ ~ L0.
no~~~~~r
0  rq~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*                            C)
0)  -C-    7_ -    _     -
C:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.0<
Lf  a  Oflr  -o    c 
0         Lf)~.EC  C
a-  0   .  a.-z  to       rc~,    w        ~
o    '-'o  >-  c*rC:    U,             C                -
a     -an           n.---a  o~an  n..- 
U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-  ~~~-   Cn~LL          MC
o  bfl  (YC             C                        C (~
-   .~~0   ca  0.(    ,- m  .c  ,  (U  u                C 3
Du   C 7n O:3U u r  M=>  A~          c
nn  *~  c) 0                                     a'0 
(A                -   -  -   -  -  -   -Cy  C)  -    a '
a'    0   ~~~~   .E                                  4- 
U   W L L ~ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _  



>                                           co
CN
r4
r'4
0
-7
0
0
U
o
ce.               u   u
u
Ln
z
0
u
LLJ               Lr)
Cd                                  co
CL                    D
CL                    U
0
0
U                 Lri
r)                    tA
0
- .2
v-                    -       .11  r4
u       CZ
u                     =       M
0                                                                                                                   U
V)
LU
u
Y            c                                       (V        c
cu           0                      C:    0
CL           -                      D             v
0      2                0  2      cu              2     cu               2          IU
(U        >- u      ;   =   0                  zz, o      ro
ru        0            ru
6                   0     -   C:
cu   (V                   aj           C) cu    a)            (V w     w
0     -Y              -,z     0                            -Y    -Y            71                   <
to     c  C:    C:     c      MD     c u          00    C: C      C:     w     C: r_     C:
c         C:
CL  -=                     -      CL CL     CL
m LI) Lr)          LI)         u              -Y IC V) V)     Lf)    -x  m n t-n    n
-0     -                             -0
V)
Qj ru m      m                                 CL a)                     a)              10
Q)                                                                E                      E
u
cu0                              -Z, C2
0  0 T           0            0 Ln   0                      o               o      0          0
C                            U                        Ln                                         ; >- -0   0
Z-               ,    m  ?:. >,0                                  U, m,    .2:- go z-   U.  -        o
Ln              cu2                           w   2         Z-    v      z  z_-,   z     (u 2      z-               (EV
>                                                 >               c   c  >
cr D   M                                                                 w     z   D
ro r- ':',E  ':) 2  C'U                0,-
-0           E   w             0                                                                     ,, - r.   -     5
r)                      cu                                                                 u     u   Lt    cr cr 0
m     C)    :,         -   - -r Cr CY u    a      cr u   Lt -r     cr cr ii LtI    cr cr     cr                  u  C(
C:          u   C)                                                                                                               Q)
0     17                                                  u                   u                      u
CY E              u
0         0
u     Ll- U-



00
0     2~~~~~ 
z  u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- - 
0 uro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
o~~~~~~
z 
C  C -r-C
-e      <~-
Cu      0E
z           UU
LU                                            - 
0                                  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U  0-                                E                  <
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ua
t cu       to~~~~~~~~~~~- 
IV  0~~ 0EE              cC      l     eEo-
H                                            o~~~~~  u  )c 
_          -:c  - -   -:   -   a) -  -  -   - -   C    t
0  UL~~~~~J
-  LJ~~~~~~~                              0) U0-r  c
I-                               .-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~- 0--zQ
0                            cu~U0
co a  u  c  P  w  m  m  m  a          to
to ~~~~~~~~~~~~C~~  ~y               Eo 0C 
o                Cu 0D        Coa _nC C-  C>
a)  af        o  m  u~C  CD  Caa ) C     t  '- 
-~~~~~~  ~   e  U~~r U                  U0)Z0 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
--  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0)     -~~~~~~~~~t
0  c,              CDu,'Jc          -lc  ,c  t-4  .-  o.
ai    0                 0- tN          4r  r4r  rn   0      0
!,,-I  2~~~~ u  I   I                 u  ~ 0       0



Kprala StatP Inlancd Water Tranmport Pilot ProlPrt                           FSAMP
APPENDIX V
C2: BORROW AREA IDENTIFICATION
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction Stage Report - Date ......... ...... Month.  ... Year.
Site Layout of Borrow Area and Proposed Borrow Area Re-development
Plan to be attached with format
Format to be submitted before target date as (decided by PD) for establishing Quarries Borrow
Area no. BA
Location of Borrow Area (KM) ............ Package...........
SI. No.  Item                       Unit           Details      Remarks by SC
Date of Borrow Area
becoming operational
dd/mm/yy
Current Land use
No of settlements within
500m of Borrow Area         nos
Total Capacity              cum
No of Trees with girth more  nos
than 0.3 cms
Length of Haul Road         km
Width of Haul road          m
Type of Haul Road           metal/dirt
No of settlements within
200m of Haul Road           nos
Size of Borrow Area         sqkm
Area of Borrow Area         km x km
Quantity Available          cum
Dist of Nearest Water Source  Type / Size/
Capacity/
Present Use/
Ownership
Quantity of top soil removed  cum
Details of storage of topsoil
Certified that the furnished information is correct and all relevant information as required is
attached
Project Engineer                                    (Contractor)
(Supervision Consultant)
LOLIP4 Beigei Ilitei notioni.l/ Shiei,id.o As;ociate4 CESI/ ICT               120



Kerala SlAtP Inhncl W   gpe r Trtncrr Pilot Prolect                        FEAMP
C3: QUARRY SOURCE IDENTIFICATION
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction Stage Report - Date ........ Month  ..   .. Year....
Site Layout of Quarry and Proposed Quarry Re-development Plan to be attached with format
Format to be submitted before target date quarries as (decided by the PD) for establishing
Quarry no.
Location of Quarry (Km)      Package
Si No   Item                     Unit            Details          Remarks By SC
Location                Ch
License no
License Valid till      Date
Size of Quarry          m xm
Area of Quarry          Km x km
Quantity Available      Cum
Total Capacity          Cum
No of Settlements within
500m of QuarryNo
Width of Haul road      M
Type of Haul Road       Metalled/dirt
Length of Haul Road     Sqkm
No of Settlements within  Nm
500m of Haul Road         ame
Distance from Nearest   Type/Distance
W ater Source                            _____________
Whether Crusher Plant   Yes/No
located on Site          e_o
Certified that the furnished information is correct and all relevant information as required is
attached
Project Engineer                                    Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
LoLtIw Beigei Inteminational! Slhelodia A l-cile/ CES/ICT                    121



Ker?la ;State inl nr- W?tPr Tr.iiisAort PilAt ProJect                       FSAMP
C4: SITE IDENTIFICATION AND SETTING UP OF WORKERS CAMP, CONCRETE MIXING
PLANT
(Reporting by Contractor PIU after certification by SC)
Construction Stage Report: Date .Month .........Year...... .....
(Site Layout of Construction camp and working drawings of dwelling units with allied facilities
to be attached with format)
Format to be submitted before target date (decided by PP) of establishing camps as
Camp no. WC
Location of Camp (km       Package
SI. Item                       Unit                       Details   Remarks by
No                                                                  SC, if any
1   Detail of item camp       Mxm
a   Size of Camp              Sq.m
b   Area of Camp
c   Distance from Nearest     Type/Size/ Capacity/Present/
____  Settlement                Use/ Ownership
d   Distance from Nearest
Water Source
Date of camp bellowing
operational dd/mm/yy
Present land use
No other trees with
girth> 0.3m
2   Details of top soil stacking
a   Quantity of top soil      Sqm
removed
b   Detail of storage of topsoil  Describe stackling
arrangement
3   Details of workforce
a   Total No of Labourers     Nos
b   Total no of Male Workers  Nos
c   No of male Workers below  Nos
18 years of age
d   Total no of Female workers  Nos
e   No of Female workers      Nos
below 18 years of age
f   No of children            Nos
4   Details of dwelling units
a   Nooof dwellings           Nos
b   Minimum size of dwelling  Mxm
c   No of openings per        Nos
dwelling
d   Minimum size of opening   Nos
e   Walls                     Specifications
f   Roofing                   Specifications
g   Flooring                  Specifications
h   Drinking water tank       Specifications
Capacity of Drinking water  CLII
tank                      Cu_
LoMiii  Bergei Iiitei nationIl/ Shielodii. ASco( wi.te,/ CES/ ICT            i



Kerala State Inliorl Water Transport Pilot Project                          FrAMP
J   Size of drinking water tank  Mxmxm
k   Total no of WC            Nos
I   No of Wcs for female      Nos
workers
m   Minimum size of WC         Mxm
n   Total No of Bathrooms for  Nos
female workers
o   Size of septic tank for WCs/  Mxmxm
Baths
p   Capacity of Water Tank for
WCs/ Bathrooms and
general purpose
q   Fencing around camp       Y/N
5   Details of facilities
a   Availability of security  Yes/ No
guard 24 hrs a day
b   Details of First Aid Facility  Yes/ No
c   Availability of Day Care  Yes/ No
Centre
Certified that the furnished information is correct the quality of work is as per god practice and
all relevant information as required is attached
Project Engineer                                           Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
LotiLW Bei gei Intem oational/ Shelacha Auoci,&e'/ CES/ [CT                    1 23



KpralA Statp Inl[l?l Water Trlzispnrt Pilot Proir'ct                       FSAMP
C5: POLLUTION MONITORING FOR AIR, WATER AND NOISE
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction Stage: Monthly Report - Date ...  ..... Month . .. Year.
(Location at which monitoring to be conducted as per EMP)
SI  Chainage   Details of  Duration of  Instruments  Target     Completion Target
No              Location  Monitoring   Used          Date    Date of       Reason
Completion of  for Delay
task           if any
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ com pleted
Air Monitoring            l
_
4
Water Monitorin _                                                                L
Noise Monitorin
5 
Certified that the Pollution Monitoring has been conducted at all the locations specified in the
EMP and as per the directions of the SC
Project Engineer                                          Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
Lo      Be: gel Intem nationml/ Shielaclra Aios ii-/ CES/ ICT                 1 24



Keral, State Inland W;itr Trasmport Pilot Prnject                         FSAMP
C6: HYGIENE REPORTING AT CONSTRUCTION CAMPS AND LABOUR CAMPS
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction Stage: Monthly Report - Date .. .. .. Month ..  Year...
SI.No.  Item                   Unit             Quantity        Remarks
1    Total No of WCs
2     No of WCs Functioning                                 .
3     No of Bathrooms
functioning
4    Water Tank cleaned
5     First Aid Facilities
Available
6     Emergency Vehicle
available & functioning
7    Camp visit by           No of times
Doctor/month
8    Accident occurred, if any  Details to be
given
9     Measures taken         Details to be
_given
10    Security available 24 hrs  Yes/ No
I daily
11    Water logging if any in  Yes/ No
Camp
12   If yes, measures taken
Certified that the furnished information is correct and all relevant information as required is
attached
Project Engineer                                         Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
I uill Beigei Inter rintiona.l/ Shielo.dw Al i ,.te/ CFS/ ICT                125



Kprala State Inland Watpr TrAllsport Pilot Project                          FSAMP
C7: WATER REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction Stage: Monthly Report - Date .. ...... Month .Year
Frequency and Quantity of Sprinkling of Water on Haul Road to be decided by SC after
Inspection of Condition of Haul Road
Si    Source (Name)         Location /Ch  Distance from  Water Drawn  Remarks
No                                        NH            mcm/ day
1     Rivers
2     Streams
3     Ponds                      .
4     Other source/tankers
Total Water Used
Certified that the above information is correct
Project Engineer                                          Contractor
Lotiis Beigeit Inte tiolld/ Shel,icho A,r)( i,ite/ CESt ICI                    1 26



Keril;i State Inland Water Transport Pilot Prnlect                         FSAMP
C12: ENHANCEMENT AND MITIGATION OF NEW JETTIES AND TERMINAL FACILITIES AT
KOTTAYAM AND CHANGANASSERY
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction Stage: Monthly Report - Date .Month            Year.
SI.No  Location (Ch)   Side (N/S) and               Completion Target
Enhanced     Distance from CW
(in)
Target Date     Date of      Reason for
Completion if  delay if any
task completed
Certified that the mitigation/ enhancement works have been completed as specified and as per
prevalent good construction practices
Project Engineer                                         Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
L.OiWs Beigeti Ioili notioaol/ Shelodia ANso( wte-/ CES/ IC r                1 27



Kerala State IOlltd Water Transport Pilot Project                          FSAMP
C13: REDEVELOPMENT OF BORROW AREAS
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction stage: Monthly Report - Date . Month .     Year
Reporting by Contractor to PIU in Operation Period
Drawing for Redevelopment to be attached for each Borrow Area
Sl.No   Quarry Code No      Description of Redevelopment, if any/  Remarks by SC
Confirmation to existing Redevelopment Plan
Certified that the furnished information is correct
Project Engineer                                          Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
Lomi, Bei gei Intem .itiooll./ Shelalh AA-o ite4/ CES/ 1tVr                  128



Kerala State Inland Water Transprt Pilot Prnyert                          FSAMP
C14: REDEVELOPMENT OF QUARRY AREAS
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction stage: Monthly Report - Date . Month    .. Year
Reporting by Contractor to PIU in Operation Period
Drawing for Redevelopment to be attached in case Quarrying has been done at site which did
not have redevelopment plan
Sl.No   Quarry Code No      Description of Redevelopment, if any/  Remarks by SC
Confirmation to existing Redevelopment Plan
Certified that the furnished information is correct
Project Engineer                                         Contractor
(Supervision Consultant)
LoLiH. Beigei Intemioliinil/ Sheladim A",;oeI. CES/ ICT                      I 29



KPraa StatP IrlAi3ld Watter Transport Pilot ProJect                         FSAMP
C15: RESTRORATION OF CONSTRUCTION SITES
(Reporting by Contractor to SC)
Construction stage: Monthly Report - Date . Month .     Year.
Reporting by Contractor to PIU in Operation Period
SI.   Item                              Location  Unit    Volume of       Remarks
No                                      (km)      (cum)   Topsoil Restored  by SC
(cum)
1     Restoring top soil at diversions
a
-b
c
2     Restoring of topsoil at Workers Camp
a
b
c
-d
3     Restoring of topsoil at Construction
yard and disposal of spoil
a
b
c
Certified that the mitigation/enhancement works have been completed as specified and as per
prevalent good construction practices
Project Engineer                                          Contractor
LutOLH   Beigei ,iot-lu.uiln,lI/ Shieladh,i A-.m  wite'/ CES/ IC             1 30



-100mm THICK RCC
-MAN HOLE COVER       150mm RCC SLAB (M20)                      RCC RING                         SLAB (M15)
VENT PIPE        (15cm THICK)                                        450
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                             G L 
-                                           LAO~~~~ER      RCCSOEWA -                                           GL
200  Iii---                   -     -  -    -   - -    _ -                       5
/                                                                                            4000mm PC 4  900RCBAE-2  DIA5\I
P MC WATER BAR               bECTION    ON   AB 
INETFRM  OIETSCALE 1 50BRICKBATS OR
INLET FROM TOILET                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BROKEN STONES
\9000                                                 CIRC L-\R   SO.RK  PITIA FILLED   \VITH
WATER BAR                               _BICKBATS                                                     OR  BROKEN    STONES
INE FROM            7    F  - TOILET- SCAEALE                                                                                BAT O
7F -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCALE 1 50
Boo                                        CI HEAVY DUTY    A       ULE 
M t  XAN HOLE COVER     OUTLET TO SOAK PIT
VALVE                  |   BAFFLE WALL                                                  NOTEI
WITH OPENINGS                                                NOTE -
(1) ALL DMENSION ARE IN MM
_ _< L  -  -  -  -  -   -  11 _ -  -  -  -  -                       (2) TYPICAL DRAWNG FOR 200 PERSONS
(3) IT MAY BE CHANGE0 ACCORDING TO SITE CONDITIONS
INET FROM BOAT             PLAN
(WTH SUITABLE PUMPING SYSTEM)   SCALE 1 50
TL OF SEPTIC TANK                            TL OF SOAK PIT
GROUND LEVEL
HFL                                   S('0IIONAL    ELEV\IION
SCALE 1 50
O-_11 511   V1051  Ii. (LIII.  N1 ) SEI'ric  lA'h   DRAW| I GfO.
&a-s _.E.6rla __TE                                                                              KIIII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  h.  I'C5~  I1  l   AN11 Al 
Ocs1o ;OAMALCS lc9 ~..I~   _                         07090=      CUOCA      SCALE '-  ^               KERALA STATE TRANSPORT PROJECT r1YT /01
.1.4*,.C SCc,._E,.C sTIj,SCC65 (,C>CH'°C'A'S            -    DAMARAJAN C D '               ASTSN0    N    rP-l  t  PLALI WOS QCNEPAAR^TMhCN  _&-  _
,-IAc,r,NA                                                                                              P  3L1!AA&'CWAP.  ORK -S O CPA0UAAO N,I ASsAe



~~~~~~1500- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~L 05.
PLAN                                             SECTION' A-A
SCALE 1 50                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCALE 1 50
PLNSCALE 1 50
35
120
DETAIL - X
SCALE 1 10
SCALE 1 I
DEl  -. . 1111 UEl l1l\  (.IIAl \IAI  C EL L
Lo~,s SERCER ,REERliOKOAAL                                   ..... 0.0..0S  KERALASTATETRANSPORTPOROJECTT fW /02
CCC)1100 (oC[RILR,NC SERICtISl_t__  _ ,  _  _ ;  =  O <   |  AS S N .0  _ B R    CERWNA9EN  C ERALA  lCOlA   j _   _



DIKI /BUNKS
DRAINAGE DITCH
(CASE-I)
PROJECT WATER WAY                                                                         (GENERAL)
I j ////// t-[_         OPENING TO DITCH
DREDGING PIPE                               |
DREDGER                                                T                             DrrCH
I Lfi
TYPICAL CONFINED DISPOSAL SITE SCHEMATIC
/PROJECT WATERWAWY
(CASE-11)
(KUTTANAD PLANTATION)
_0/A                  c   %         E
TYPICAL   CROSS-SECTION       OF DISPOSAL      SITES      _  -
1'1't.N  llt  tl' 1 ,r'>   (1  [)tINFD
"A                         TE5saTOesAL  Ins          L V       #      W ........... I t 2O  """  I'"........................ KERALA STATE TRANSPORT PROJECT t
COAT , WSuLTTS &TCR"OCEAAS E la t =   _~+ 3d    G AULARA  LNOT To SCA1   _            GDvERNUENT os bCRALA T D,A[BT   -



