Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4653-IN
Project Agreement
(Kerala State Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF KERALA
Dated May 6, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4653-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF KERALA, acting by 
its Governor (Kerala).
Page  2
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India (the Borrower) 
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to two 
hundred and fifty five million dollars ($255,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Kerala agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Kerala, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in 
the Loan Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kerala declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project, through the Public Works Department, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
transport, rehabilitation and resettlement, and environmental and social practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except 
as the Bank and Kerala shall otherwise agree, Kerala shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Project 
Implementation Plan, the Environmental Management Plans, the Environmental and Social 
Management Plan, the Resettlement Action Plan, the Environment and Social Assessment 
Management Plan, and the Finance Manual.
(c)
Kerala shall make available, in a timely manner, to the Public Works Department 
sufficient funds, in necessary and appropriate amounts, to ensure effective implementation of the 
Project.  Such funds shall include proceeds of the Loan made available to Kerala by the 
Borrower and any additional funds from Kerala’s own resources required for carrying out the 
Project, and such funds shall be made available in accordance with the procedures specified in 
the Finance Manual.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services, required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Kerala shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
Page  3
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, Kerala shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
Kerala, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with Kerala 
on such plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Kerala shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank 
on the progress of the Project, the performance of Kerala’s obligations under this Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Kerala shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by Kerala of its obligations under this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Kerala shall establish and, thereafter, maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project of the departments or agencies of Kerala 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Kerala shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
Fiscal Year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information, as the Bank may reasonably 
request from time to time, concerning such records, accounts and 
financial statements, and the audit thereof, and the auditors who 
performed the audit.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Kerala shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 in 
order to enable Kerala, not later than March 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, 
to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report, and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  5
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end 
of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, Kerala shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Kerala thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Kerala thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Kerala:
Principal Secretary to the Government of Kerala
Public Works Department
Government of Kerala
Secretariat
Thiruvananthapuram 695001 
Kerala, India
Facsimile:
91-471-327285
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Kerala may be taken or executed by 
its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Kerala shall designate in writing, and 
Kerala shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF KERALA
By /s/ Babu Jacob
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for contracts for works under Parts A.1 and A.2 and Part B.1 of the Project shall 
Page  8
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall include 
the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works 
referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Page  9
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank: (a) works 
under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $56,400,000 equivalent; and (b) goods, including computer 
hardware and software, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,150,000 equivalent.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Three Quotations/Direct Contracting/Force Account - Works
Works, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,290,000 equivalent, related to: (a) shifting of utilities under 
Part A.1 of the Project; (b) improvement of accident black spots under Part C.2 of the Project; 
and (c) environmental mitigation and related measures under the Project , may be procured 
according to the following procedures.
(i)
Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
(ii)
With the Bank’s prior agreement, under direct contracting in accordance 
with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate 
amount not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
(iii)
If the proposed contracts meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, they may be carried out, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  10
said paragraph of the Guidelines, up 
to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
4.
Direct Contracting - Goods
Remote sensing maps required for Part D-1 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount of 
not more than $200,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines from the National Remote 
Sensing Agency.
5.
Commercial Practices
Works and goods required for implementation of Part A.3 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $5000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$15,400,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with commercial practices, acceptable 
to the Bank.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to: (i) each contract for civil works under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project; (ii) each 
contract for civil works under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or 
more, procured under Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost more than $200,000 equivalent.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedure set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section II.
Page  11
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for supervising construction of civil works under Part B.1 of the Project, 
estimated to cost $1,620,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection/Individual Consultants
Services for studies relating to the condition of road networks and traffic under Parts C.1 
and C.3 of the Project, estimated to cost $600,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured through a contract awarded either: (i) through single source 
selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines or (ii) to an individual consultant in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  12
3.
Individual Consultants
Services related to: (i) performance-based maintenance works for state highways under 
Part B.1 of the Project, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent in the aggregate; (ii) monitoring 
and evaluation under Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate; and (iii) the audit of procurement relating to the Resettlement Action Plan under Part 
C.5 of Section I of this Schedule 1, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent, all of which meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 equivalent or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
General
1.
Kerala shall ensure that no proceeds of the Loan shall be used to finance the carrying out 
of civil works under Parts A and B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement of the Project in 
connection with roads or canals not included in the Project Implementation Plan, unless and until 
Kerala has submitted to the Bank documentation satisfactory to the Bank for undertaking civil 
works for such roads and canals, including without limitation and as may be appropriate and 
necessary, a feasibility study report, relevant environmental management and social plans and a 
resettlement action plan.
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.
Kerala shall maintain the Empowered Committee, the Project Steering Committee and 
the Tender Evaluation Committee during the period of Project implementation, each with 
composition, powers, functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Kerala shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the Project Management Team, 
with such necessary persons as agreed with the Bank.
4.
Kerala shall take all such measures as may be necessary or advisable in order for the 
Project Management Team to manage the activities to be carried out under the Project, including 
civil works, construction and maintenance.
5.
Kerala shall: (i) maintain, until completion of the Project, a financial controller and a 
finance manager for the Project, each of whom shall have qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) maintain until completion of the Project, an accounts supervisor 
for each division of the Public Works Department participating in the Project with such 
experience and qualifications as agreed with the Bank.
6.
Kerala shall maintain throughout the period of Project implementation: (i) an 
Environment and Social Management Cell within the Public Works Department, which shall be 
operated in coordination and in consultation with the Irrigation Department, to oversee 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plans, the Environmental and Social 
Management Plan, the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environment and Social Assessment 
Management Plan, (ii) a District-Level Grievance Redress Committee and a District-Level 
Resettlement Committee in each district of Kerala in which the Project is to be carried out, and 
each of such entities shall have a composition and such powers, functions and resources as 
agreed with the Bank.
7.
Kerala shall establish and operate by not later than August 31, 2002 and maintain 
throughout the Project implementation period, a computerized Financial Management System for 
the Project satisfactory to the Bank.
8.
Kerala shall cause the Project Management Team to: (a) maintain throughout the period 
of Project implementation a separate bank account for Project funds in a commercial bank; and 
(b) maintain throughout the period of Project implementation separate records and books of 
Page  14
accounts for such funds.
Institutional Strengthening and Reform of the Public Works Department
9.
Kerala shall complete a comprehensive review of the Public Works Department manuals 
and codes, and give effect to such revisions, as may be necessary and appropriate, to these 
documents by no later than December 31, 2004.
10.
Kerala shall, in consultation with the Bank, complete an assessment of the existing 
organizational structure of the Public Works Department and shall use its best efforts to give 
effect to any revisions to such structure by no later than December 31, 2004, and Kerala shall 
furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of 
each year following the Effective Date until December 31, 2004, or such later date agreed with 
the Bank, indicating the progress being made in relation to such assessment of, and any such 
revisions to, the organizational structure of the Public Works Department.
11.
Without prejudice to its obligations under paragraph 7 of this Schedule 2, Kerala shall 
establish, operate, and, thereafter, shall maintain a computerized Financial Management System 
for the entire Public Works Department organization by not later than December 31, 2004.
Surveys and Data Collection
12.
Following the Effective Date of the Project, Kerala shall: (i) by no later than December 
31 of each year, or such later date agreed with the Bank, until completion of the Project, conduct 
annual road condition and traffic surveys on state highways with methodology and content as 
agreed with the Bank; and (ii) by March 31 of the following year, or by such later date agreed 
with the Bank, provide a report of such surveys to the Bank.
13.
Kerala shall, by no later than December 31, 2004, establish a modern road information 
and maintenance management system that will result in better data collection of road inventory, 
investment priorities and project management.
14.
Kerala shall: (i) conduct at least three times during the period of Project implementation 
a
road user survey, with methodology and content as agreed with the Bank, to assess road users’ 
satisfaction with the Public Works Department’s performance in maintaining and operating the 
road network, to assess opinions regarding current and potential sector targets and to make 
comparisons with attitudes expressed in previous surveys; and (ii) furnish to the Bank a report of 
the first such survey by no later than three months following the Effective Date, a report of the 
second such survey by December 31, 2004 and a report of the third such survey by June 30, 
2007.
Environment and Social Management
15.
Kerala shall implement, in a satisfactory manner, the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring, institutional strengthening and other measures set forth in the Environmental 
Management Plans, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, and the Environment and 
Social Assessment Management Plan in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, 
time schedule and other provisions set forth therein and shall not take any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such implementation.
Page  15
16.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph 15 of this Schedule 2, Kerala 
shall:
(a)
refrain from commencing, or taking any action relating to Part A.2 of the Project 
prior to furnishing to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to mitigate the adverse 
environmental and social impact arising out of or relating to implementation of Part A.2 of the 
Project;
(b)
maintain procedures, acceptable to the Bank, that are adequate to enable Kerala 
to monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis during the period of Project implementation and 
for two years following the Closing Date, the implementation of the Environmental Management 
Plans, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, and the Environment and Social 
Assessment Management Plan and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(c)
furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on March 31, June 30, September 30 and 
December 31 of each year during the period of Project implementation and for a period of two 
years following the Closing Date, each such report to incorporate the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced to the 
Environmental Management Plans, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, and the 
Environment and Social Assessment Management Plan to achieve their objectives;
(d)
in relation to those sections of state roads included in Part A.1 of the Project for 
which detailed environmental studies have not been completed or finalized as of December 2001: 
(i) refrain from inviting bids for road construction and improvement relating to such sections of 
state roads, or (ii) if no bidding process is involved, refrain from selecting a contractor for works 
on such sections of state roads in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, unless Kerala has submitted to the Bank environmental assessment reports, 
environmental management plans and environment and social assessment management plans, all 
of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank ; and
(e)
ensure that: (i) all necessary environmental and forestry clearances for all 
sections of state roads and canals included in the Project are obtained from relevant government 
authorities; (ii) copies of such clearances are submitted to the Bank before contracts for works 
for the relevant sections of the roads and canals are awarded; and (iii) all conditions imposed by 
the relevant governmental authorities under such clearances are complied with.
Resettlement Action Plan
17.
Kerala shall implement the resettlement and rehabilitation of the persons affected by the 
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Resettlement Action Plan and with the 
objectives, policies, procedures and time schedule set forth therein and shall not take any action 
that would prevent or interfere with such implementation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
18.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph 17 of this Schedule 2, Kerala 
shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank any revisions proposed to be introduced to the Resettlement 
Action Plan in order to achieve its objectives and, thereafter, introduce such revisions to the 
Resettlement Action Plan as shall have been agreed with the Bank;
Page  16
(b)
in relation to those sections of state roads included in Parts A.1, B.1 and C.2 of 
the Project which have not been covered by the Resettlement Action Plan:  (i) refrain from 
inviting bids for road construction and improvement relating to such sections of state roads; or 
(ii) if no bidding process is involved, refrain from selecting a contractor for works on such 
sections of state roads in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless 
Kerala has submitted to the Bank updates or amendments to the Resettlement Action Plan, which 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth, details regarding resettlement of persons affected 
by the Project in such sections of state roads;
(c)
maintain procedures, acceptable to the Bank, that are adequate to enable Kerala 
to monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis, the implementation of the Resettlement Action 
Plan and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(d)
furnish to the Bank during the period of Project implementation until completion 
of the Project monthly reports prepared by Project Management Team, on the results of such 
activities during the period preceding the date of said report;
(e)
furnish to the Bank during the period of Project Implementation until completion 
of the Project, quarterly reports prepared by an independent monitoring entity acceptable to the 
Bank, on the implementation and results of the resettlement activities for the corresponding 
monthly periods referred to under sub-paragraph (d) above; and
(f)
take appropriate action to ensure that separate bank accounts are opened with 
commercial banks for making necessary payments in connection with implementation of the 
Resettlement Action Plan.
Allocation of Resources to Road Sector
19.
(a)
Subject to state budgetary planning and approval processes, Kerala shall, 
commencing FY 2002-03 through the period of Project implementation, take appropriate and 
necessary action to ensure that sufficient allocations are made for annual maintenance 
expenditures for the state road sector during each Fiscal Year.
(b)
For each Fiscal Year commencing FY 2003-2004, until completion of the 
Project, Kerala shall transmit to the Bank a copy of its approved annual capital and maintenance 
allocations for the road sector for such Fiscal Year within thirty days following approval of the 
state budget. 
Internal Audit
20.
Without prejudice to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, Kerala shall maintain a firm of 
chartered accountants until the Closing Date, with terms of reference and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank, for internal audit purposes, to assess and review, among other things, 
internal control mechanisms and procurement procedures relating to the implementation of the 
Project. 
21.
In consultation with the Bank, Kerala shall take appropriate measures to implement any 
recommendations made pursuant to such assessment and review.
Page  17
Review
22.
Kerala shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, by December 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 27, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
