Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  09/29/2009 
Report No.:  AC4717
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  India 
Project ID:  P072539 
Project Name:  Kerala State Transport Project 
Task Team Leader:  Arnab Bandyopadhyay 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 19, 
2001 
Estimated Board Date: March 14, 2002 
Managing Unit:  SASDT 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Roads and highways (35%);Sub-national government administration 
(35%);Ports, waterways and shipping (30%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (50%);Municipal governance and institution building 
(50%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
255.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
81.00
81.00 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project Development Objective remains the same as originally stated i.e. to improve 
traffic flow and road safety on Kerala state#s primary road network, and to strengthen the 
institutional and financial capacity of Kerala#s key transport sector agencies.   
 
The revised outcome indicators would be (a) reduction in vehicle operating costs and 
travel time by 20 percent on the approximately 1,450 Km of roads to be upgraded and 
receive periodic maintenance under the project, and (b) reduction in the international 
roughness index (IRI) to 4.5 m / Km on approximately 250 km road to be upgraded by 
end of the project and (c) increase in portion of state highways in good condition by at 
least 46% by end of the project. The other development indicators related to road safety 
and institutional strengthening remain the same as originally envisaged in the Project 
Appraisal Document.   
 
Page  2
3. Project Description 
The Project has 4 components namely  a) Transport Corridor Improvements, b) Periodic 
Maintenance Program, c) Road Safety Program and d) Institutional Strengthening 
Component.  
 
The component 1 of the project, the corridor improvement component envisaged 
strengthening and widening of about 581 kms of state#s primary road network. These 
works were proposed to be taken up in two phases, Phase I comprising about 254 km and 
Phase II comprising 327 km. There has been a substantial increase in the likely cost of 
completion for the civil works for Phase I of corridor improvement component due to 
time and cost overruns.  This left only about US $ 30 million of loan for taking up the 
Phase II (about 327 km) corridor improvement works, which was grossly inadequate for 
taking up even one of the three contracts under the Phase II improvement works. 
Accordingly, on May 07, 2008 Government of Kerala (GOK) had taken a decision 
(endorsed by the state cabinet) to exclude the Phase II works (about 327 km out of the 
total scope of about 581 km) from the scope of the project. On the other hand, GOK, 
Government of India (GOI) and the Bank agreed to utilize the uncommitted loan amount 
of US$ 30 million for procuring about 200 km of additional maintenance works. The 
procurement for these additional maintenance works has also been completed now and 
the works are under implementation. The project needs to be formally restructured to 
accommodate exclusion of the Phase II corridor improvement works (about 327 km) and 
inclusion of additional periodic maintenance works.  
 
The proposed changes, involving modifications in project outcome indicator targets, 
would constitute a first order project restructuring. The restructuring is aimed towards 
partially mitigating the loss of time and cost savings benefits arising from exclusion of 
the Phase II corridor improvement works. Moreover, through the proposed restructuring, 
the project development impact could be extended by bringing in additional 200 km of 
primary road network under improved periodic maintenance and safety management 
framework.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project roads are located throughout the state of Kerala. The pilot waterways are in 
the south-west. Kerala is characterized by a variety of water regimes - rivers, backwaters, 
lakes and ponds - and receives heavy rainfall during its six monsoon months. The road 
corridors and the pilot waterways traverse through a number of human settlements and 
some cultural / religious / tourist locations and do not pass through national parks / 
wildlife sanctuaries / reserved forests. The area is densely populated.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Sonia Chand Sandhu (SASDI) 
Mr Sankaran Vaideeswaran (SASDI) 
Ms Sangeeta Kumari (SASDI) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project had been designed to cause minimal environmental and social impacts. These 
impacts were reversible and are being fully managed during implementation. The 
environmental impacts included: (a) loss of roadside trees for which a comprehensive tree 
plantation plan had been prepared and is being implemented; (b) temporary land use 
changes due to the location of construction camps and withdrawing borrow material; (c) 
drainage and flooding in selected stretches along roadside towns; (d) possible impacts on 
cultural properties along the road side for which enhancement plans had been proposed 
and are under implementation; (e) construction safety both in the camp sites and along 
the ROW;  
 
The social impacts included: loss of land, assets and livelihood due to widening of the 
existing project roads and reconstruction of bridges under road up gradation and IWT 
components of the project. In total approximately 30665 Families are being affected and 
132.5 hectares of land is being acquired. Out of total affected 68% are titleholders and 
22% are permanently displaced families.  
 
The proposed restructuring does not raise the environmental category of the project. In 
fact, as the scope of the project is reduced, the environmental and social impacts are 
commensurately less. However, the classification remains as Category A under the 
Bank#s OP 4.01. There are no new environmental safeguard policies triggered. The 
existing Environmental & Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the periodic 
maintenance works has been updated to reflect inclusion of the 200 km additional 
periodic maintenance works.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no potential indirect or and / or long-term environmental impacts due to the 
project.  
 
Page  4
Following two critical reputational risks were identified in GoK continuing with LA and 
R&R activities for Phase II roads. The mitigation measures agreed are detailed against 
each risk.  
 
a) 
Potential differential treatment of PAPs for remaining Phase II roads after 
withdrawal of the Bank loan assistance.:   Land acquisition process has been completed 
for more than 88% of 327 km for Phase II staggered across the packages and villages. 
Government of Kerala would continue to finance the remaining land acquisition and 
resettlement and rehabilitation works for Phase II works beyond December 2008 utilizing 
their own resources following the framework of the agreed Resettlement Action Plan for 
the Project. The state Government would explore alternate financing resources for 
implementation of the Phase II works.  
 
b) 
Possible encroachment of land already acquired for Phase II works pending 
commencement of civil works.  The state in consultation with the Bank has already 
developed and started implementing a plan to deter any potential re-encroachment of the 
land already acquired for Phase II.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
During the detailed feasibility study and the EA and SA process, several alternatives were 
considered for all the project roads including for the widening component and the 
waterways as well. The criteria for choosing the final option were a composite of the 
following factors: minimizing R&R activity, reducing tree cutting, reducing loss of arable 
land, minimize vehicle operating cost and travel time, and reducing conflicts between 
through traffic and local activity. The above was assessed based on the EA and SA 
including public consultation prior to finalizing the project design.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To assess and mitigate against adverse environmental impacts of the project, GOK had 
prepared a Sectoral Environment Assessment (SEA) for the project and EIA/EMPs for all 
the individual upgradation roads, Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for 
the rehabilitation and maintenance works, and an ESAMP / Implementation Plan for the 
IWT component. Further, since the project was classified as a Category "A" project, 
GOK had engaged an independent consultant to review and where appropriate, strengthen 
these documents. The various environmental plans formed an integral part of the 
respective construction bids / contracts. All of these documents were consistent with the 
Bank's and GOI's environmental assessment policies and requirements, and are under 
implementation. In the PMU, an officer of the rank of the Assistant Executive Engineer 
has been coordinating the implementation of the various environmental plans. Project 
field engineers, Environmental engineers and specialists in the contractors, supervision 
consultants and technical audit consultants are implementing / supporting the 
implementation of the environmental plans.  
 
Social assessment was carried out for the project and Resettlement and Resettlement 
Action Plan was prepared for both Phase1 and Phase II of road upgradation component 
Page  5
and Environmental and social Management Plan was prepared for the road maintenance 
and waterways component of the project. Land acquisition and R&R activities for Phase I 
has been completed as per the project#s R&R policy. Whereas the progress of LA and 
R&R for Phase II and Land Acquisition has reached 88% and the disbursement of R&R 
entitlements is 70%. Social impacts screening of additional 200km of maintenance roads 
has also been completed and no social impacts was identified.  
 
Overall implementation of social safeguards is satisfactory in the project. The 
institutional capacity of GoK as demonstrated in the implementation so far is sufficient to 
implement the mitigation measures.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
At the very outset and as a part of the EA and SA process, three scoping workshops were 
done to collect public / stakeholder feedback on the project design. Through the EA and 
SA process, extensive district and local level consultation with different social groups, 
district administration, NGOs and other interested groups were conducted. Further, the 
project authority organized various discussions and consultations with different social 
groups and stakeholders at district and state level. The views of the stakeholders have 
been incorporated to facilitate the minimization of negative impact, and to enhance the 
benefits through the design and preparation. A series of follow-on consultations were also 
conducted after the commencement of project implementation.  
 
The key stakeholders in the project are Project affected families and communities along 
project road. The project intends to continue with the consultation framework agreed as 
per RAP and encroachment protection action plan.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/09/2001 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/20/2001 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/19/2003 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
11/07/2001  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/09/2001 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/20/2001 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/15/2001 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Page  6
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Arnab Bandyopadhyay 
09/11/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Sonia Chand Sandhu 
09/11/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Sangeeta Kumari 
09/11/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Sankaran Vaideeswaran 
09/11/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
09/14/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Michel Audige 
09/11/2009 
Comments:   
