Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4653-IN
Loan Agreement
(Kerala State Transport Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 6, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4653-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 2002, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Kerala (Kerala) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and as part of such assistance, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Kerala, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Kerala (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“District-Level Grievance Redress Committee” means a District-Level 
Grievance Redress Committee to be established and, thereafter, maintained for each district of 
Kerala in which the Project is to be carried out for addressing the grievances of the people 
arising directly out of or in connection with Project implementation in the district;
(b)
“District-Level Resettlement Committee” means a District-Level Resettlement 
Committee to be established and, thereafter, maintained for each district of Kerala in which the 
Project is to be carried out in order to assist with implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan 
(as such term is hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Empowered Committee” means the Empowered Committee established by 
Kerala to monitor project preparation, oversee implementation of policy issues associated with 
the Project, ensure inter-department and inter-agency coordination and implementation of the 
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined);
Page  3
(f)
“Environmental and Social Management Cell” means the Environmental and 
Social Management Cell established within Public Works Department (as such term is 
hereinafter defined) and operated in coordination and consultation with the Irrigation Department 
(as such term is hereinafter defined) for the purposes of assisting with implementation of the 
obligations of Kerala with respect to the Resettlement Action Plan (as such term is hereinafter 
defined), the Environmental Management Plans (as such term is hereinafter defined), 
Environmental and Social Management Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined), and the 
Environment and Social Assessment Management Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined) in 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(g)
“Environmental Management Plans” means Kerala’s Environmental 
Management Plans dated January 2002, approved by and furnished to the Bank on February 6, 
2002, including any amendments to such plans as may be agreed between the Bank and Kerala, 
for implementation of Part A.1 of the Project (relating to road improvements) in accordance with 
certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures contained in such plans to offset, 
reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate any adverse environmental impacts;
(h)
“Environment and Social Assessment Management Plan” means Kerala’s 
Environment and Social Assessment Management Plan to be approved by and furnished to the 
Bank, including any amendments to such plan as may be agreed between the Bank and Kerala, 
for implementation of Part A.2 of the Project (relating to the pilot program for inland waterways) 
in accordance with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures contained in such 
plan to offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate any adverse environmental and social 
impacts;
(i)
“Environment and Social Management Plan” means Kerala’s Environment and 
Social Management Plan dated January 2002 approved by and furnished to the Bank on February 
6, 2002, including any amendments to such plan as may be agreed between the Bank and Kerala, 
for the implementation of Part B.3 of the Project (relating to road maintenance works) in 
accordance with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures contained in such plan 
to offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts;
(j)
“Finance Manual” means the manual of procedures for financial management of 
the Project agreed to between Kerala and the Bank;
(k)
“Financial Management System” means the financial management system that 
Kerala shall establish and operate pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement;
(l)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s and Kerala’s fiscal year, beginning 
on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(m)
“Institutional Strengthening Action Plan” means the Institutional Strengthening 
Action Plan approved by Kerala pursuant to Government Order (Rt) No. 30/2002/PWD dated 
January 1, 2002, as may be amended from time to time by agreement between Kerala and the 
Bank, for improving the institutional capacity of Public Works Department (as such term is 
hereinafter defined) and the Irrigation Department (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(n)
“Irrigation Department” means the Irrigation Department of Kerala, and includes 
Page  4
any successor thereto;
(o)
“Kerala” means the State of Kerala, a state of India, and includes any successor 
thereto;
(p)
“National Remote Sensing Agency” means the National Remote Sensing 
Agency, an autonomous organization under Borrower’s Department of Space;
(q)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Kerala of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(r)
“Project Implementation Plan” means Kerala’s Project Implementation Plan 
dated January 2002, approved by the Bank, containing, among other things, financial projections 
or forecasts for the Project, details regarding procurement, format and content of project 
financial reports, monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for 
implementation of the Project, and shall include any accompanying schedules or exhibits and any 
amendments or updates made from time to time by Kerala with the agreement of the Bank;
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each Project Management Report prepared 
in accordance with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(t)
“Project Management Team” means the Project Management Team to be 
maintained within Public Works Department, which will be responsible for, among other things, 
performing routine project management, monitoring progress, maintaining the flow of funds and 
project accounts, providing technical guidance and general administration, and preparing 
progress reports;
(u)
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project Steering Committee to be maintained by 
Kerala under the Project and responsible for decisions relating to contract awards under the 
Project;
(v)
(v)
“Public Works Department” means the Public Works Department of Kerala and 
includes any successor thereto;
(w)
“Resettlement Action Plan” means Kerala’s Resettlement Action Plan dated 
December 2001 approved by and furnished to the Bank on January 30, 2002, including any 
updates and amendments to such plan as may be agreed between the Bank and Kerala under Part 
A.3 of the Project, which sets out, among other things, the principles and objectives of the plan, 
eligibility criteria for identification of persons affected by the Project, compensation, assistance 
and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of the plan;
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(y)
“Tender Evaluation Committee” means the Tender Evaluation Committee to be 
maintained by Kerala to evaluate all procurement issues arising from the Project.
Page  5
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed to be a reference to Kerala.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred and fifty five million 
dollars ($255,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  6
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread 
for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of the 
interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its 
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, shall cause Kerala to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Kerala therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Kerala to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Kerala in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states 
of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Page  7
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Kerala pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Page  8
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
Kerala shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events that have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Kerala will be able 
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Kerala, and is 
legally binding upon Kerala in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
all actions set forth in the action plan referred to in Section 3.02(a) of the Project 
Agreement for which the completion dates specified therein precede the Effective Date have 
been completed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Kerala, and is legally binding upon Kerala in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy 
Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Page  9
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
91-11-3013133 or
New Delhi
91-11-3017511
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By/s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated (
Expressed in Dollars
)
% of 
Expenditures to
be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
(a)Civil works for
Part A.3 of the 
Project
10,560,000
90% of 
eligible
expenditures
(b)Civil works other
than for Part A.3 of 
the Project
209,790,000
80%
(2)
Goods
7,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local 
Page  11
expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost); 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures 
for
other items
procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services, 
training and studies
25,100,000
100%
(4)
Fee
2,550,000
Amount due 
under
Section 
2.04 of
this 
Agreement
__________
TOTAL
255,000,000
Page  12
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $15,000,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) (a), 1 (b), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) all contracts for works, except those under 
Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (ii)  goods under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) training and studies; all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve 
Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
Page  13
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. 
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
Page  14
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
For the purposes of this Annex: 
1.
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $15,000,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $7,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed $40,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the said Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  15
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Kerala primarily to improve traffic flow and 
road safety on its primary road network and strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of 
its key transport agencies.
These objectives shall be achieved by, among other things: (i) enhancing the capacity 
and quality of the state highway network and major district roads; (ii) improving road 
maintenance planning and management practices; (iii) reducing accidents along major roads; (iv) 
strengthening technical, financial and management capacities of the Public Works Department 
and Irrigation Department; and (v) promoting inland water transport through pilot activities on 
certain selected canals.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Improvements to Transport Corridors
1.
Widening and strengthening about 600 kilometers of state roads to create two lanes for 
traffic flow, together with the construction of service roads, bypasses, two rail over-bridges and 
road-side appurtenances, reconstruction and strengthening of cross-drainage structures and side 
drainage facilities, and other minor realignments.
2.
Carrying out a pilot program for rehabilitation of the Alappuzha-Kottayam, 
Alappuzha-Changanassery, and the Kottayam-Vaikom canals by widening and deepening them, 
strengthening their embankments and making provision for navigational aids.
3.
Implementation and monitoring of the Resettlement Action Plan.
Page  16
4.
Implementation and monitoring of the Environmental Management Plans.
5.
Implementation and monitoring of the Environment and Social Assessment Management 
Plan.
Part B
: Road Maintenance
1.
Carrying out a maintenance works program for about 1000 kilometers of state highways 
including a pilot of  alternative contracting methods based on performance.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen maintenance supervision capacity and 
quality assurance practices of the Public Works Department.
3.
Implementation and monitoring of the Environment and Social Management Plan.
Part C:
Road Safety
1.
Provision of technical assistance to Kerala for identification of “accident black spots,” 
and designing minor improvement works for state roads.
2.
Implementation of minor mitigation measures and other recommendations made by 
consultant studies commissioned under Part C.1 of the Project.
3.
Support to Kerala for improving road safety features in the state through the 
implementation of a road safety action plan and the provision of equipment and training of 
personnel.
Part D
: Institutional Strengthening of the Public Works Department
1.
Implementation of an Institutional Strengthening Action Plan to assist the Public Works 
Department and the Irrigation Department, as the case may be, with, among other things: (i) 
maintenance management, (ii) data collection, (iii) development and implementation of a road 
management system, (iv) road safety management, (v) setting up of an information management 
system, (vi) institutional restructuring, including revision of codes and manuals and reform of 
financial management systems, and (vii) training of personnel.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to Kerala for techno-economic and detailed engineering 
studies, which will assess Kerala’s capacity to carry out another transport sector project in 
Kerala.
*      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
Page  17
June 15, 2007
  6,840,000
December 15, 2007
  6,940,000
June 15, 2008
  7,040,000
December 15, 2008
  7,145,000
June 15, 2009
  7,245,000
December 15, 2009
  7,350,000
June 15, 2010
  7,460,000
December 15, 2010
  7,570,000
June 15, 2011
  7,680,000
December 15, 2011
  7,790,000
June 15, 2012
  7,905,000
December 15, 2012
  8,020,000
June 15, 2013
  8,135,000
December 15, 2013
  8,255,000
June 15, 2014
  8,375,000
December 15, 2014
  8,495,000
June 15, 2015
  8,620,000
December 15, 2015
  8,745,000
June 15, 2016
  8,870,000
December 15, 2016
  9,000,000
June 15, 2017
  9,130,000
December 15, 2017
  9,265,000
June 15, 2018
  9,400,000
December 15, 2018
  9,535,000
June 15, 2019
  9,675,000
December 15, 2019
  9,815,000
June 15, 2020
  9,960,000
December 15, 2020
 10,105,000
June 15, 2021
 10,250,000
December 15, 2021
 10,385,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in 
Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
