RETIJRN TO
REPORTS        DESK         CIRCULATING  4PY             RESTRICTED
WOITHWN       T  BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK         Report No. PA-80
ONE- WEE 
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They dci not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MEXICO
May 6, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US    $1               Pesos $12.50
Pesos $1           =   US    $ 0.08
Pesos $1,000,000   =   US    $80,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 Kilogram (kg)           = 2.20 Pounds
1 Metric Ton (t)          = 0.98 Long Tons
1 Kilometer (km)          = 0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)            = 2.47 Acres
1 Square Kilometer (km2)  = 0.39 Square Miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANAGROS  = Banco Nacional Agropecuario
BANXICO   = Banco de Mexico
FONDO     = Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura



MEXICO
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SU124ARY ..1.. ............................ . i
T. INTRODUCTION.                        ................                1
II.  BACKGROUND  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
A. General.                                                        1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                        1
III. ANiALYSIS OF TiE PERFORMANCE OF LOAN 430-iMIE . . . . . . . . . . .  5
A. The Project Under Loan 430-ME   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
B. Organization and Management.                                    6
C. Conclusions.                                                    8
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                        8
A. Countrywide Sub-Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
B. Southeastern Sub-Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
C. Cost Estimates and Financing .13
D. Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .19
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMIENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
This appraisal report was prepared by Messrs. J. Fransen, M. J. McGarry and
R. ERossi.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. The Role of the Banking System in the Financing of Agriculture and
Livestock
2. The Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura
3. Analysis of Performance under Loan 430-ME
4. Breakdown of the Investment Categories and the Foreign Exchange Component
5. Phasing of the Lending Program
6. Estimates of the Proposed Investment Program
Table 1 - Livestock - Countrywide Sub-Project
Table 2 - Annual Crops - Countrywide Sub-Project
Table 3 - Perennia. Crops - Countrywide Sub-Project
Table 4 - Agro-Industries - Countrywide Sub-Project
Table 5 - Cattle - Southeastern Sub-Project
Table 6 - Technical Service Costs Combined for both Sub-Projects
7. Summary of the Proposed Total Project Cost
S. Proposed Organizational Chart for the Southeastern Sub-Project
9. The FOliDO's Projected Receipts and Disbursements Relating to the Project
10. Projected Physical Impact
11. Finanvial and Economic Rates of Return
Appendix 1 - Financial Rates of Return by Enterprises
Appendix 2 - Financial Rates of Return by Major Enterprises
Appendix 3 - Economi& Rates of Return
NiAPS
1.   Countrywide Sub-Project:  Ecologically Homogeneous and Land Use Regions
2.   Southeastern Sub-Project:  General Sub-Project Location



MEXICO
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEINT PROJECT
9JMMARY
i.        The Government of Mexico has requested a loan from the IBRD to help
finance a Livestock and Agricultural Department Project. Approximately 75%
of the total Project cost is for livestock development. Project-related tech-
nical services would be included. The Project would consist of two sub-pro-
jects.
ii.       The Countrywide Livestock and Agricultural Development Sub-Project,
which is essentially a continuation of Loan 430-ME made in December 1965,
accounts for '55% of the total Project;cost. It would provide loans on a
countrywide basis to commercial producers for: (a) livestock development
(except for cattle in the Southeastern Sub-Project Area); (b) annual crop de-
velopment; (c) perennial crop development; and (d) certain types of agro-
industries.
iii.      The Southeastern Cattle Development Sub-Project accounts for 45% of
the total Project cost. It would consist of loans for the development of
commercial cattle ranches in the southeastern Wet Tropical region of Mexico.
iv.       The borrower, as under r1oan 430-ME, would be the Nacional Financiera
The Project would be administered by the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura, a Trust Fund of the Banco de Mexico. It
would operate through the private banking system and the public Banco Nacional
Agropecuario chain, under a rediscounting program.
v.        The Loan would help to finance investments of approximately US$200
million equivalent over a five-year period. The Project would include working
capital requirements of about US$24 million equivalent annually, to be pro-
vided by Mexican sources. Development loans by the participating banks would
be committed within three years, but some on-ranch loan disbursements, and
thus the IBRD disbursements, would be over about five years. Financing would
be borne approximately as follows: producers, 20%; participating banks, 16%;
the FONDO, 32%; and IBRD, 32%.
vi.       The Project is sound and economically justified. Subject to obtain-
ing certain assurances during negotiations, the Project is suitable for a loan
of US$65 million repayable over 20 years including five years of grace.






MEXICO
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.0L,     The Government of Mexico has requested a loan to help finance in-
ves-tments on commercial farms and ranches and for related agro-industries and
technical services. Because a large part of the Project is essentially a
continuation of Loan 430-ME made in December 1965,1/ a review of the perform-
anceB under that Loan is included in this report. The appraisal report is
based on the findings of a nLission which visited Mexico in September/October
1968. The mission was composed of Messrs. J. Fransen, C. E. Eugenio, R. Rossi,
F. van Gigch and M. J. McGarry (IBRD); and L. E. Peterson (Consultant Agro-
Industries).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Mexico, with a land area of approximately 2.0 million km , has a
variety of climatic and ecological conditions: hot, humid tropics along the
Gulf and lower Pacific Coasts; temperate tropics in the bordering mountain
areas; seasonally wet and dry conditions in the temperate central plateau;
and semiarid to arid region in the west and north where climate varies princi-
pally according to altitude. These extremes permit a wide variety of general
crops, tree crops and livestock, and contrasting production practices. Total
population reached 46.0 million in 1968 and is presently growing at an annual
rate of 3.5%. Between 1950 and 1966 GNP at constant prices grew at an annual
rate of 6.2%.  Per capita GNP, approximately US$560 equivalent in 1968, is
relatively high on the Latin American scale.
B. The Agricultural Secto2/
2.02      Agriculture accounts for over 50% of Mexico's export earnings and
about 95% of domestic food consumption. While agriculture's share of GNP has
fallen from 23% in 1950 to about 17% in 1966, mainly because of the dynamic
growth of industry, half of the population is still engaged in agriculture.
Over the past 15 years or so production has grown at about 4% per year. Mexico
1/ See Appraisal Report Number TO-489a, dated August 27, 1965.
2/ Includes livestock, forestry and fisheries. For a general description of
the agricultural sector see Bank Report WH-137a dated July 13, 1964; also
Bank Report WH-164b Volume IV-Annex VII dated October 26, 1966.



- 2 -
has considerable resources suitable for the raising of livestock and this en-
terprise accounts for aboult 35è of the net value of farm output. Crop pro-
duction accounts for about 60%.
2.03      Livestock production is of immediate importance because of rising
prices in the maJor centers of consumption. Some price controls have been
imposed on livestock products. The Government has established a national
livestock program. Measures aim. at increasing productivity in traditional
production regions, developing additional lands, increasing the productivity
of land and animals and improving internal distribution. The wet and dry
tropical areas of southeastern Mexico offer the best scope for expansion.
Livestock development will require substantial financial assistance to the
ranchers so they can increase their use of purchased inputs and expand on-
ranch inveetments.
2.04      Looking at the expansion of crops over several decades, growth in
crop output has come about 40% from acreage expansion, about 40% from yield
increase and the remainder from shifts to higher value crops. In recent years,
however, scope for further acreage exDansion has become limited.   Future growth
will depend on more intenSivre use of existing lands and increasing crop and
forage yields. Irrigation, for instance, is a Droved source of intensifi-
cation. Only about 20% of the cropped acreage is now irrigated, but this pro-
duces about 65% of the value of crop oultPut ani absorbs the major share of
the commercial fertilizer used. There is considerable room for greater mecha-
nization. About 20% of the cropped area is worked by tractor, as compared to
about 10% in 1950. The intensification of crop production will require the
purchase of more inputs, greater on-farm investments, and the complementary
development of irrigation infra-structure, roads, and marketing facilities.
2.05      Of fundamental importance to the growth of modern agriculture in
Mexico has been the development, over the past 25 years, of the modern complex
of irrigation facilities in northern Mlexico, to which IBRD financing has con-
tributed.  Concurrent with water resouree development, and contributing gzeatly
to the success of irrigated agriculture, agronomic research was able to de-
velo:p superior production systems and improved varieties.  The provision and
financing of the needed inputs was another important factor.   Moreover, a
selective price support program was used to enhance the profitability of cer-
tain lines of production. These activities have beep part of an inter-con-
nected effort.
2.o6      At the present time, one of the significant obstacles to modern agri-
culture is a lack of sma4i agro-industries or farmer-service enterprises.   Ir.
particular regard to livestock development, for example, there is need for i
more facilities for animal slaughter, milk pasteurization, and mixing animal
feed concentrates of guaranteed quality.  In general, Mexico requires addi-
tional investment in enterprises for storage, preservation, processing and
marketing of food and fiber crops, This is especially true of those relatively
modest facilities or sertices that are of direet concern to farmer producers.
Another important concern for the future is the development of new processing
industries (concentrated lime juice, banana puree, etc.) aimed at new markets.



-3-
AEricultural Services
2.07      The Government, through the Secretariat of Agriculture, operates
seven regional research centers with headquarters at Chapingo, which is also
a major education and training center. A major achievement of official re-
search has been the creation of improved varieties of maize and wheat. Govern-
rment agricultural extension services are under the Secretariat of Agriculture
and cover crops and livestock. Official and private banks also provide ex-
tension services.
Agricultural Credit
2.08      The adoption of new production techniques has been closely associated
with the provision of agricultural credit facilities for the rural economy
(Amnex 1). A maJor mechanism of government policy, since 1955, has been the
rediscounting of loans made to farmers by private banks. The intermediary
organization is the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultuia (FONDO), which has full access td the rediscounting facilities
of the Banco de Mexico (BANXICO).  The FONDO operates essentially as a non-
profit institution.
2.09      Mexico's agricultural credit program, through the FONDO, has been
aided with external finance. In 1962 the Government obtained a US$20 million
loan from USAID for lending to small producers. This became known as the
Alliance for Progress Program (ALPRO program). An IBRD Loanl!, made in
December 1965, provided the FONDO with additional resources to expand medium-
and long-term lending to commercial producers not eligible for credit under
the ALPRO program (Annex 2).
2.10      In 1965, a new public agricultural credit bank, the Banco Nacional
Agropecuario (BANAGROS) was established to cbannel funds, combined with tech-
nical assistance, to farmers and "ejiditarios"?/ through a system of regional
banks. Under a provision of Loan 430-ME, all seven regional BANAGROS have
been approved by the IBRD as lending channels; as of December 31, 1968, about
10% of the lending under Loan 430-ME had been channeled through them.
2411      The channeling of loans through the BANAGROS enables small farmers
and "ejiditarios" to be reached through directed loans made on a group basis.
It also provides credit outlets in areas where commercial banks are not active.
Lending by BANAGROS rose sharply in 1968.
2.12      As a result of lending to more smaller commercial scale producers,
the! average size loan under Loan 430-ME dropped. As compared to an average
of about US$17,000 equivalent at the end of 1967, the average over the first
nilne months of 1968 was about US$13,000. The average for the entire Project,
now fully disbursed, is about US$15,000.
2.13      Lending to agriculture has accounted for about 12% to 14% of the
total loans of the Mexican banking system. In absolute terms, credit assist-
ance to the sector has steadily grown: from a little less than US$280 million
UJ 430-ME; UES$25 million.
2/ Farmers who operate communal farms known as "ejidos".



-4 -
equivalent in 1957, to almost US$600 million equivalent in 1962, to about
US$1,200 million equivalent in 1967. In the latter year, with the emergence
of the BANAGROS, lending by official banks exceeded that of private banks.
Private banks give loans at their own full risk. The FONDO's rediscount facil-
ities have been utilized by the private banks for some 2% to 4% of their short-
term operations and for about half of their medium- and long-term financing.
2.14      Medium- and long-term loans, from all sources, accounted for about
US$300 million equivalent at the end of 1967, or about 22% of total agricul-
tural credit outstanding. Of this amount, about US$85 million equivalent, or
approximately 28%, was rediscounted with the FONDO. Of the amount rediscounted
with the FONDO, about US$25 millionl/, or 29% of total rediscounts, was under
the lending program aesisted by Loan 430-ME. Additionally, during the first
nine months of 1968, approximately US$22 million equivalent (including relend-
ing of collections from sub.-loan4 previously granted) were lent to farmers
through private banks and the BANAGROS under Loan 430-ME, further increasing
the medium- and long-term credit assistance being met through the IBRD project.
2.15      The institutional outlook is favorable for agricultural credit.
The private banks and the RANAGROS are taking the commercial risks of all
lending and building up their institutional capability for handling increasing
amounts of development loans. Moreover, a substantial part of the FONDO's
resources comes from cattle bonds purchased by private banks.  These bonds,
which are obligations of the Government, have generated an increasing amount
of funds and are now at a level of a little more than US$40 million equivalent.
Thus, as the FOIDO's operations expand, an increasing proportion of private
banking resources are being channeled into agricultural investments.
Livestock Policy
2.16      As mentioned, the Government has established a national program for
livestock development. Off:icial projections for agricultural commodities
indicate that serious shortages in livestock products, narticularly beef, may
be expected in the near future. Taking into account all developments, in-
cluding the proposed Project, a deficit of about 174,000 metric tons of beef
annually by 1975 is forecast. The wholesale and retail price controls for
livestock products are not at present very effective; they are either not en-
forced, as with beef; suspended, as with milk; or are currently above market
prices, as in the case of eggs. Some ranchers are concerned over the Govern-
ment's determination to comolete its land reform program in livestock pro-
ducing regions. At present, ad hoc commissions are working on determining
"smallholdings" for the different livestock regions, based on estimated carry-
ing capacity per hectare of land. Smallholdings are defined as any area of
land wi;Jh a carrying capacity of 500 hcEad of cattle or the equivalent in other
livestock species. This should give atple scope for developing viable com-
mercial units.
Markets and Marketmg
2.17      In general, marketing channels are reasonably well developed and
there is adequate competition. Mexico is free of foot-and-mouth disease, so
I/ The origirgal total amount rediscounted was about US$30 million equivalent.



the United States market for feeder cattle is open: about a half millicn feeder
cattle (male weaners) are exported annually from the northern states. The
cattie tick and internal parasites are associated with most of the ennual
losses in calves in Mexico's tropical areas. Cattle cannot be transferred
between the northern region and the tick-infested parts of the country. Brit-
ish breeds are dominant in the northern export-oriented region; the rest of
the country is oriented toward supplying the domestic beef market, especially
Mexico City, using CriollolV and Criollo/Cebu crosses.
III. AiALYSIS OF THE PERFORMANCES OF LOA!N 430-ME
A. The ProJect under Loan 430-ME
3.01      Under Loan 430-ME, loan beneficiaries are commercial producers,
operating in three principal regions (Tropical, Central Pllateau, Northern
Mexico), whose credit needs were not being adequately supplied under the
FONDO's existing programs in 1965 (Para 2.09). Rediscount funds for the
Project come, on a 50-50 basis, from the proceeds of Loan 430-ME and from
the FONDO's own resources, mostly borrowing from the BANXICO. Loans to sub-
borrowers, via participating banks, are made to help finance the development
of livestock, general crops, fruit and tree crops and the establishment of
processing industries. A detailed analysis of performance under Loan 430-ME
is presented in Annex 3. A brief resume is given in the table below for the
four major enterprises. As of mid-1968, the forecasts and the percentage of
funds actually utilized are quite close. The comparison is as follows:
Actual as of
Forecast                June 302 1968
No.of   Dollars   % of     No.of   Dollars   %  of
Enterprise              Loans   Million   Total    Loans   Million   Total
Livestock                 850     27.4      56     1,855     24.4       58
General Crops             610     11.0      23       476      8.5      20
Fruit & Tree Crops        175      4.4       9       162      2.0        5
Processing Industries      65      6.1      12       124      7.7       17
Total                   1,700                                 4 100  2,6]7  h2.6  100
Project funds are completely disbursed and the number of loans has surpassed,
by over 50%, the number originally expected. This, however, includes the use
of repayments not needed for IBRD debt servicing for additional rediscounting
under the Project.
A/ "Criollo" is an improved domestic ecotype that is an outgrowth of the
herds introduced during the conquest.



-6-
Livestock Development
3.02      Livestock loans account for about 70% of the total number of loans
and close to 60% of their total value. The Tropics received 54%, the Central
Plateau 21% and Northern Mexico 25%. This indicates a substantial credit
demand in both well established and in developing regions with high potential
for beef production (Tropics). Growth of dairying in the Camarca Lagunera
Region has been a significant achievement. Trelitionally, cotton has been
the principal commodity produced in this region. In the past few years, many
cotton farmers have initiated dairy enterprises, financing most of the fixed
installations from their own resources. This resulted in a very high per-
centage of loan funds being used for livestock purchases.
General Crops Development
3.03      Loans for development of general crops, mostly cereals and cotton,
account for about 18%J of the number and about 20% of the total value.  Almost
three-fourths of the funds were invested in the irrigated districts of the
North. A majority of 'the loans went into machinery, equipment, soil rehab-
ilitation and irrigation facilities; 450 new tractors were purchased and 130
new pumps installed; and almost 18,000 ha of land were developed.
Fruit and Tree Crops Development
3.04      Loans for fruit and tree crops account for about 5% of the total
number and value of all loans. The Central Plateau region received almost
three-fifths of these funds. About 60%1 of the funds were used for the im-
provement and establishment of orchards and for crop diversification; almost
3,000 hectares of orchards were improved and established. Citrus, peaches,
avocados and grapes received a major part of the benefits.
Processing Industries Development
3.05      Loans to processing industries account for only 5% of the total
number but over 17% of the total value of all loans. Nineteen loans, each
exceeding US$160,000 equivalent, accounted for over half of the lending for
processing industries. The loan funds were used for building construction
(33p) and machinery and equipment (67%). Some 45% of the total loans granted
were directly related to the processing of livestock products and the remain-
ing 55% to other agricultural products.
B, Organization and Management
3.06      The Borrower under Loan 430-NE is the Nacional Financiera, a finan-
cial agency of the Mexican Government v'hich urnder existing Mexican legislation
must be the borrower or co-borrower under IBRD loans. It is administered by
the FONDO as Trustee for the .BANXICO. For purposes of the Project, the FONDO
has established a Special Fund which it uses to rediscount Project-related
loans by participating banks, both private and public. It also provides tech-
nical services, basically farm planning and supervision, on behalf of the
participating banks. In some cases, when the participating bank is a member
of the BANAGROS system, the FONDO merely approves the technicians who provide



- 7-
the technical service. A similar procedure is followed with the private banks
who have qualified field technicians.
Par1ticipating Banks and Lending and Rediscounting Operations
3.07      Among the participating organizations are 115 banks and "financieras",
of which 108 are private credit institutions and seven are regional BANAGROS.
The Project provided for US$50 million equivalent of rediscount funds. To
promote the Project and encourage private bank participation, the FONDO opened
credit lines totaling approximately US$85 million. Many of the more progressive
private banks have fully used and renewed their credit lines. Some of the
credit lines originally opened in 1966 remain current and unused. One reason
is that some bank managers have not yet become knowledgeable of the regulations
governing Loan 430-ME. FONDO officials are taking steps to correct this situ-
ation. As of December 31, 1968, the US$50 million equivalent available under
the Project supported by Loan 430-ME had been fully utilized, and the FONDO
is using current surpluses for further rediscounting along similar lines.
3.08      Participating banis may rediscount eligible loans with the FONDO at
the following rates:
% of Loan Rediscounted with the FONDO         Rediscount Rate - %
90                                    7
80                                    6
70                                    5
On average, approximately 87% of the value of loans granted by participating
banks have been rediscounted by the FONDO because rediscount rates compare
favorably with the 8% p.a. cost of time deposits, the alternative source of
funds for the participating banks. Less than 1% of outstanding loans under
the Project are past due. To date, all rediscounts have been paid at maturity.
Lending Terms and Conditions to Sub-Borrowers
3.09      Under Loan 430-ME, all loans must be at 10% per annum to sub-borrow-
ers. Terms vary, however. When Loan 430-ME was first started, private banks
generally gave loans of no more than three years. Terms have since been
lengthened somewhat, with repayment generally of three to five years and pos-
sibly a year of grace. Private banks remain rather conservative, however,
favoring borrowers well known to them. BANAGROS are more disposed to lend to
selected new producers; they also provide more appropriate maturity terms and
grace periods. Furthermore, many private banks require sub-borrowers to main-
tain a non-earning deposit account equivalent to 10% to 20% of the loan, thus
increasing the interest cost. The effective rate of medium- and long-term
loans, therefore, approximates the current short-term rate of 12% per year.
Technical Services
3.10      Loan applications require evaluation by FONDO or FONDO approved
technicians. Use of funds is also subject to review. Evaluation procedures



- 8 -
are sound. One needed improvement, however, is to increase the scope of sub-
mitted farm development plans. Frequently, the sub-borrower's planned invest-
ment from his own resources are not adequately indicated. This has been the
case, for instance, for some of the dairy farms which applied for loans only
for animal purchase. The necessary improvements will necessitate some re-
adjustment within the Fondo. Steps are already being taken to improve effi-
ciency.  Data Processing has been computerized, for example.   The FONDO offi-
cials are aware of the need for more intensive participation of central office
technical staff and standarization of procedures for the evaluation and'super-
vision of rediscounted loans.
C. Conclusions
3.11      Loan 430-ME has been in operation only three years, which is insuf-
ficient time to show its full effect, especially in regard to livestock and
tree crops. The FONDO is attempting to quantify the impact of the Project in
both financial and economic terms through field surveys and through appropriate
adjustments in the methodology of field data collection. But beneficial fi-
nancial effects can already be seen in the general appearance of farms and
ranches, and in the repayment records. Prospects appear good that the forecast
benefits will be realized.
The FONDO's Financial Operating Results
3.12      The FONDO essentially operates as a non-profit institution (Para
2.08), while administering several lending programs. Its main source of
income is interest from rediscounts with BAJIXICO. Although its income has
increased with greater volume, the growth has not been sufficient to fully
cover all operating expenses (largely consisting of the cost of borrowed
money and salaries). However, the deficit is small and is converted into a
modest annual net income, on all operations, because of interest earnings
from cash on deposit with BANXlCC).
3.13      The Special Fund, created for Loan 430-ME within the FONDO, is in
good financial condition. The Government will amortize Loan 430-ME as a
contribution -to the FONDO's trust principal. All risk assets are claims
against financially sound credit institutions.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed Project is basically one of livestock development since
75% of total Project cost is used for this purpose. It would consist of two
sub-projects and related technical services:
(a) a Countrywide Livestock and Agricultural Development
Sub-Project (Countrywide Sub-Project), is essentially
a continuation of Loan 430-ME, made in December 1965.
This portion of the Project, costing US$110 million
equivalent, wQuld account for 55% of the total cost.
It would provide loans for: (a) livestock development;
(b) annual crop development; (c) perennial crop de-
velopment; and (d) certain types of agro-industries.
An estima ed 2,8Q0 loans would be involved in all parts



-9-
of the country, with the exception that all cattle
loans in the Southeastern Wet Tropics Region would be
ccvered by the sub-project below; and
(b) a Southeastern Cattle Development Sub-Project (South-
eastern Sub-Project), which emphasizes beef production
in tropical areas with high deVelopment potential.
This portion, costing US$90 million equivalent, would
account for 45% of the total cost. This Sub-Project
would provide loans for cattle development on com-
mercial ranches in an area of about 12 million ha of
tropical lands bordering the Gulf of Mexico. An esti-
mated 2,200 loans would be involved. A regional office
of the FONDO would provide intensive technical services
and assist in obtaining appropriate lending terms and
conditions for the producers in the Southeastern Sub-
Project Area.
A. Countrywide Sub-Project
General Description
4.02      For purposes of the Sub-Project, five ecologically homogenous regions
have been definied, each of which has rather distinct differences in potential
land use (Map 1). Proposed investments have been classified into the follow-
ing major categories: (a) land improvement and development; (b) on-farm irri-
gation works; (c) agricultural machinery and equipment; (d) construction and
installations; and (e) breeding stock. Major investment categories in new
agro-industries would be: (a) land improvement and utilities; (b) construction:
(c) machinery iand equipment; and (d) feasibility studies and supervision. A
breakdown of these investment categories is given in Annex 4.
MaJor Enterprises of the Lending Program
4.03      The estimated 2,800 loans would be phased over a three-year commit-
ment period (see Annex 5). The average investment per loan, including the
sub-borrower contribution, would be about US$35,000 equivalent overall. This
increase over -the average loan size under Loan 430-ME (Para 2.12) is because
of the greater emphasis on livestock and agro-industries, and because these
values include the sub-borrower's participation. Among the four major enter-
prises, the average would range from about US$87,000 for agro-industries,
US$17-18,000 for crops, and US$37,000 for livestock. The loans in each enter-
prise and the regional distribution is summarized below:



- 10 -
Number of Loans by Reons           Total    Aver-1/
Enternise          Irrig. Arid    Central   Dry     Wet    (No.of     Invest.
North  North  Plateau Tronics Tropics   Loans) (%) Per Loan
Livestock           140     430     230     200      -     1,000   36   36.9
Annual Crops        475     130    300       10      75      990   35   16.5
Perennial Crops      40     100      -      270      -       410   15   18.6
Agro-Industries      80     142     127      13      38      400   14   8
Total               735     ∞02     657     493     113    2,800  100   34.7
Percentage           26      29      23      18       4      100   -     -
1/ In US$'000. Includes both the sub-borrower's contribution and the loan
made by the participating bank.
The Wet Trorics region would receive less emphasis in the Countrywide Sub-
Project since the Southeastern Sub-Project is located almost entirely in this
ecological region.
4.04      Livestock: The 1,000 loans for livestock would account fo'r 36% of
the total. About 40% of the loans wouild be made to beef producers in the
Arid North.  The balance is f'airly evenly distributed in the Irrigated North,
Central Plateau and Dry Tropics.  Loans would be made for both beef and dairy
cattle, as well as swine, srheep/goats and poultry. No loans would be made
for cattle development in the Wet Tropics Region.   Major investment categories
are: (a) breeding stock, 45,%; (b) land- improvement axd development, 27%; (c)
construction and installations, 17%; Fand (d) agricuiltural machinery and equip-
ment, 1.1%. Practically all the land improvement and development would be on
beef ranches: pasture estab]ishment, boreholes and windm'lls, fencing, dams
and soil erosion con-trol; alfalfa establishment for dairying would be an
exception. Equipment for dairy farms (milking equipment, milk cooling and
storage tanks, etc.) would account for about half of the investnents in agri-
cultural machinery and equipment. The average investment cost per dairy farm
would be high, about us$64,000 per loan, reflecting the high intensity "con-
finement" system that is followed in the major milksheds of Mexico. On av-
erage, dairy farms would have about 120 and 250 cows in the Irrigated North
and Central Plateau Regions, respectively. A detailed breakdown, by major
ecological region and by investment category, of the Drooosed investment pro-
gram is given in Annex 6, Tables 1 through 6. Table 1 shows the detailed
breakdown of livestock in the Couintrywide Sub-Project.
4.05      Annual Crops: The estimated 990 loans for annual crop productiou
would have an average investment cost per loan of about US$16,500 equivalent.
Approximately 50% of the loans would be made in the irrigated North and about
30% in the Irrigated Central Plateau.  The other three ecological regions
would receive less emphasis. Loan funds would be used to improve some 200,000
ha of land on nedium-sized farms. For purposes of the Sub-Project, farming
enterprises ar;e grouped into: (a) those exclusively producing annual crops;



and (b) those producing predominantly annual crops (over 80% of land in an-
nual crops). Loan beneficiaries would be commercial farmers with proven man-
agerial skills. Priority would be to crops such as cereals, vegetables, oil-
seeds, cotton, and pulses. Major improvements would be: (a) clearing and
leveling of about 25,000 ha of land; (b) full-development of 100 small irri-
gation systems; (c) drilling and installation of 200 deep wells for irrigation;
(d) construction of 300 new farm buildings; (e) purchase of 700 new tractors
and necessary related equipment; and (f) procurement of additional farm im-ple-
ments, tools, and machinery to complete the needs of partially equipped farms.
The proposed investment program for major ecological regions and for invest-
ment categories is detailed in Annex 6, Table 2.
4.o6      Perennial Crops: The estimated 410 loans for perennial crop pro-
duction would help to finance average investment costs per loan of about
US$18,600 equivalent per loan. Approximately 60% of the loans would be made
in the Dry Tropics. The balance would be made in the Irrigated North and the
Arid North. These loans would improve about 40,000 ha of land on well managed
farms. For purposes of the Sub-Project, loan beneficiaries are grouped into
two types: (a) farms producing perennial crops only; and (b) those on which
more than 20% of the cropland is used for perennials. P'riority would be given
to citrus, grapes, avocados, apples, peaches and nuts. Proposed major im-
prov-ements are: (a) clearing and leveling of 5,000 ha of land; (b) development
of on-farm irrigation works affecting 18,000 ha (including rehabilitation and
improvement of 6,000 ha, and construction of 100 km of lined canals, 200 km of
drainage canals and various smal irrigation and flood control structures);
(c) establishment of 8,000 ha of new orchards with the use of over two million
selected fruit tree seedlings or cuttings; and (d) construction of 130 new
farm buildings. The proposed investment program for major ecological regions
and for investmnent categories is detailed in Annex 6, Table 3.
4.o0      Agro_-Itdustries:  The estimated 40o loans for agro-industries would
represent 14% of the total loans but nearly 36% of the total investments for
the Countrywide Sub-Project. Depending on the type of industry, average in-
vestment cost would vary from approximately US$10,000 to over US$1 million
equivalent. Investments would be confined largely to primary processing or
service.-type enterprises that are of direct benefit to the farmer or rancher
owners. About half the loans would directly relate to livestock products,
representing about 40% of the total investment in agro-industries. The other
loans are related to other agricultural commodities. The FONDO would approve
loan rediscount requests for agro-industries on the basis of feasibility
studies prepared by the FONDO's staff, private consultants, and staff of the
Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas. Most of the total in-
vestment for agro-industries, 62%, would be used for machinery and equipment;
about 33% would be used for building construction. Over half of all loans
would be made in the Northern regions and a third in the Central Plateau.
The proposed investment program for major ecological regions and for invest-
ment categories is detailed in Annex 6, Table 4.



- 12 -
B.  Southeastern Sub-Project
The Sub-Project Area
4.o8      The Southeastern Sub-Project, bordering the Gulf of Mexico, is ba-
sically located in the Wet Tropics Region (Map 2).   Major characteristics of
the 12 million ha area are: (a) a native vegetation consisting of Savanna
grasses which provide good grazing; (b) rain forests, parts of which can be
developed for livestock production; and (c) a wet tropical climate with a
mean annual temperature of 260C. Rainfall is fairly reliable and varied from
adequate (700 mm/year - Yucatan) to excessive (40,00 mm/year - Villahermosa).
It is distributed over two seasons: May to July and September to March. Land
clearing is performed during the short "less humid" periods in April and
August. Most of the Sub-Project Area is well provided with natural permanent
stock water supplies. The exception is the Yucatan, which has no permanent
streams or rivers but good groundwater resources. Approximately 75% of the
area has good soils with good drainage.  The remaining 25% is partially flooded
(mostly in the Villahermosa Area); however, on a selective basis, some of the
ranches in this area could qualify for loans on the basis of productivity po-
tential. Infrastructure in general is adequate for livestock development.
General Description
4.09      This Sub-Project iB prinarily for cattle development; it would help
to utilize more fully the tropical area involved. The loans would go to com-
mercial ranches. The Sub-Project Area has been divided into five areas: (a)
Villahermosa Well Drained; (b) Villahermosa Flooded; (c) Yucatan; (d) Wet
Huasteca; and (e) Dry Huasteca (Map 2). Each area has different investment
requirements reflecting its different physical characteristics.
Cattle Development
4.10      The Sub-Project area is prinncially one of beef production.   Milk
and milk products are a by--product, Providing ranchers with important regular
income because the princinal earnings from the sale of slaughter cattle occurs
only once or twice each year. Lending for cattle (both beef and dairy), under
the Countrywide Sub-Project, would be excluded from this Area. The projected
2,200 loans for cattle development would have an average investment cost per
loan of approximately US$35 thousand eouivalent. The granting of loans would
be phased over three years.   Cur,rently, the Huasteca is the most important
beef producing region in Mexico. Miany of its ranchers were beneficiaries
under Loan 430-ME.  Because of the relending under Loan 430-ME the Huasteca
would in effect receive approximately 50% of the cattle development funds
earmarked for the Wet Tropics. Major investment categories of the Sub-Project
are: (a) breeding stock, 40%; (b) land improvement and development, 37%; (c)
agricultural machinery and equipment, 13%; and (d) construction and instal-
lations, 10%0. Land clearing and pasture establishment account for 25% of
the total investment cost. A detailed breakdown of investment costs is given
in Annex 6, TaDle 5. The proposed Sub--Project is summarized below:



- 13 -
Areas
Item                        Villahermosa        Yucatan   Huasteca    Total
Well Drained  Flooded              Wet  ry
No. of Loans                1,100       200       100     600   200    2,200
Perente    of Total                                         27     9     100
Average Investment
Per Loan (US$ '000)          36.0      24.0      24.0    40.0   40.0    35.8
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
4.11      Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in Mexico.    An addi-
tioial 10% is included to cover contingencies.   Additional working capital
needed to finance operating expenses of producers, especially during the early
period of on-farm development, and in particular for livestock and perennial
crop enterprises, is included as part of total Project cost. Estimates of
incremental working capital requirements are based on actual experience under
430-ME, and upon the projected financial position of sub-borrowers derived
from representative models. The total Project cost is estimated at US$200
million (Annex 7). A brief summary is given below:
Total Project- Cost1'
(US '000,$000       X     %
Categories               (Pesos 000,000)            Equivalent)        TPC   FEC
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Tota   2/     3/
Livestock
Countrywide          322.7   138.3   461.0    25.8    11.1     36.9   19    30
Southeastern         827.4   157.6   985.0    66.2    12.6     78.8   39    16
Annual Crops           140.1    65.9   206.0    11.2      5.3    16.5    8    32
Perennial Crops         77.9    17.1    95.0     6.2      1.4     7.6    4    18
Agro-Industries        215.7   217.3   433.0    17.2     17.4    34.6   17    50
Technical Services       8.2    11.8    20.0     0.7      0.9     1.6    1    59
Working Capital        300.o4!_ -      300.0    2    4/   -      24.0   12    17
Total Project Cost   1.892.0   608.0 2,50.03             48.7   200.0  100    26
1/  Figures are rounded and do not include commitment fees and interest on
IBERD loan dluring the development period.
2/ Total Project Cost.
3/ Foreign Exchange Component.
4/ Level of additional working capital required to operate investments; its
aggregate foreign exchange component over the disbursement period is about
US$4 million.



- ih -
4.12      In addition to the direct foreign exchange component of the Project
(US$48.7 million), shown in the table above, there would be aggregate foreign
exchange costs of US$4 million included in the working capital, and commitment
charges and interest on external borrowings during the disbursement period of
about US$12 million.
Financing
4.13      The Project would be financed ass follows: producers, 20%; partici-
pating banks, 16%; FONDO, 32%; and IBRD, 32%. The IBRD loan would not be
used for financing working capital. The financing of the Project is summa-
rized as follows:
Participa-
Producers  ting Banks   FONDO       IBRD       Total
Categories( (Amt.) (%)                   (Amt.) (%) (Amt.) (%) (Amt.) (%)
(US$'000,000 Equivalent)_/
Livestock
Countrywide           5.9   16   5.9    16  11.0   30  14.1   38  36.9  loo
Southeastern         15.4   20  13.0    16  22.0   28  28.4   36  78.8  loo
Annual Crops            2.6    16   2.6   16   5.0   30   6.3   38  16.5  100
Perennial Crops         1.2    16   1.2   16   2.3   30   2.9   38   7.6  loo
Agro-Industries         6.7    20   5.5   16   9.9   28  12.5   36  34.6  loo
Technical Services          -     -       -    0.8   50   0.8   50   1.6  loo
Working Capital         7.2    30   3.8   16  13.0   54    -    -   24.0  loo
Total Project Cost     39.0    20  32.0   16  641.0  32  65.0   32 200.0  100
1/  Figures are rounded and do not include commitment fees and interest on the
IBRD loan during the develoTiment period.
The FONDO and the IBRD would contribute about equally to the total Project
cost. Producer contributions, technical services costs and working capital
account for US$57.4 million equivalent. The balance of approximately US$142.6
million equivalent would be made available for medium- and long-term development
loans. It is expected that participating credit institutions would finance,
with their own resources, about 20% (US$28.2 million) of total development
loans. The balance of about US$114.4i million equivalent would be rediscounted
with the FONDO.  The amount rediscounted would be financed 44% with FONDO
resources and 56% from the IBRD loan.



- 15 -
D. Organization and Management
IMject Administration
4.14      As under Loan 430-M4E, the FONDO would administer the Project as
Trustee for the BA1NXICO. The field organization of the FONDO, now numbering
about 160 technicians, with 24 resident offices and two agency offices, serves
all the important agricultural areas of the Country. It is essentially a
technical services agency. There are approximately 40 senior technicians lo-
cated at the central office in Mexico City. Approximately 120 new technical
staff would be added by FONDO for the Project. The other credit organizations
involved in the Project now employ more than 400 field technicians, most of
whan are BANAGRO employees. The participating private banks as well as
BANAGROS plan to augment their technical staff.   In addition, the Project
would provide for: (a) a technician training program; (b) a farmer training
cen-ter; (c) a farmer training program; and (d) the necessary consultants,
foreign travel and other Project technical service requirements (for details
see Annex 6, Table 6, cited in Para 4.04).
4.15      The organization of the FONDO is sound.   However, organizational
arrangements needed to be established for the Southeastern Sub-Project and
somie adjustment was required to meet the technical service needs of both
proposed Sub-Projects. The Southeastern Sub-Project has many special re-
quirements (Para 4.01).  For this reason, and to enable management to be
more efficient and flexible, the FONDO has decided to undertake intensive
reorganization and to decentralize its operations by establishing regional
offices. The office in Villahermosa is to be the first to be upgraded to the
level of a regional office. It is to be headed by a Regional Resident, and
field operations would be under the direction of a Regional Technical Sub-
Resident. A General Coordinator is to be appointed for the Las Huastecas
Region until the Tampico office can be made into a regional office. The
duties and responsibilities of these jobs are being defined in consultation
with the IBRD. The FONDO's organizational chart for the Southeastern Sub-
Project is given in Annex 8. Understandings regarding these organizational
changes were reached during the negotiations and action on them is a condition
of disbursement for this Sub-Project.
4.16D     The future success in achieving Project objectives greatly depends
on -the quality as well as the extent of technical services to be provided
by the FONDO and the participating banks. Organizational and staffing re-
adjustments are needed to improve efficiency and to ensure that senior tech-
nica.l staff dedicate full time to lending operations and are given appropriate
authority and responsibility. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
regarding readjustments of the FONDO, to strengthen the management and effect-
iveness of technical services and monitor and measure the Project's impact.
An organizational chart, accompanied by appropriate functional descriptions
for key FONDO positions, was submitted at the time of loan negotiations and
agreed upon. The organizational and staffing adjustments agreed during
negotiations are being set forth in a BANXICO directive to the FONDO. It
reflects the major proposed readjustments, which are:
(a) that the two technical coordinators and one senior technician
for each of the three Technical Groups in the Central Office



- 16 -
(Livestock, Agriculture, and Agro-Industries) would be named
and their duties and responsibilities redefined; and
(b) that a Committee for planning and coordinating technical
services, including cooperation with participating banks,
would be established in the Central Office. This Committee
would also be responsible for recommending the employment of
consultants as needed.
4.17      An assurance was obtained that the FONDO would intensify its
promotional and informational work regarding production of improved varieties
of plants and cuttings for perennial crops, as well as improved selected seeds.
The FONDO will also continue the practice, initiated under Loan 430-ME, of
obtaining approval by technicians of the Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources
on evaluation of loans containing a major component of on-farm irrigation
works.
4.18      Furthermore, during negotiations assurance was obtained that
the FONDO would intensify its promotional and informational work regarding
the proposed lending and rediscounting program at the level of the partici-
pating banks and sub-borrowers (Para 3.07). Assurance was likewise ob-
tained that the FONDO woula periodically review with the participating banks
the use of their credit lines (Para 3.07).
Terms and Conditions of Lending and Rediscounting
4.19      As with Loan 1;30-M, -the Borrower would be the Nacional Financiera.
The term would be 20 years, including five years of grace. The FONDO, as ad-
ministrative agency, would channel the funds to producers through partici-
pating banks. All regional BPNAGROS would participate in the program as under
Loan 430-ME. Private participating credit institutions are approved by the
BANXICO.
4.20      Under Loan 430-ME, as mentioned earlier, participating banks re-
discounted on average 87, of el:Lgible loans with the FONDO, thus using
marginal amounts of their own resources. With existing rediscount rates,
maximum rediscounting gave participating banks the highest return on their
own funds. Under this Project, participating banks are expected to rediscount
on average 80% of loans made to sub-borrowers. To encourage private banks to
invest a larger proportion of their own funds in the Project, rediscount rates
needed to be revised. An appreciable increase in the rediscount rate might,
however, reduce rather than increase participation by private credit insti-
tutions, who might find more profitable outlets for their resources outside
of agriculture, or alternatively, continue to restrict their agricultural
activities mainly to short-term financing. The revision of rediscount and
interest rates based on size of loan to beneficiaries was discussed with the
Mexican negotiators and agreement was reached on the following pattern, con-
sidered the most appropriate schedule to encourage greater financi, l partici-
pation by private credit institutions in the Project. Appropriate assurances
were obtained that the following rediscount and interest rates would be ap-
plied under the Project:



- 17 -
Size of Loans to             /a of Loan        Fediscount       Interest
Beneficiaries             Rediscounted         Rates            Rates
lUp to Pesos                     90                                10%
500,000                        80                6%              10%
70                 5%              10%
Betwenen 500,000 and             80                 7%             11%
1,500,000 Pesos                70                6pt             le11
More than 1,500,000              70                 7%              11%
Pesos
4.21      Lending policies, terms, and criteria to the sub-borrowers would be
somewhat modified, and interest charges of the participating banks to Loan
beneficiaries would be as shown above (Para 4.20). Moreover, as under Loan
430-ME, a technical service fee of 1% on the sub-loan amount would be charged
to each agro-indiustrial sub-borrower. Participating banks have recently been
authorized by the Banking Commission to grant grace periods of up to three
years upon recoimmendation of the FONDO.
4.22      Under Loan 430-ME, loans to sub-borrowers for over US$200,000 equiv-
alen-t required IBRD approval. Under the propbsed Project, this ceiling would
be raised to US$400,000 equivalent because of the experience and improved
competence developed by the FONDO. This was agreed upon during negotiations.
4.23      Under the Countrywide Sub-Project, loan maturities to sub-borrowers
would generally be for a minimum of three years. The average term is expected
to be six years, including one year of grace. These criteria were assured
during negotiations.
4.24      Under the Southeastern Sub-Project, loan maturities to sub-borrowers
in the Villahermosa areas (well drained and flooded) and in the Yucatan would
generally be for a total of seven years including two years of grace. A mini-
mum term of five years would be established and loan maturities would be up
to 10 years, the maximum under current regulations. The minimum grace period
would be one year but in general a two-year period would be expected. In
special cases, a grace period of three years or more would be granted. Assur-
ances on these issues were obtained during negotiations.
4.25      In the Wet and Dry Huasteca areas of the Southeastern Sub-Project,
ra4ches are further developed than in the rest of the southeastern region.
Lending terms, including grace periods, would be adapted as required. Terms
to newly established ranches would be the same as in other areas of the Sub-
Project (Para 4.24), while loans to well established ranches would be of shorter
life. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
Disbursements and Auditing
4.26      On the basis of requests submitted by the Nacional Financiera, the
IBRED would reimburse 56% of the discounted amounts of the medium- and long-term
sub-loans brought to the FONDO (as shown in the Statement of Expenditures of
eligible loans by participating banks). The IBRD would also reimburse for 50%



- 18 -
of the costs of additional technical services directly related to the Project.
Although most disbursements would be made during the first three years of the
Project, they would be spread over a longer period. This is because granting
of new loans by participating banks would be phased over three years, and some
farmers and ranchers (especially livestock and tree crops) would receive dis-
bursements over three years from the date their loans were granted; practically
speaking, total disbursements would be over five years. The FONDO would con-
tinue to use the Special Fund established under Loan 430-ME for purposes of
this Project. The accounting system of the FONDO is satisfactory. Auditing
is performed by the Auditing Department of the BANXICO, and this arrangement
would continue under the proposed Project. The Special Fund would be audited
annually by the BANXICO and the audit submitted to the IBRI) within three months
of the end of each fiscal year.
Procurement
4.27      International competitive bidding is generally not appropriate for
agricultural credit projects. The individual contracts are small and numer-
ous, and the size and mix of farm investments vary greatly from one another.
Investments in agro-industries, although much larger on average, are also ex-
tremely varied and too numerous to be subjected to international bidding.
Local competitive bidding was followed under Loan 430-ME, and no problems were
encountered; inputs for farm, ranch, and agro-industrial development were pro-
cured through regular commercial channels. Competition is keen among machinery
and equipment dealers and repair facilities and services are widespread and
good. There is also free and keen competition among dealers of other agri-
cultural inputs and among contractors of on-farm installations. Mexico has a
well organized system of dealerships with good repair facilities; and private
contractors are available to tao custom work with their own machinery. The
system of local competitive bidding, which is working well, would be followed
under the proposed Livestock and Agricultural Development Project. Permits
are required for imports of machinery and equipment. Some of the new agro-
industries may be exempt under a law dated January 4, 1955. During negoti-
ations, however, it was assured that Government would, upon the recommendation
of the FONDO, issue promptly as needed import permits for the machinery and
equipment required for the agro-industries financed under the Projiect.
MN1arkets and Marketing
4.28      The output from the ProJect would be marketed through normal com-
mercial channels. This system has been satisfactory for Loan 430-ME and the
proposed Project can function effectively within the existing marketing frame-
work. however, per capita incoBe and total population are growing rapidly;
demand for processed foods is increasing rapidly. Loans for processing in-
dustries were made under Loan 430-ME and these facilities would be further
augmented under the proposed Project. The increased output of the Project
would consist mainly of commodities projected by BANXICO to be in strong
demand. This is especially true for beef, which is the major output of the
Project. It is expected that current domestic prices of the commodities in-
volved would not decrease below their existing levels. Moreover, the estab-
lished trade with the United States fo, weaner calves (from the northern
states) and for some othe>r agriculturafL commodities is capable of accepting
the projected increases in these goods.



- 19
The FONDO's Finances as Related to the Project
4.29      The projected financial operating results of the FONDO, as related
to the Project, are presented in Annex 9. They axe based on the assumption
that participating banks would on average rediscount 80% of loans made to sub-
borrowers at 7%. It is also assumed that Government would amortize the IBRD
loan as a contribution to the principal of the trust fund, thereby assuring
finencial soundness of the Special Fund. Additionally, it was assumed, as
under Loan 430-ME, that a technical service fee of 1% would be charged on the
face value of each sub-loan made to agro-industrial beneficiaries. Assurances
were obtained auring negotiations that all excess funds accruing to the Special
Fund -- that is, in excess of those required to meet the FONDO's obli;ations
arising out of this Project --- would be relent for agriculture and on terms
similar to those of the Project. On average, maturities of sub-loans would
be about six years for the Countrywide Sub-Project and 'eeven years for the
Southeastern Sub-Project; maximum maturities would fall due after 13 years
(Southeastern Sub-Project). Using the average maturities as gUideB, coupled
with Government's repayment of the principal of the IBRD loan, and providing
there is no slippage, in addition to the initial round of lending and redis-
counting, slightly more than two complete rollovers of the repayments under
sub-loans would be possiple under a 20-year maturity. Because of the urgent
need to promote medium- and long-term investment in Mexico's agriculture, it
was assured that repayments not needed for administrative costs and debt
servicing would remain in the Special Fund for further lending and rediscount-
ing. Continued and uninterrupted lending for on-farm investments would enable
the FONDO to plan and prepare for an appropriate level of activities and en-
sure full use of the professional staff selected and trained to provide Project
related technical services.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The benefits were assessed in terms of the increased output made
possible by the Project. The benefits to participating ranches, farms and
agro-industries were estimated on the basis of representative development
models. Models were prepared for the most important commodities/species of
the four major enterprises (livestock, annual and perennial crops, agro-
industries) for each of the five principal ecological regions of the country.
The projected physical impact, set forth in terms of incremental production,
has been derived from these models (Annex 10). Market prices, and where ap-
propriate, prices paid to the producers, were used. After full development,
the Project would contribute about US$8.0 million annually to Mexico's export
earnings.
5.02      Livestock: At full development, animal products would approximate
US$91 million equivalent per year (at current domestic prices). Output for
domestic consumtion (with some replacement of imports, e.g. milk products)
is estimated at approximately 360,000 metric tons with an annual value of
about US$90 million equivalent. At full production, after seven years, in-
cremental sales of 17,000 male weaners to the United States would contribute
about US$1.2 million annually to export earnings.



- 20 -
5.03      Annual Crops: At full operation, at the end of the third year, pro-
duction of annual crops -Tould be about 130,000 metric tons.  Valued at current
producer prices, the gross value would. total about US$18 million equivalent
per year.  About 90% of thIs would be derived from cotton, cereals and oil-
seeds. The bulk would be for do3nestic consumption; about 10% (mostly cotton
and vegetables) -would be exported.
5.04      Perennial Crop: At full development, annual output would be about
215,000 metric tons. The bulk would be for domestic consumption.   Valued at
current producer prices, the grOss valule would be about US$16 million equiva-
lent,. About 90, v!ould come frorn. fruit and tree crops, the remainder chiefly
from alfalfa and sugarcane.
5.05      Agro-Industries: At normal capacity (in the fourth or fifth year),
value added by processing, storage, and handling would be close to us$60 mil-
lion equivalent, divided almost evenly between l.vestock and agricultural com-
modities.  Commodities -w%ith a `.otal value of almost US$300 million equivalent
would be processed or handled.  About 74% would be livestock products, the
remaining 26%o other a,ricultaraJ, comiodities. The bulk would be for domestic
consumption; about %Zl would be exported.
5.o6      Returns to Ultimate Bereficiaries: The returns on investment by sub-
borrowers are detailed in Annex 11, Appendix 1. They range from 12% for poultry
in the Irrigated Worth and Ceiftral Plateau to 72!% for mixed crops in the Irri-
gated North. Under the Countrywide Sub-Proiect, the financial rates of return
are for: Livestock, 21); Annual Crops, 29%; Perennial Crops, 48%; and Agro-
Industries, 35/e . The finwacial rate of return for the Countrywide Sub-Project
is 28%0 and 35% fo;. the Southeastern Sub-Project, resulting in an average re-
turn on investment for th2 ?r-ojert of 32%"' (Annex 11, Appendix 2).
5.07      Rate of Returnm The rate of return to the economy for the Country-
wide Sub-Project is abou!; 28'.% and about 314% for the Southeastern Sub-Project,
resulting in an overall Projec-t rate of return of 317, based on a 1) year life
and adjusted for technical services and taxes (-Annex II, Appendix 3). This
would be a satisfactory return, indicating the high priority of this Project.
5.08      Indirect Benefits: In addition to the benefits specified above,
there would be other benefits which are difficult to quantify. By providing
incentives ana institutional frameworks through 'which the private and public
banking systems can increase their investments in agriculture, as well as
further commercialization through processing and marketing, the Project would
render balanced siupport to t?me long range development of Mexican agriculture.
It would make a major contribution in sustaining the increases in production
and productivity achieved by Mexico's agriculture during the last 4o years.
VI. CONCLJSIONS AND RECOl.lENDATIONS
6.01      The Projec-t woul'd substantially increase Mexico's production of
crops, both ainual and. perernnia, and livestock; it would promote processing
and handling facilities for conercial agriculture. I-t consists of a well



- 21 -
balanced program of high priority investments. The investmenti would be sup-
ported by extensive and competent banking facilities and technical services.
The return on investment is satisfactory, both to individual sub-borrowers
and the economy as a whole.
6.02      The Project is soundly conceived, economically justified, and suit-
able folc an IBRD loan of US$65 million. The borrawer would be the Nacional
Financiera. An appropriate term would be 20 years including five years of
grace. The rediseount approach to financing the Project is satisfactory.
The Project would be financed in the first instance by participating insti-
tutions, both private and public; then the FONDO would rediscount these loans
(70%O to 90% of their value), using IBPD/BANXICO funds.
6.0:3     During negotiations, assurances satisfactory to the IBRD were ob-
tained regarding:
(a)  establishment of a regional office for the effective
management of the Southeastern Sub-Project in consultation
with the IBRD (Para 4.15); appointment of a Regional
Resident, a Regional Technical Sub-Resident and a General
Coordinator for Las Huastecas as a condition of disbursement
under this Sub-Pro,ect, with appropriately defined duties
and responsibilities for the Sub-Project (Para 4.15); and
strengthening the FONDO's organizational and operational
procedures to better meet the technical service needs of
both the Southeastern and the Countrywide Sub-Projects
(Para 4.15);
(b)  preparation of functional descriptions for key FONDO
positions (Para 4.16) following an organizational
chart agreed with the IBRD. This was submitted at
negotiations and estabiishes the basis for adjusting
the FONDO's organization to the Project's requirements,
including appropriate bases for measuring Project impact
(Para 4.16);
(c)  appointment of Senior Technicians for each of the three
Technical Groups (Livestock, Agriculture and Agro-industries)
with duties and responsibilities of each clearly re-
defined (Para 4.16); and establishment of a Committee for
planning and coordinating technical services, including
cooperation with banks; and cause this Committee to be
responsible also for recommending the employment of
consultants as needed (Para 4.16);
(d)  expansion of promotional work regarding the production
of improved varieties of plants and cuttings for
perennial crops, as well as improved selected seeds
in the amount and time required by the ProJect (Para
4.17);
(e) intensification of promotional and informational
work regarding the proposed lending and rediscounting



- 22 -
program at the level of the participating banks and
sub-borrowers (Para 4.18); and periodically review
with the participating banks the use of their credit
lines (Para 4.18);
(f) a revision in the pattern of rediscount rates by the
FONDO to participating bahks and interest rates to
beneficiaries by participating banks to encourage
participating banks to invest a larger percentage of
their own funds in the Project (Para 4.20);
(g) prior approval by the IBRD of any loan to a sub-
borrower in excess of US$400,O00 equivalent (Para
4.22);
(h) appropriate arrangements on the terms and conditions
for lending to sub-borrowers under the Project (Paras
4.23 to 4.25);
(i) prompt issuance of import permits for the agro-industrial
machinery and equipment required for the Project (Para
4.27); and
(J) the use of the repayments of loans by sub-borrowers
for further lending and rediscounting for purposes
similar to those of the project (Para 4.29).



ANNEX 1
M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOGWENT PROJECT
THE ROLE OF THE B.ANKING SYSTEM
IN THE FINANCING OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK
A. Banks Engaged in Lending to
Agriculture and Livestock
1.        The Mexican banking system consists of two sectors:   official
banks--those which aLre owned totally by the Government of Mexico or where
it is the majority stockholder; and private credit institutions--those
organized under the General Law Governing Credit Institutions and Auxiliary
Organizations.
Official Banks
2.        The official banks engaged in lending to agricultur- and livestock
are the Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal (Banco Ejidal), the Banco Nacional
de Credito Agricola y Ganadero (Banco Agricola), and the seven regional
banks of the Banco Nacional Agropecuario system.
3.        The Banco Ejidal which was established in 1935 specialized in
providing credit to farmers organized in "ejidos" while the Banco Agricola,
established in 1926, concentrates on lending to small-scale farmers. The
collection record of these two banks have been very poor.
4..       In answer to the need for a financially viable institution that
can be an adequate channel for credit to agricultural and livestock producers
and an effective tool for the Mexican Government's objectives in the agri-
cultural and livestock sector, the Banco Nacional Agropecuario was established
in 1965 with a capital of 1.5 billion pesos.- It was directed: (a) to
organize reg:ional quasi-official agricultural banks; (b) to give financial
suipport to these institutions; and (c) to effect an adequate decentralization
of credit.
5.        The Banco Nacional Agropecuario now owns seven regional Banco
Agropecuarios. It functions as a bank of rediscount to the regional banks
and, in turn, has access to the rediscounting facilities of the Banco de
Mexico. The regional Banco Agropecuarios, on the other hand, emphasize not
only lending to large-scale farmers but, very importantly, the financing,
just as well, of small-scale farmers borrowing as a group. To assure
effective use of borrowed funds, they have built, and are building, strong
technical organizations to aid farmer-borrowers in their long-range plans
and objectives.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Private Credit Institutions
6.        There are six types of private credit institutions which have
made loans to agriculture and livestock:   commercial banks ("bancos de
deposito"); savings banks (generally thp savings department of commercial
banks); "financieras" (investment banks which have the power to issue
bonds and certificates of' indebtedness, purchase and hold securities of
other enterprises, and grant loans of up to 30 years maturity); mortgage
banks; capitalization banks; and trust companies.
B. LendinE to Agriculture and Livestock
Introduction
7.        Although lending to agriculture and livestock has remained at
the level of 12-14% of total loans of the banking system, nevrertheless,
in absolute terms, credit assistance to the sector has steadily grown:
from a little less than 3.5 billion pesos in 1957--to 7.4 billion pesos
in 1962--to 15 billion pesos in 1967 (Appendix 1). The share of private
banks have been slightly more than that of official banks (both in short-
term and medium- and long-term financing), however, with the emergence
of the BANAGROS, lending by official banks have exceeded those by private
banks beginning in 1967 (Appendix 2).
Lending by Private Credit Institutions
8.        Practically all lending to agriculture and livestock by private
credit institutions is made by commercial banks and their savings depart-
ments and by "financieras". Although available to them, private banks
have rarely granted loans on the guarantee of the Fondo de Garantia y
Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO), preferring to
assume the full risks on such loans. The majQrity of loans have been to
agriculture, but more and more loans are being made to livestock, reflecting
the increasing importance of the latter sector (Appendix 2).
9.        The greater part of the agricultural and livestock loans of
private credit institutions are for short-term (up to two years).   This
is understandable considerirng that the bulk of their lending funds are
withdrawable on demand and the added fact that loans to agriculture and
livestock-especially on medium- or long-term-- are relatively high risk
operations. Moreover, with higher rates of interest and other fees
(commissions, inspection fees, etc.) allowed to be charged for short-term
loans as compared to those generally collected on medium- and long-term
loans, private credit institutions find such operations more attractive.
10.       To assure participation by banks located in the Federal District
in the financing of Mexican agriculture, these banks are recuired by
reguilations to keep a part of thier reserves against deposit liabilities



ANNEX 1
Page 3
in the form of "cattle bonds". Proceeds from these bonds ("cattle bonds"
are obligations of the Mexican Government) are used by the FONDO to finance
more than half of the rediscounts of Sgricultural paper brought to it by
private banks.
Lending by Official Banks
11.       Prior to the establishment of regional banks of the Banco Nacional
Agropecuario chain, the only official banks engaged in agricultural credit
wexie the Banco Ejidal and the Banco Agricola (Ptras. 2 and 3). With the
full operation of some regional Banco Agropecuarios--notably, the Banco
Agropecuario del Sureste in Tabasco--in the latter part of 1966, the share
in. total institutional agricultural credit of official. banks rose to 60.6%
in 1967 from 51-53% during 1963-66.
12.       Sirice 1964, the great bulk of agricultural loans by official banks
were for short-term (up to two years), as a result of a Government policy
(arising out of the continued poor collection record of the Banco Ejidal
and Banco Agricola) to allocate, as much as is possible, loanable funds of
these two institutions to short-term needs.   With the coming into full
operation of the regional Banco Agropecuarios, it is expected that there
would be an increase in lending for livestock and agricultural development
on medium- aid long-term conditions.
13.       Around 80% of the agricultural loans of official banks have been
for general agriculture. This is understandable since the Banco Ejidal and
the Banco Agricola deal largely with "ejidatarios" and small-scale farmers.
With the advent of the regional Banco Agropecuarios, it is expected that
there would be increase in loans to the livestock sector.
C. Loan Terms and Conditions
Maturity
14.       "Habilitacion" or "avio" loans, whose proceeds are designed to
meet current farming expenses, may be granted for terms of up to two years
ir. the case of commercial and savings banks, and up to three years in the
case of "financieras". On the other hand, "refaccionario" loans, which are
for the acquisition of farm machinery and equipment, construction of farm
buildings and improvements, purchase of farm animals, opening of new. lands
for farming, establishment of pasture, orchards, and plantations, etc.,
may be granted for terms of up to ten years in the case of commercial and
savings banks and also ten years in the case of "financieras".
15.       The General Law Governing Credit Institutions and Auxiliary
Organizations provides that no amortization payments can cover a period of
more than 12 months, excepting with the permission of the Secretary of
Finance and Public Credit after consulting the Bank of Mexico. For this
reason, grace periods of more than one year must be referred to the
Secretary of Finance and Public Credit who decides such requests on a case
by case basis.



ANNEX 1
PageV
Collaterals
16.       An "avio" loan must be secured by the raw materials acquired from
the proceeds of the loan, if any, and, in any case, by the expected pro-
duction of the farming operation being financed. An "avio" loan for more
than one year, in addition to the usual collaterls, must be secured by a
real estate mortgage.
17.       A "refaccionario loan" must be secured by the assets acquired
from the proceeds of the loan and the produce of the farming operation
being developed or improved.
18.       No loan may exceed 50% of the collateral guarantee, excepting in
the case of "financieras" which may lend up to 75% of the security.    As a
matter of practice, credit institutions use market price in determining the
value of collaterals, thus offsetting in an important way the very conser-
vative provisions of law.
Interest Rates
19.       Both official and private credit institutions charge 12% per
annum for "avio" loans and 10 to 12% per annum for "refaccionario" loans.
In addition, private credit institutions generally require their borrowers
to maintain a deposit account with the lending institution of from 10o to
20% of the loan, thereby increasing the effective interest rate by 1.3%
to 3% per annum in the case of "avio" loans and 1.1% to 2.5% per annums in
the case of "refaccionario" loans.
20.       Some private credit institutions, especially "financieras",
charge commission fees of 1% per annum on the unpaid balance of the loan
plus inspection fees of around 200 pesos.
D. Sources of Funds
21.       In principle, lending funds for "avio" loans come from demand
deposits (in Mexico, deposits subject to check and savings deposits) and
in the case of "financieras", from bonds and time certificates of indebted-
ness. In practice, however, a large part of the loans by private credit
institutions for agriculture and livestock ("avio" and "refaccionario")
come from rediscounts from the FONDO. Sources of funds of the FONDO are
discussed in Annex 2.
22.       Credit institutions pay 4Ω-% per annum for savings deposits and
from 6-8% per annum for time deposits, except "financieras" which pay as
much as 9% per annum for the latter kind of c.eposits. Funds from the
FONDO cost from 5-7% per annum (depending on the portion of the loarl being
rediscounted) and 4% for funds from the ALPRO-IDB program (Annex 2).



M E X I C O
LIVESTocK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL LoANS GRANTED BY MEXICAN BANKS
(Amounts in Mlllions of Pesos)
Agriculture &
Indastry                Livestock                Mining               Co     rce           Federal Gov't.
$ to              %to        ~$ to                               %to                      tlo
Year         Total         Amount     Total        Amount     Total      Amount      Total       Amount      Total       Amount      Total
1950         8,972.7       4,oo9.6     44.7        1,059.9     11.8          25.8     0.3        1,811.1      20.2       2,066.3      23.0
1951       10,767.3        5,386.9      50.0       1,230.0     11.4          26.4     0.3        2,307.6      21.4       1,816.4      16.9
1952        11,887.5       5,836.3     49.1        1,507.1     12.7          20.5     0.2        2,546.5      21.4       1,977.1      16.6
1953       13,497.8        6,644.4     49.2        2,015.8     14.9          21.2     0.2        2,437.2      18.1       2,379.2      17.6
1954        16,8u.4        8,544.8     50.9        2,103.5     12.5          44.1     0.2         3,151.7     18.7        2,967.3     17.7
1955       17,672.7        8,252.5     46.7        2,786.7     15.8          57.5     0.3         3,390.3     19.2        3,185.7     18.0
1956       19,657.6        9,152.9     46.7        3,277.3     16.6          50.8     0.3         4,173.9     21.2        3,002.7     15.2
1957        22,464.0      10,483.4      46.7       3,561.4     15.8          60.3     0.3         4,733.9     21.1        3,625.0     16.1
1958       26,583.3       12,609.5      47.4       3,998.8     15.0          64.4     0.2         5,330.8     20.1        4,579.8     17.3
1959        31,269.0      15,076.7      48.2       4,738.5     15.2          67.8     0.2         7,116.6     22.7        4,269.4     13.7
1960        39,780.5      19,798.8      49.8       5,811.9     14.6          62.9     0.2         8,463.6     21.3        5,643.3     114.1
1961       46,055.9       24,424.1      53.0       6,582.8     14.3          78.5     0.2         9,495.3     20.6        5,475.2     11.9
1962        53,454.4      30,536.2      57.0       7,360.7     13.8         240.4     0.5         9,704.4     18.2        5,612.7     10.5
1963        61,251.5      32,800.4      53.6       8,237.0     13.4         213.3     0.4        1,0o42.8     18.0        8,958.0     114.6
1964        74,434.9      38,700.0      52.0       9,317.9     12.5         242.7     0.3        13,318.2     17.9       12,856.1     17.3
1965        87,374.o      42,044.2      48.0      10,635.3     12.2         231.4     0.3        13,989.7     16.0       20,473.4     23.5
1966       104,629.5      46,945.5      44.8      12,547.4     12.0         627.1     0.6        17,123.2     16.4       27,386.3     26.2
1967       121,105.3      55,301.6      45.7      14,025.6     11.6       1,010.3     0.8        20,697.8     17.1       30,070.0     24.8
1968      138,392.6       61,479.4      LLL.L     1S,464.3      11.2      1,198.7     0.9        24,748.4     17.9       35,501.8      25.6
Source: Banco de Mexico.






M E 1 I C 0
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK LOAN PORTFOLIO OF MEXICAN BANKS AS OF DATES INDICATED
(In Mllions of Pesos)
December 31, 1965                 December 31, 1966                 December 31, 1967
ITEM                  Term to    Term Beyond            Term to    Term Beyond            Term to    Term Beyond
2 Years     2 Years     Total     2 Years     2 Years     Total     2 Years     2 Years     Total
PRIVATE CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
1. On Hand
(a) Commercial Banks               3,178.5      252.1     3,430.6   3,351.0       240.7     3,591.7   3,5140.9     192.5      3,733.4
(b) Savings Banks                    493.4      227.6       721.0     589.8       125.4       715.2     426.1      104.6        530.7
(c)  "Financisras"                 1,298.0      517.3     1,815.3   1,446.2       576.5     2,022.7   1,207.0       481.2     1,688.2
(d) Others                            3.2        76.o        79.2       4.0        63.2        67.2       5.2        79.9        85.1
Total Portfolio on Hand       4,973.1    1,073.0      6,046.1   5,391.0    1,005.8     6,396.8    5,179.2      858.2      6,037.4
2. Rediscounted with FONDO                 55.8      652.8        708.6     119.9      937.7      1,057.6     197.2     1,037.6     1,234.8
Total Portfolio of Private
Credit Institutions           5,028.9    1,725.8     6,754.7    5,510.9    1,943.5      7,454.4   5,376.4    1.895.8      7,272.2
OFFICILL BANKS
1. On Hand                               4,983.3    1,471.8     6,455.1   5,744.3     1,536.1     7,280.2   7,515.0     1,785.8     9,300.8
2. Rediscounted with FONDO                 -           -           -         -          xx           -         -           28.5        28.5
Total Portfolio of
Official Banks                4,983.3    1,471.8      6,455.1   5,744.3    1,536.1      7,280.2   7,515.0    1,814.3      9,329.3  H
X
TOTAL PaRTFOLIO OF MEXICAN BARNKS       10,012.2    3,197.6    13,209.8  11,255.2     3,479.6    14,734.6  12,891.4     3,710.1    16,601.5   W
xx Negligible                                                                                                                                 r






ANNEX 2
M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE FONDO DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO
PARA LA AGRICULTURA, GANADERIA Y AVICULTURA
A. Powers
1.        The Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia,
y Avicultura (FONDO) was established by the Government of Mexico (Government)
wiTh the objective of supporting and promoting agriculturel and livestock
development. It is empowered to carry out the following operations:
(a) to rediscount paper of private credit institutions
representing loans of all maturities to agricultural,
livestock, and poultry producers;
(b)  to extend loans to private credit institutions so
that they may, in turn, grant credit to these producers;
(c) to guarantee the repayment o1f loans that private
credit institutions may grant to such producers; and
(d) to carry out such other lending or rediscounting
operations as may be necessary in the furtherance of
its objectives, provided that this shall be carried
out through private credit institutions; later modified
to include the public Banco Nacional Agropecuario chain
(BANAGROS).
In creating the FONDO, the intention of Government was to use the private
banks as the chanlel of funds to agricultural and livestock producers.
However, in the Trust Agreement creating the Special Fund in the FONDO to
handle the lending program assisted by Loan 430-ME, it was specified that
the BANAGROS would have access to the rediscounting facilities of the
Special Fund.
B. Organization and Management
2.        To serve as a managing board, the FONDO has a Technical Committee
composed of ten members: three appointed by the Government to represent
"ejidatarios" and small-scale farmers, and a member each to represent the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Banco de Mexico
(BANXICO), the National Bank of Foreign Trade, the BANAGROS, the Mexican
Bankers' Association, and the National Agriculture Insurance Company.



AqNEX 2
Page 2
3.        The principal powers of the Technical Committee are:    (a) to
authorize operations out of the resources of the FONDO; (b) to establish
interest rates, premia, and other charges to be collected on all transactionr;
(c) to approve the FONDO's annual expense budget; and (d) to exercise other
powers entrusted to it by lawful decrees, contracts, or trust agreements.
4.        The administration of the FONDO's activities is under the general
supervision of BANXICO, as Trustee.   The FONDO has its own office facilities
and personnel and operations are carried out under the immediate responsi-
bility of a full-time Director.
5.        The principal or central office of the FONDO is in M4exico City
where the following organizational units are located-    three technical
departments (Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Industries) under a Sub-
Director; four operational and service departments (Operations, Admin-
istrative, Accounting, and Publications) under another Sub-Director; and
three divisions (Supervision and Resident Offices, Statistics and Information,
and Credit and Special Research) reporting directly to the Directcr of the
FONDO. An organogram showing the relation of these units to each other is
given in Appendix 1.
6.        In the field, the FONDO maintains a satisfactory network of 24
resident offices and 2 agency offices (Appendix 2).   These field offices
are under the administrative supervision of the Division of Supervision and
Resident offices in the FONDO's Central Office, but the Division is not
involved in directing their technical work.
C. Technical Services
7.        Technicians in the field are engaged generally in two kinds of
work: (a) prior evaluation of projects under Loan 430-4E; and (b) inspec-
tion and supervision work as follows: (i) verification of use of fundls by
sub-borrowers in the case of ALPRO-IDB loans (Para. 10), loans financed
totally from the FONDO's own resources, and loans under Loan 430-ME; and
(ii) supervision of the progress of sub-loans financed under Loan 430-4E.
8.        Principally, because of the requirments that all sub-loans
financed with the assistance of Loan 430-ME must be based on previously
technically evaluated farm plans, the FONDO has energetically expanded its
technical staff during the last three years. Technicians of varying agri-
cultural disciplines rose from about 135 in 1965 to 195 on August 31, 1968.
Forty-one of these technicians were in the Central Office while 154 were in
the various resident and agency field offices. In general, field techn'cians
are well qualified and experienced. A number, however, are recent yomng
graduates from agricultural colleges who are beginning to gain sufficient
practical experience for evaluation and supervisory work.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
D. Lending Operations
9.        The present operations of the FONDO are carried out under three
programs: (a) operations financed out of two loahs df US$20 million each
granted by the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) under the
Alliance for Progress (ALPRO), and continued by another loan of US$20
million granted by the J-nteramerican Development Bank (IDB) in Novembbr,
1967; (b) operations financed totally out of its own resources; and (c)
operations financed out of its own resources and Loan 430-ME.
AL_RO-IDB Loans
10.       ALPRO-IDB funds are restricted to medium- and long-term loans to
small and lower-medium income farmers and "ejidatarios". These loans are
grEnted under certain conditions: for instance, a borrower--in order to
qualify--should be in farming as a major activity; he should have assets of
no more than 800 thousand pesos and an annual gross income of no more than
100 thousand pesos. No loan can be for more than 150,000 pesos. On June 30,
1968, the FONDO's outstanding portfolio of ALPRO-IDB loans was 389.9 million
pesos against 264.0 million pesos on December 31, 1965.
11.       Farmers pay 7 percent for their loans while participating credit
institutions, in turn, pay 4 percent on rediscounts from the FONDO. Thus,
credit institutions obtain a gross margin of 3 percent. This is the same
margin they would earn for handling the other medium- and long-term programs
of the FONDO (Appendix 3).
Loans Totally Financed from the Fondo's own resources
12.       In agreement with the IBRD, the FONDO had adopted a policy of
using its "free" resources 1/ exclusively for rediscounting short-term
agricultural loans of private institutions which, in general, support the
medium- and long-term projects financed by the FONDO. Because of this
policy, the short-term rediscount portfolio of the FONDO, which was only
55.8 million pesos on December 31, 1965, rose six-fold 2/ to 336.8 million
pesos by June 30, 1968.
13.       The rediscount rates for short-term paper are the same as those
for medium- end long-term loans (Appendix 3). However, whereas farmers pay
only ten percent per annum for medium- and long-term loans, credit institutions
are authorized to charge--and they collect--12 percent per annum for short-
term loans. The difference in the cost of credit to the farmer is because
of the policy of encouraging investments in agriculture.
1/ Funds not otherwise committed or belonging to the Special Fund created
to take care of operations under Loan 430-ME.
2/ The FONDO i.s still rediscounting some medium- and long-term loans out
of its own resources because of credit lines granted to private credit
institutions, before Loan 430-ME became effective in 1965, which are still
current.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Operations Under Loan 43044E
14.       Lending operations under the program assisted by Loan 4304ME are
described in detail in Annex 3.
E. Guarantee Operations
15.       The FONDO has engaged mainly in rediscounting transactions, very
little of transactions of guarantee, and has given no direct loan to any
private credit institution.  On September 30, 1968, outstanding commitment
was 72,000 pesos to guarantee a loan of 120,000 pesos granted by a private
bank to members of an Yteiido",
F. Sources and Cost of Funds
16.       The FONDO has the following sources of funds for its different
lending operations: (a) to finance short-, medium-, and long-term loans
totally out of its own resources:   (i) rediscounts from BANXICO; and (ii)
contributions from the Government (including accumulated net incomes);
(b) to finance ALPRO-IDB program: (i) loans from U.S. AID; and (ii) loans
from IDB; (c) to finance the program under Loan 43O-ME: (i) loan of
US$25 million from the IBRI); (ii) rediscounts from B.ANXICO; and (iiiX
contributions from the Government (including accumulated net income).
17.       On June 30, 1968, contributions of the Government for the
entire operations of the FONDO amounted to 122.4 million pesos--115.6
million pesos for direct contributions and 6.8 million pesos of accumulated
net income. Of this total, 5.3 million pesos were contributions to the
Special Fund created for the lending program under Loan 430-4ME, while 117.1
million pesos were contributions for the other operations of the FONDO.
18.       Rediscounts from the BANXICO reached the amoumt of 738-7 million
pesos on June 30, 1968. Of this total, 246.5 million pesos were needed
to support the lending program mnder Loan 430-ME, while 492.2 million pesos
were used for the other operations of the F'ONDO. BANXICO stands ready to
support the-operations of the FONDO (mainly from proceeds of cattle bonds
issued by the Government) and, therefore, the FONDO has no problem of
liquidity. Rediscounts from the BANXICO cost 3 percent per annum.
19.       Funds from Loan 430-ME cost the Fondo 51Ω% per a-nnum.  In addition,
the FONDO pays the Nacional Financiera (which is the official borrower umder
Loan 430-E) a service fee of l/8 of 1% per annum based on the outstarnding
borrowing from the IBRD which on September 30, 1968, was 2137.4 milliorn pesos.



ANNEX ,'
Page 5
G. Results of Operations
20.       Results of operations of the FONDO are shown in Appendix 4. The
FOND)O's main source of income is interest earned from rediscounts. It has
risen from a total of 48.8 million pesos in 1966; to 62.8 million pesos in
1961; to 37.0 million pesos in the first six months of 1968. Nevertheless,
income from this source has declined as a percentage of total income--from
95.2 percept in 1966 to 84.1 during the first half of 1968. On the other
hand, incoKne from investments in Government securities have risen from 4.3
of total income to 14.9% during the samne periods (Appendix 5).
21.       Total expenses of the FONDO have increased from 49.0 million pesos
in :L966 to 43.5 million pesos for the first half of 1968. More significant,
however, is the fact that as a percentage of total income, total expenses
have risen from 95.6 percent to 99.0 percent. The main items of expenses
are interest anad charges paid on money borrowed, which rose from 40.7 mil-
lion in 1966 to 50.4 million pesos during the first half of 1968 1/, and
salaries and provisions for employee welfare which increased from 16.2 mil-
lion pesos in 1966 to 13.5 million pesos in the first half of 1968,
accounted for by the expansion in the technical staff of the FONDO (Para. 8).
22.       The FONDO operates as a non-profit organization in achieving the
objectives for which it was created. The net income of the FONDO has been
just sufficient under such operational objectives--2.3 million pesos in
1966; 1.6 million pesos in 1967; and 0.46 million pesos during the first
half of 1968-- and has been made possible because of income from investments
in Government securities (Para. 20). FONDO cash is deposited with BANXICO
and is considered as investments in Government securities earning 8% per
annum.
H. Financial Condition
23.       The FONDO is in good financial condition.   Its risk assets
represent claims against sound credit institutions. The FONDO has never
had a rediscoumt which was not paid at maturity.   Its capital is unimpaired
(Appendix 6).
24.       The accounting system of the FONDO is highly satisfactory.
Auditing is performed by the Auditing Department of BANXICO.
1/ Increased borrowing by the FONDO is explained by the increase in its
investment and loan portfolios--from 713.0 million pesos on December 13,
1965 to 1,610.7 million pesos on June 30, 1968.






MEXICO
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONDO DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO PARA LA AGRICULTURA, GANADERIA, Y AVICULTURA
ORGANIZATION CHART
I     TECHNICAL     I
DIRECTOR                          --                       COMMITTEE
I   (SPECIAL FUND)  I
_ __ _I __ __"  __      -- ----- --~--~-----              ; 
----  --  Ö        F~-----       I--   -
I   I  I  EXECUTIVE     I    I     SPE(IAL                                               TECHNICAL
TECHNICAL     I    I    COMMITTEE          I     STUDIES      I                                        COMMITTEE
|  COMMITTEE       I      (ALPRO)          I    COMMISSION    I                                       SECRETARIAT
STATISTICS AND       CREDIT AND         SUPERVISION AND
REPORTS          SPECIAL STUDIES     RESIDENT OFFICES
NTN DEPARTMENT  OFOPERATIINFORMATION                                                                                              DEPT   TNETN
AMINISTRAT                NTING          OPERATIONS                   NAGRICULTURE                                                      LSTC
DEPARTME                 DEPARTMENT ~~~~SANDISTBICSATIND                                                                                    OFDI  RURAPEVIN  N
| DEPARTMENT        DEPARTMEN          DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT                                             DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT                  INDUSTRIES
RESIDENT
OFFICES
November 1968                                                                                                                                                         (R)IBRD-4158






7
LIVESTOCK     & ALRICULVRnL        DEVELOPMENT      PROJECT
FONDO     DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO           PARA   LA AGRICULTURA, GANADERIA Y AVICULTURA
' . .:.r __                   NETWORK      OF RESIDENT OFFICES
...I. . .. .... . . '  -  ;
si   .  ¢   ;g  :   :   ,:  : :  . : .  .  : .  : :  !   1 1  ,  T  L  11  h  i  i  T  L  '.  1:- 1  A  M  E  R  I  C  A  <   -:L  : F  M   .-x I:C  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.,''                                ''':. SED            RE IOA   RE'''''' I''D'''L'.'NT-q
is  :-m,  /
i: .GENC I ES  2                    -DURA W  .  ,         I , .El_DPM             T ,   '-,0J .,T -
C0        _ v GAlJdO*>~; .  - '
V REs lDEr!r OFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICHESA      _  I EI I rOR2Ti; \Alcor;  \_E_7,$,aOFC o SATRILTL 
-              EAJA   V.. A.                                      I,-\,AD    Pue bla
50-Sor40              I AC  HllAsTFf A  c - UE 
_.     -o I                                                         2 r  -,A
4-SJ1ALSOA           LAUE LA TIA)<                                 CERet        n 
-JALISCO             -.AA                            AGASCALlIE:S CPaO
Ach)CALIENT-_YUCA-'                  -                      ,-Ua        R- - 
7_- -  I  AL'O
M EDO. DE   NF yi r, -l∞ MJOR  C ITrIES
I I-TiLAXCALA      @,MEXICO D .F . rur:r.b0 D,UETEs-                                  !.                    { 
-!"A"',,"  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ olzf 310            40r K
I7 -IIAYAR I 
t3-zAcATrcAs                               ∞   100  7no  3:w0  ooKI                            , *  , 1009
IS-S;fI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAIC ALLISTO Uro,a;la
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.- .                                    .     o 






ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MY-LO DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO PARA AGRICULTURA oAIUDERIA. T AVICULTURA
REDISCOUNT AND INTERJEST RATE SCHEDUILE
Rediscount Rate       Interest Rate
Type of Loan and Rediscount      to Credit Institutionz   to Borrowers
1. 90% Rediscounted
a. Short-term. . . . . . . .             7                   12
b. Medium- and long-term . .             7                   10
c. Medium- and long-term
(ALPRO-IBD) . . . . . . .            4                    7
2. 80% Rediscounted
a. Short-term. . . . . . . .            6                    12
b. Medium- and long-term . .            6                    10
3. 70% Rediscounted
a. Short-term. . . . . . . .            5                    12
b. Medium- and long-term . .            5                    10






dt E X I C O
L TVESTOCK kND AGRICULTURkL DEVELOPM3N r PROJECT
FONDO DE GARANTIA I FO9ENTO PARA LA AGRICULTURA, GAILERRIA. I AVICULPURA
COMPARATIVE STATEMEgT OF NET INCOME
DURING riE PERIODS INDICATED
(kmounts in Millions of Pesos)
Jan. 1 - Dec. 31, 1966                                Jan. 1 - Dec. 31, 1967                                                  Jan. 1 - Jupa 30. }968
Loan       Other                       Loan 030-ME        Other Operations             Total                 Loan 430.Ma         Other Oerationw                Total
CATEGORY                           430-ME   Operations    Total       Amount    S to 1966    A ount   ,It966       Awount    f to 1966       mount    3 to 1967 Amount       S to  96AV Atount        S to 1967.Y.
INCOME:
interest from Rediscounts .........              .  3.421       45.374      4.1795     13.520       395       49.250       109       62.770       129        11.931       176       25.102       102         37.033       118
Interest from Investents .0.706                                  1.522       2.228      2.501       351        2.910       191        5.411       243          2.026       162       4.553       313          6.579       243
Other income ......... . .....                   .    -          0.254       0.254         _          -        1.855       730        1.855       730            -          -         0.402    4    3         0.402    4    3
Total Income ......... . .1....                  .  L.127       47.150      51.277     16.021       388       5S.015       115       70.036       137         13.957       174       30.057       111    44.014            126
UPENSES:
Honorarium:
Technical and Executive Comittee          . .0.060             0.208       0.268      0.060       100        0.201        98        0.264        99          0.026        87        0.091        89          0.117       89
Technical Assistance and Servics .-                            0.900       0.900      0.150       inf        0.694        77        0.811        94            -           0        0.350      101           0.350       83
Bank of Mexico .0.084                                          1.203       1.287      0.345       411        1.115        93        1.460       113          0.300       174        0.600       108          0.900      123
Interest and Charges Paid on:
Rediscounts with Bank of     exico       . .1.121             12.057      13.478      L.728       333       1o.867        90       15.595       116          3.438       145        6.868       126        10.306        132
AID Funds ....... . ........                   .    -          5.625       5.625        -          -        10.535       187       10.535       187            -          -         5.950       113          5.950      113
D3HD -u,ds ....... ........... .                  1.76S         -          1.768   9   .303       300         -           -          ..         300         5.N42        221          -         -           5.942       221
Salaries and Provision for Employee Welfare.        0.367       15.835      16.202       3.220       877      19.273       122       22.493       139          2.625       163       10.835       112         13.460       120
Administrative and General E     pense   s .0.317                7.947       8,261       2.024       638       8.410       106       10.464       127          1.451       143        4.259       101          5.710       109
Depreciation of Equipment .-                                     1.1.21       .214 '                  -        1.513       125        1.513       125            _           -        0.822       109          0.822       109
Total Expenses.                                     4.017       14.989   4   9.006      15.835       394      52.611       117       68.476       140         13.782       174       29.775       113    4     3.557       127
NET LNCOME                                            0.110        2.161       2.271       0.186       169        1.374        64       1.560        69          0.175       188        0.282         1          0.457        59
I/  Figures to June 30, 1968 bave been multiplied by 2 to obtain the relationship to 1967.
irI - Infinity






ME X I C 0
LrvrzSTCXK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
FONDO DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO PARA LA AGRICULTURA, GANADERIA Y AVICULTURA
PERCENTAGE ANALYSIS OF ITEM OF EIpNSES AND INCOME TO TOTAL INCOME
DURINRG TM~ PERIODS IND)ICATED
(Based on Figures in Appendix P-I)
Jan. 1 - Dec. 31, 1966            Jan. 1 - Dec. 31. 1967            Jan. 1- June 30, 1968
Loan      Other                  Loan      Other                   Loan      Other
CATS.ORY                         430-ME  Operations   Totals      430-ME   Operations   Totals      430-ME   Operations   Totals
INCOME:
Interest from Rediscount     .    .    .83.0                96.2       95.2        84.4       91.2       89.6        85.5       83.5       84.1
Interest from Investmwents  . 1    .. .....17.0              3.2        4.3        15.6        5.4        7.7        14.5       15.1       14.9
Other Income .      .      .-.............                   . o.6      0.5         -          3.4        2.7         -          1.4        1.0
Total Inca  .       ..            .100.0                   100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
KXPENSES
Honorarium:
Technical and Executive Committee  . ... .       1.5       0.4        0.5         0.4        0.4        0.4         0.2        0.3        0.3
Technical Assistance and Services . . .  .                 1.9        1.8         0.9        1.3        1.2          -         1.2        0.8
Bank of bexico                 2.0 ..............0         2.6        2.5         2.2        2.1        2.1         2.1        2.0        2.0
Interest and Charges Paid on:
Rediscounts with Bank of Maxico                 34.4      25.6       26.3        29.5       20.1       22.3        24.6       22.8       23.4
AID Funds . . . . . . . . ................-               11.9       11.0         -         19.5       15.0         -         19.8       13.5
IBRD Funds.               . . ............42.8             -          3.4        33.1        -          7.6        42.6        -         13.5
Salaries and ProVisions for Employee Welfare       8.9      33.6       31.6        20.1       35.7       32.1        18.8       36.o       30.6
Administrative and General Expenses  . . . .       7.7      16.8       16.1        12.6       15.6       14.9        10.4       14.3       13.0
Depreciation of Equipment .   _ ...............-              2.6       2.4          -         2.8        2.2         -          2.7        1.9
Total Rxpenses .97.3                                        95.4       95.6        98.8       97.5       97.8        98.7       99.1       99.0
NET INCOME ................. .                       2.7        4.6       4.4         1.2        2.5        2.2         1.3        0.9        1.0






M PIX I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT rnOJECT
FONDO DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO PARA LA AGRICULTURA, GANADERIA, Y AVICULTURA
STATE21ENT OF RESOURCES AND LIABILITIES
AS OF DATES INDICATED
(Ini Millions of Pesos)
December 31, 1966                  December 31, 1967                   June 30, 1968
Loan      Other                   Loan      Other                    Loan      Other
CATExCRY                        .430-ME  Operations    Total       430-ME   Oprations     Total   4    30-ME   Operations   Total
RESURCES:
Investments in Government Securities.             12.3        1.7    14.0            46.5       110.3       156.8       45.8        104.9    150.7
Short-Term Loans .-                                         119.9        119.9        -         197.2       197.2        -          336.8     336.8
Medium- and Long-Term Loans:
Fondo's Own Program ... .      . ... .            - .466.9             466.9        -         362.9       362.9        -          293.1     293.1
ALPRO-IBD Program . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -       347.1        347.1        -         383.9       383.9        -          389.9     389.9
IBRD Program .123.7                                         -          123.7      319.3         -         319.3      440.2          -       440.2
Miscellaneous Assets .7.7                                    37.5         45.2        5.8        29.6        35.4        8.1         33.3      41.4
Total Resources.                                143.7     973.1      1,116.8      371.6     1,083.9     1,455.5      494.1   1   .158.0 1.652.1
LIABILITIES:
Liability for MDney Borrowed:
Rediscounts from Bank of Mexico ....           105.3      369.4    4    74.7      215.7       422.9       638.6      246.5        492.2     738.7
AID-IBD Funds (Nacional Financiera)               -       154.6        45L.6        -         499.6       499.6        -          499.6     199.6
IBRD Funds (Nacional Financiera).  .     .       32.6       -           32.6      147.9         -         147.9      237.4          -       237.4
Other Liabilities and Reserves.      .     . .      0.9      33.7         34.6        2.9        44.6        47.5        4.9         49.1      54.0
Total Third Party Liabilities  ....             138.8     857.7        996.5      366.5       967.1     1,333.6      488.8      1,040.9   1,529.7
Contributions of the Federal Government . . .       4.9     115.4        120.3        5.1       116.8       121.9        5.3        117.1     122.4
(Inclusive of Accumulated Net Income)
Total Liabilities .............                 143.7     973.1      1116.8       371.6     1,083.9     1,455.5      494.1      1,158.0   1,652.1






ANNEX 3
M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK ANI) AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF? PERFORMANCE UNDER LOAN 430-ME
A. Introduction
1.        Loan 430-ME is a livestock and agricultural lending program ad-
ministerediby the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultura (FONDO) 1/, as trustee for the Banco de Mexico (BANXICO).
Medium- and long-term loans to finance commercial farming enterprises and
agro-processing industries are brought to the FONDO for rediscounting by
participating credit institutions, both private and public. Tie rediscount
funds come, on a fifty-fifty basis, from the proceeds of Loan 430-ME
(US$25 million to the National Financiera, the Government's normal channel
for all borrowings from the IBVD), and from the FONDO's own resources,
generally borrowings from the BANXICO. 2/
Lerniine and Rediscounting Policies and Procedures
2.        By agreement with the IBRD, all farming and ranching enterprises
or processing industries financed under Loan 430-ME must have development
plan which have had prior evaluation by FONDO technicians (or F'ONDO
approved technicians) as to their technical and financial feasibility. Loan
maturities conform to the repayment capacity of the sub-borrower as indicated
by projections of cash receipts and disbursements. All loans are charged at
10,% per annum to the sub-borrowers.
3.        Participating banks (both official and private credit institutions)
bring loans under the Project for rediscount with the FONDO at the following
rates:
% of Loan Rediscounted        Rediscount Rate
with the FONDO                    %
90                          7
80                         6
70                         5
1/ See Annex 2 for a description of the FONDO's powers, organization, and
other operations.
2/  Regulations require private banks in the FedereJ District to keep a part
of reserves against deposit liabilities in the form of "cattle bonds"
issued by the Government. Proceeds from these bonds are used by BANXICO
to lend to the FONDO. Cattle bonds have generated an increasing amount of
support to agricultural lending and have now reached a level of a little
more than 500 million pesos since 1967.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
The difference in rate was designed to encourage the private credit institu-
tions to finance a greater portion of the loans to sub-borrowers with their
own funds.
4.        To assure effective use of borrowed funds, FONDO technicians super-
vise performance of sub-borrowers to assure compliance with the previously
evaluated and approved development plans.
B. Participating Banks
5.        As of June 30, 1968, there were 108 private credit institutions
and the seven regional Banco Agropecuarios (BANAGROS) participating in the
Project. The Project provided for only 625 million pesos of rediscount
funds. However, these institutions had opened credit lines with the FONDO,
totalling 1,067.4 million pesos against which they had rediscounted 532.8
million pesos. The FONDO encouraged the opening of credit lines to promote
the Project and the participation of private banks in the development of
agriculture.
6.        Most of the more progressive private banks have fully used and
renewed their credit lines. Others have not been as agressive and their
credit lines, some still current, were originally opened in 1966. Many of
these bank are small and, therefore, with limited resources and personnel;
most of them have management lacking in aggressiveness towards agricultural
lending; and a few have suffered from uncollectible accounts arising from
damage to harvests (because of recurrent floods, for instance) and falling
agricultural prices (principally in cotton); causing these banks to be more
cautious. Also, a number of banks with credit lines were not familiar with
the Project regulations. Clearly, there is need for the FONDO to not only
adopt a policy of periodically reviewing with the participating banks their
use of credit lines, but also to do more promotional work, both at the level
of participating banks and potential sub-borrowers.
C. Loans to Sub-Borrowers
7.        Loan beneficiaries, as agreed with IBRD, are commercial producers,
operating in three principal regions: (a) Tropics; (b) Central Plateau; and
(c) Northern Mexico. In 1955, the BANXICO set out, through the FONDO, to
mobilize more credit for farmers through the private banks via a rediscounting
operation. This program grew slowly but steadily through 1962. In 1962 the
U.S. Agency for International Developrnent (AID) made a US$20 million loan
for the purpose of accelerating this program to small farmers. This became
known as the Alliance for Progress (ALPRO) Program. The results had been
positive and had exceeded expectations. Loan 430-ME was designed with
similar objectives for commercial producers not covered by the ALPRO program,
thereby filling a gap for this more progressive and productive sector.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.,       Mexico's agriculture operates under a tenure system which is the
result of its preoccupation with social problems. Growing out of its revolu-
tion, was a land reform program and law which has been progressively imDle-
mented. This has included both a system of communal farms (the ejidos) as
well as small property owners. Over half the frrms of Mexico are less than
5 ha with basically subsistence farming. The ALPRO program is geared to this
sector. The maximum size of loans eligible for rediscounting under the ALPRO
program is 150,000 pesos. While there is mt0ch oppdrtunity to increase pro-
duction on these farms, of greater economic significance are the commercial
farms to which Loan 430-ME was directed.
9.        As of June 30, 1968, participating banks had granted more than
61L9.2 million pesos of loans under the Project, of which 532.8 million pesos
had been rediscounted with the FONDO (approximately 87%). It can be seen
from the folLowing table that the percentage of funds forecast by the 1965
Appraisal Mission for the four major enterprises and the percentage actually
utilized are quite comparable:
Forecast                    Actual
No.of    Pesos     % of   No.of      Pesos    % of
Enterprise           Loans   Million     Total  Loans    Million   Total
Livestock                     850    343.1       56   1,855    304.4      58
General Crops                 610    137.5       23     476    106.6      20
Fruit and Tree Crop          175      55.0        9     162     26.0       5
Processing Industries          65     75.6       12     124     95.8      17
Total                 1,700     611.2      100   2,617    532.8     100
Livestock Development
10.       About 65% of all loans for livestock development were for beef
enterprises, mostly to sub-borrowers in the Tropics and in Northern Mexico.
Approximately 30% of the loans were for dairy farms in the Central Plateau
and the Irrigated Regions of Northern Mexico. Loans were likewise given
for the development of goat, sheep, and poultry enterprises. The greater
part of the loans were in the "500,000 peso and below" category: however, a
significant percentage were in the one to two million pesos category
(Appendix 1). Animal purchases accounted for almost two-thirds of the loan
funds utilized for livestock development. Although this appears to be an
unduly high percentage, such is not the case if livestock purchases are
expressed as a percentage of total investment costs, since livestock pro-
ducers finance from their own resources many of the other developmental
inputs (particularly machinery, equipment and fixed installations).
General Crops Development
11.       Almost one-half of the loans for general crops development were to
cereal farmers in Northern Mexico and the Central Plataeu, while one-fourth
of the loans were for cotton farms, mostly in the Irrigated Regions of
Northern Mexico. The majority of loans were in the "250,000 peso and below"



ANNEX 3
Page 4
category, although a significant amount of loans (33.8 million pesos) were
in the 500,000 to 1,000,000 peso bracket (Appendix 2). Approximately 60%
of the loans were for the acquisition of farm machinery and equipment while
almost one-third went to the financing of soil rehabilitation and condition-
ing, and the construction of farm irrigation works.
Fruit and Tree Crops Development
12.       Practically all of the loans for the development of fruit and tree
crops were given to farmers in the Central Plateau and the Irrigated Regions
of Northern Mexico, generally to citrus, avocado, and deciduous fruit planta-
tions. In the Central Plateau, most of the loans were in the "up to 250,000
peso" category, although a significant amount (3.4 million pesos) were in the
category of "500,000 to 1 million peso" (Aupendix 3). In Northern Mexico,
loan size was generally larger, indicating the larger size of fruit farms
in this area. About 63% of loans granted were for the expansion of planta-
tions and orchards or the opening of new ones, indicating the significant
expansion in acreage for fruit and tree crops development.
Agro-Processing Industries Development
13.       Actual performance in this category exceeded original expectations.
A total of 125 loans were granted as of June 30, 1968 - mainly with relation
to: (a) poultry; (b) grain storage; (c) milk pasteurization; and (d) packing
and processing of fruits and vegetables. Total financing amounted to 108.7
million pesos, of which 45% was directly related to livestock commodities and
the remaining 55% to agricultural products. The Project also helped finance
cold storage warehouses; plants for dehydrating alfalfa, wine and liquor dis-
tilleries, fertilizer mixing plants, and others. About 48% of the total
loan volume was accounted for by 19 loans that exceeded 2.0 million pesos
each; another 29% was made up of loans from 1.0 to 2.0 million pesos each.
Over 60% of the loan funds were used for the purchase of machinery and equip-
ment, and most of the remainder helped to finance building construction
(Appendix 4). Dairy industry loans were concentrated in the Central Plateau
Region. Much of the financing for such industries as poultry processing
plants, grain storage, fertilizer plants, cotton gins, wine distillation,
and packing plants for tomatoes and other fresh vegetables, was concentrated
in the Irrigated Regions of Northern Mexico. Investments in the Tropics
for agro-processing industr:ies were minimal.
Impact
14.       Loan 430-ME ha-s been in operation three years.  This is not suffi-
cient time for the inputs to show their full effect, especially in the cases
of livestock and tree crops. Consequently, the impact on the national
economy wa; not estimated. However, no evidence was discovered to indicate
that the very satisfactory returns projected by the appraisal mission in
1965 should be altered.  Appendix 5 shows the specific inputs financed for
livestock, general crops, and fruit and tree crops. The FONDO is attempting
to quantify their effects in bQth financial and economic terms. T'he
beneficial financial impact on farms was evident from visits to farms and
ranchers, and from repayment record.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Collection Experience
15.       A survey of the 115 participating banks indicates that less than
1% of outstanding loans under the Project arF past due.
D. Rediscounting Operations
16.       Total rediscounts granted by the FONDO during the period December 8,
1965 to June 30, 1968, amounted to 532.8 million pesos:
% of
Loans       Rediscount  Rediscounts
Enterprise           (M Pesos)      (M Pepos)   to loans
Livestock                   358.8         304.4        84.8
General Crops               121.6         106.6        87.7
Fruit and Tree Crops         30.1          26.0        84.4
Agro-Processing Industries  108.7          95.8        88.1
Total                  619.2         532.8        86.5
17,.      Most of the rediscounts granted were for 90% of loans made:
(Pesos '000,000)
Portion of Loans Rediscounted
Total
Year         (M Pesos)            90%      80%       75%    70%
1965             1.3               1.3      -         -      -
1966           130.3             116.7     0.5        -    13.1
1967           240.7             203.7     2.5        -     34.5
1968 1/        160.5             120.2     2.4       4.6    33.3
Totals         532.8             441.9     5.4        4.6    X
1/   Up to June 30, 1968.
The tendency of credit institutions to rediscount a greater portion of their
paper may be explained by the fact that time deposits (which are generally
employed for developmental loans) cost 8% per annum, whereas funds from the
FONDO cost only from 5 - 7% per annum. In this connection, it is interesting
to note that, on the average, credit institutions in Tropical Mexico retain
a higher percentage of loans granted than banks elsewhere in the country --
probably because in Central and Northern Mexico there would seem to be more
opportunities for employment of funds in short-term commercial loans:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Percentage of Loans Rediscounted
Central   Northern
Enterprise                     Tropics      Plateau    Mexico
Livestock                        80.0         86.6      87.7
General Crops                    84.4         88.8       87.1
Fruit and Tree Crops             84.o         87.5      84.6
Processing Industries            86.7         88.3      88.1
18.       The FONDO has had no experience of a rediscount not paid at
maturity. As of June 30, 1968, 92.8 million pesos have been collected out
of the total rediscounts granted.
E. Lending Terms and Conditions
19.       All loans to sub-borrowers must be at 10% per annum.    In general,
however, private credit institutions require sub-borrowers to maintain a
non-earning deposit account with the lending institution equivalent to 10
to 20% of the loan. This has the effe5t of increasing interest cost to the
sub-borrower by 1.1 to 2.5 % per annum. Besides the regular interest, some
banks (especially "financieras") charge commissions of 1% of the loan
balance and inspection fees of 200 to 250 pesos.
20.       Generally, private credit institutions deal only with well-
established producers, who are very creditworthy.   Accordingly, while the
development period of a sub-loan might be much longer, actual terms of
repayment are shorter-- generally from three to five years (Appendix 6).
This, however, is an improvement over the ;ituation existing at the time
when the Project was first started, at which time private banks generally
gave loans for no more than three years.
21.       The BANAGROS do not hesitate to deal with less well-established
producers, at better maturity terms and grace periods and, therefore, meet
the demand where private banks tend to be more cautious.
F. Technical ',ervices
22.       Field offices or "residencias" of the FONDO are under the
administrative supervision of the Division of Supervision and Resident
Offices of the FONDO's Central Office in Mexico City. This Division does
not exercise technical direction over the field officers. All develo-?ment
plans to be financed under the Project require prior evaluation by FONDO
or FONDO-approved technicians as to their technical and financial feasi-
bility. To assure effective use of borrowed funds, FONDO technicians are
excpected to see that sub-borrowers follow the approved development plan.
In practice, technical evaluation of development plans is performed both
by FONDO and EANAGROS technicians, trained and approved by FONDO staff.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
":FONDO technicians have followed relatively sbund evaluation procedures.
Processing of data is computerized at the cenitral office in Mexico City.
Frequently, however, the sub-borrower's contribution to total investment
costs are not adequately reflected in the farm and ranch development plans
under evaluation. Although the necessary improvements may necessitate a
readjustment within the FONDO, steps are already being taken to improve
efficiency in connection witn more intensive participation of central office
technical staff and standardization o.o procedures for the evaluation and
supervision of rediscounted loans.
G. Results of Operation
23.       Aside from the Project, the FONDO is trustee for other lending
Programs.  'ITe results of the FONDO's entire operations are fully discussed
in Annex 2.
H. Source of Funds and Financial Condition
24.       The Project has been financed by borrowings from the IBRD (Loan
430-ME ana BANXICO).  Indicative of the rapid expansion of Project operations,
detailed in Appendix 7, is the fact that rediscounting financed by borrowings
has increased in outstanding amounts as follows:
From IBRD             BANXICOL/
M US$
As Of                      M Pesos       Equivalent     M Pesos
December 31, 1966                  32.6            2.6             93.0
December 31, 1967                 147.9           11.8            169.2
June 30, 1968                     237.4           19.0            200.7
I/   Balance of rediscounts from BANXICO less amount deposited with BANXICO
in the form of "investments in Government securities"
25.       Government contribution.to the Project is 5 million pesos, while
accumulated net income after 2Ω2 years of operation is only 0.3 million pesos.
The Government's contribution is very small in relation to the size of the
Project operations. Obviously, there is need for the Government to increase
its financial contribution, especially if account is taken of the need for the
FONDO to improve its operating results. Reducing its borrowings from BANXICO
would be one way to accomplish this.
26.       The Special Fund created for the Project is in good financial con-
dition. All claims are against sound financial institutions.






M E X I , 0
LI'VESTOCK AND AGRICaL'TRAL DEVELPIfNT PROJECT
ANALrSIS OF LENDIN0 OPERATIONS FOR LIVESTOCK DEVX)KD    T
Dec=nber 8, 1965 to June 30, 1968
(Amounts in Nillicma of Pesos)
Bee
Category                                                    Beef    Dairy      Swine    Goats       Sheep    Poultry     Raising    Totals
I.  By Purpose
a.  Pasture establishmaent and improvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       41.2    6.6         0.1      -                                           47.9
b. Water facilitiaes                                                            11.3      4.7        0.7      0.1                 xx                      16.8
c. Alfalfa raising              ..0.9                                                     1.3        xx       -          -         -            -          2.2
d. Animal purchase ............. .                                             18.2      68.7        3.3      0.9        0.1      1.8           -        223.0
e.  Installations, handling and storage facilities       1       4...8                  15.4         7.1      0.1        xx       2.2           -         39.6
f.  Farm machinery and equipmpt. ..15.1                                                 11.1         1.5      xx         -        0.5          0.1        28.3
g. Other purposes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         0.3      o.6        0.1      -          -         -            -          1.0
Total Loans Granted for Livestock Devlopm         ent .231.8                  1o8.4        12.8      l.i        0.1      4.5          0.1       358.8
Total Rediscounta Granted Against Above Loans .194.14                          93.14       11.5      1.0        0.1      3.9          0.1       304.4
% of Rediscotmta to Loans Granted .83.9                                        86.?        89.8     90.0       90.0     86.7         90.0        84.8
II. By Regions and Loan Size                    Beef                Dairy               Swine              Poultry              Others                 Totals
No. of              No. of              No. of              No. of              No. of                NO. of
Loans    Amount     Loans    Amount     Loans    Amount     Loans    Amount      Loans     Amount     Loans      Amount
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a.  Tropics
1. Up   to      250,000 pesos .     743.0     55.3       96.0      7.8      4.o      0.3         2.0      0.3        1.0       0.1        846.0       63.8
2. tp   to      500,000 pesos .      714.0    17.8       22.0      4.2      1.0      0.1          -        -          -          -         97.0       22.1
3.  IJp to    1,000,000 pesos .      40.0     18.3       10.0      2.9                            -         -                              50.0       21.2
4. Up   to    2,000,000 pesos .      10.0      8.2        4.0      2.0       -         -                                                   14.0       10.2
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos .        1.0      1.7                  -                                                                       1.0        1.7
Totals . . . . . . . . . .     868.o    101.3      132.0     16.9      5.0      0.4         2.0      0.3        1.0       0.1     1,005.0       .19.0
b.  Central Plateau
1. up   to      250,000 pesos .      97.0     12.4       9s5.0    12.1     65.o       4.8        1.0      0.1        4.o       0.3        262.0       29.7
2.  Up to       500,000 pesos .      20.0      5.2       45.0     13.6      6.o       1.1        1.0      0.3        1.0       0.2         73.0       20.4
3. Up   to    1,000,000 pesos .       9.0      4.9       23.0     13.4      6.o       1.2        1.0      0.7         -          -         39.0       20.2
4. Up   to    2,000,000 pesos .       3.0      2.8        9.0      5.1      2.0       1.1         -        -                               1 -4.o      9.0
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos .        2.0      5.o        5,0      6.B      1.0       2.0         -        -          -          -          8.0       13.8
Totals .        ,        .     131.0     30,3      177.0     SL.o     80.0     10.2         3    .0  1.1        5.o                  396.0       93.1
c.  Northern Mexico
1.  Up  to      250,000 pesos .     154.0     17.3       83.0     10.3       7.0      0.8        2.0      0.2         9.0       0.7       255.0       29.3
2.  Up  to      500,000 pesos .      60.0     19.5       34.0     11.0      3.0       0.3        2.0      0.9        1.0        xx         99.0       31.7
3.  Up  to    1,000,000 pesos .      38.0     25.8       18.0     10.6      2.0       1.1        2.0      1.1          -         -         61.0       38.6
4.  up  to    2,000,000 pesos .      25.0     35.1        7.0      6.0        -        -         1.0      0.9          -         -         33.0       42.0
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos .        1.0      2.5        2.0      2.6        -        -          -        -           -         -          3.0        5.1
Totals . . . . . . . . . .     278.0    100.2      114.0     40.5     12.0      22.0        7.0      3.1       10.0        7.0       451.0      116.7
GRA2ND TODTALS ................. 1,277.0  231.5    453.0    108.14     97.0     12.8       12.0      b.5       16.0        1.3       8          358.8
xx - Negligible






ME X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AUIATSVTS OF LENDT11G OyERATIONS FOR GENERAL CROPS DEVELOPMENT
Decamber 8,1965 to June 30 1968
(A7 ounts in Millions of Pesos)
Fruits and    Other
Category                                                           Cotton    Cereals   Vegetables    Crops     Totals
I. By Purpose
a. Soil rehabilitation and irrigation ............ . . .. . .. . . ...                  6.2      13.0         0.9          5.1     25.2
b. Farm machinery and equipmsnt .1. . . ...  .    ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..   .  16.7  32.6  2.2       21.4      72.9
c. Farm strctures amn on-farm road                         .0.8                                   3.2         0.5          1.1       5.6
d. Soil clearing and conditioning 4...9 .1...............................4.9                       6.9                     2.5      14.3
e. Other uses . .  ..................................                                    0.8      0.3          xx          2.5       3.6
Total Loan Granted for General Crops Developmsnt    . . 2     .. ..... . .......29.14       56.0        3.6         32.6     121.6
Total Rediscounts Granted Against Abare Loans  .. . . .                           26.0    49.o          3.1         28.5     106.6
% of Rediscounts to Loans Granted .. . .................. ...                     88.4      87.5       86.1         87.4      87.7
Cotton             Cereals        Fruits and Vegetables      Other Crops          Totals
No. CNoof           No.o. eg                                    No. Of             No. of
Loans     Amount    Loans    Amount    Loans        Amount      Loans    Amount    Loans     Amount
II. By Regions and Loan Size
a. Tropics
1. Up to        250,000 pesos                       .0.0.5..........o                          -          -            1.0       0.2      6.o       0.7
2. Up to        500,000 pesos .-.......                           -        -.. .-     -                                3.0       o.8       3.o      0.8
3. Up to      1,000,000 pesos ........... .           1.0        0.8       -          -        -          -            1.0       0.9      2.0       1.7
4. up to      2,000,000 pesos .-.......... .                                -         -                                 -         -         -        -
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos.                          -          -        -         _          -         -            1.0       3.0       1.0      3.0
Totals .1.0                                                0.8      5.0        o.5        -         -            6.o       4.9      12.0      6.2
b. Central Plateau
1. Up to        250,000 pesos .1.......... .           4.0       o.6     55.0        7.5       9.0        0.9         29.0       3.3      97.0     12.3
2. Up to        500,000 pesos ........... .            -          -      11.0        4.2       1.0        o.4          8.0       2.8      20.0       7.4
3. up to      1,000,000 pesos .2.0                               1.1      6.o        4.1       1.0        0.8          1.0       o.4      10.0      6.4
4. up to      2,000,000 pesos .1.0                               1.4                  -         -          -            -         -        1.0      1.4
5. Mora than 2,000,000 pesos ..........I.                         -        -          -         -          -            -         -
Totals          ..7.0                                      3.1     72.0       15.8      11.0        2.1         38.0       6.5     128.0      27.5
c. Northern Mexico
1. Up to        250,000 pesos .45.0                              6.8     96.0       13.3      13.0         1.6        81.0      12.1     235.0      33.8
2.  Up to       500,000 pesos .15.0                              4.9     16.o        4.3        -           -         18.0       5.4      49.0      14,6
3. Up to      1,000,000 pesos.                        14.0      10.1     19.0       11.9        -           -          6.o       3.7      39.0      25.7
4. Up to      2,000,000 pesos.                         4.0       3.7      8.0        8.2                                                  12.o      11.9
5. More than 2,000,000 pesose..o                        -         -       1.0        1.9                                          -        1_        1.9
Totals .78.0                                              25.5    1140.0      39.6      13.0        1.6        105.0      21.2     336.0      87      rg
GRAND TOTALS ........ .                         86.0       29.4   217.0       55.9      24.0         3.7       14g.0      32.6     476.o     121.6
xx - Negligible






M E I I C 0
LIVESTPCK AND AGRICULTMAL DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF LENDING 03ERATIONS FOR
FRUIT AND tREE CROPSMDEVELoPMENT
December U, 19h5 to Juno 30, 1968
(lmounts in Milliohs of Pesos)
Catego27                                       Citrums   Avocado    Peaches    Coconuts     Apples       Otbers     Total
I. BY Purpose
a. Plant purchase and establishmant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2.0        2.9        2.         o.6         0.7        10.3       18.9
b. Soil rehabilitation and irrigation . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     1.6        o.3        1.3        0.5         0.3         2.0        6.0
c. Farm structurwe and ea-far    oda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1.0        0.8        0.7       0.2         0.1          0.6        3.4
d. Miscellaneous inputs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      0.1        0.1     _             0.2        0.1          1.3        1.8
Total Loans Granted for DeveloWent of Frulit Tress & Perennial Crops.     4,7        4.1        4.4        1.5        1,2         14,2       30.1
Total Rodiscounrt  Granted Against Abore Loans . . . . . . . . . . . .    4.2       _3.6        3-9        1.3         1.1        1.8        26.o
% of Rediscoaut to Loans Granted. . . . . .   .                     . . . . . . . . . . .  9.4  7  88, 6  86.       91.7     9     3.7      86.4
Coconuts, Apples &
Citrus              Avocado               Peaches         Ote      aena      rp         Totals
NO. Of              No. Of              No. of                                          No. of
Loans     AMoUnt    Loans    Amount     Loans       Amount      Loas         Amunt      Loans      mount
II. By Regions and Loan Size
a. Tropics
1. Up to        250,o00 pesos   ...    ... . ..... .                               -                                     2.0          0.1       2.0        0.1
2. Up to        500,000 pesos ..  .                      . .   . ..-.        _                                        1.0          0.3        1.0        0.3
3. Up to      1,000,000 pesos ...........               -         -         -         -          -                        -            -         -          -
L. Up to      2,000,000 pesos.                                    -         -         -          -           -            -            - .                  - 
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos..-                                                       -          -.-.-.-
Totals . . . . . .                                                                                                 3.0        O∞L         3.0        0.4
b. Central Plateau
1.  Up to       250,000 pesos .22.0                               1.5      27.0        1.4        1.0        0.2        20.0          3.0       70.0       6.1
2.  Up to       500,000 pesos . . . . . . . . . . .     7.0       1.9       4.0        1.3        2.0        0.5        11.0          3.8       24.0        7.5
3.  Up to     1,000,000 pesos.-                                   -         2.0        1.2        1.0        0.5         5.0          1.7        8.0        3.4
h. up to      2,000,000 pesos...      .   .   ..-                                      -                     -            -            -          -         -
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos . . .                                           -                    1.0                                                       2.1
Totals        ..                                 2.0        3.4      33.0        3.9         . 0       3.3        36.0          8.5      103.0       19.l
c. Northern Noxico
1.  Up to       250,000 pesos ... .. .                   9.0      0.9       4.o        0.2        6.o        o.L        19.0          1.8       38.0        3.3
2.  Up to       500,000 pesos ... .......           ..   2.o      o.IL      1.0    rr            -           -           8.0          1.2       11.0        1.6
3.  Up to     1,000,000 pess ...........                 -        -         -         -           1.0        0.7         3.0          1.6        4.0        2.3
4. Up to      2,000,000 pesos ......... .                    -              -         -          -           -           3.0          3.4        3.0        3.4
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos ...........                -        -        _           -         -          .   -
Totals.0 ..........                              1          1.3       5.0        0.2        7.0        1.1        33.0          8.0       56.o       10.6
Grand Totals..                              .      OO       4.7      38.0        L.1       12.0        4.4        72.0         16.9      162.0       30.1
__ - Negligible






M E X I C O
LIVETOCK ^YD AGRITCULTMU1 DEVELOPMENtT .PROJELT
ANALYSIS OF LINDING OFERATIONS FOR PR O,SSING rNDUSTRES DEVELOPIINT
December N. 1965 to aTne 30. 196N
(Amounts in Millions of Pesos)
Livestock Processing Plants                       Plants for Processing General Agricalture Produce
Slaughter &      Milk       Poultry    Mixed     Fruit & Veg.   Tree Crop    Wine    4 Grain &  Mixing   Cotton Gins &
Category                    Meat Packing  Process-ig  Processing   Feed      Processingl/  Procesaing2/  Liquor   Forage    Plants  Other Fibers     Totals
I. By Purpose
a. Buildings and construction . .           2.7           4.6        10.6       0.8          4.7           2.6         0.3    10.3       0.5          1.0         38.1
b. Machinery and equipment.                 2.9          13.5        11.4        o.6         4.2           6.6         9.1      5.1      7.2          4.1         64.8
c. Installation of machinery. . .            xx           o.5         0.3       0.1          0.8           1.0          xx     0.3       0.8          xx           3.8
d. Other purposes . . .                     0.1           0.5         o.4         -          0.7            -          0.1     0.3        -           _            2.0
Total Loans Granted
to Industries                     5.7         19.1        22.7        1.5        lo.4           10.2        9.5     16.0      8.5          5.1        108.7
Total Rediscounted Granted
on Above Loans                    5.2         17.0        20.3        1.4         8.8            9.1        8.6     13.9      7.1          4.6          95.8
% of Rediscomnts to
Loans Granted ......             91.2         89.0        89.4       93.3        84.6           89.2       90.5     86.9      83.5        90,2          88.1
Livestock               kgricalture
No oPlants              Processing Plants            Totals
]!o..o?,               No. of                     No. of
Loans     Aaount      Loams          Amount      Loans     Amount
II. By Region and Loan Size
a. Tropics
1. Up to       250,000 pesos ................ .                   1.0       0.1          4.0           o.4         5.0       0.5
2. up   to     500,000 pesos .-................                             . -         1.0            0.3         1.0       0.3
3. Up to 1,000,000 pesos.-                                                   -           -              -           -         -
4. up to 2,000,000 pesos..                                             -           -             -                  -         -
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos .-                                              -          1.0                        1.0       2.5
Totals .1.0                                                            0.1         6.o            3.2         7.0       3.3
b. Central Plateau
1. Up to        250,000 pesos ................ .                  3.0       o.4         5.0            1.6         8.0       2.0
2. Up to        500,000 pesos .1............... .                  4.0      1.9         3.0            0.9         7.0       2.8
3. Up to      1,000,000 peos .6.o                                           3.2         4.o            2.0        10.0       5.2
4. up to      2,000,000 pesos .7.0                                          9.0         4.o            4.1        11.0      13.1
5. More than 2,000,000 psos ..4.0                                          15.5         3.0            5.5         7.0      21.0
Totals.                                                     24.0      30.0         19.0          14.1         43.0    144.1
c. Northern Mexico
1. Up to       250,000 pesos ................ .                  17.0       1.9          9.0           2.7        26.0       4.6
2. Op to       500,000 pesos ................ .                  10.0       2.9         3.0            1.0        13.0       3.9
3. Up to     1,000,000 pesos .6.o                                           3.8          5.0           3.1        11.0       6.9
4. Up to      2,000,000 pesos .7.0                                          8.3         7.0            9.7        14.0      18.0
5. More than 2,000,000 pesos . ............... , ............     1.0       2.0        10.0           25.9        11.0      27.9
Totals .................. . .1..... .                        41.0     18.9         34.0          42.4         75.0     61.3
GRAND TOTALS .................. . ... .                     66.o      49.0         59.o          59.7        125.0    108.7
1/ Excluding other tree crops.
2/ Citrus, cacao, coco, etc.
xx - Negligible






LTVSTO301 AND AORICUIWMAL DMVLOP66NT PROJCT
D ... be,r N. 1960 to  a.3.'6
Li-.otok                           0.rlCosFruit and Trs;..Cro                                               Total
No. of         DieeTr -o,mted-   N.o                  2.oatd -        Roo. of            Dic,me      -     No. f      )iscounted-
lnosst-set Items Groaped by Purpose         Unitsf    8/Unit   ftpor('OOCOS)      Units    $/Unit    Paper('O000)      Unit.    $/Unit    Paper('oooOs)   Unit,      P.p.sr(II. PN.Od
I.Co/Paetors 6atbilislhset and
E.itbilis!nnent,
Land dselopeent, 6a-.!/ .-..   -.-                                        17,754.       75!.     13.392          1,105      11.         .768         18,859       11,161
Alfalfa, Ha.                             962     1,606       1.738            318     2,031        .64.6           11.    1.691.        .2L.9         1.1427       2.631
Mixed psrvocint castoarss, H...       38,753       511      20. 977           8?        622         .051-                  - -                       38,835       21.028
Sub-Total .........              39,715      572       22.715        16,151.       776      14.089         1,252       812       1.017          59,121      37. 821
b.  Iflfl3ovenstl
La'd rehabilitation, Ha.j/. . .       19,115       356       6.611.          -         -                  -                                          19,115        6.17.
Pem-s,t coons ibspro-d, H..              595      155         .092         2,355        826       1.91.6         1,003       32        .032           3,95o        2.07C
Sub-Tota1....l                   19.710   ,,  50,2      6.906         2.5          826       1.91.6        1.000        32         .)           23.065        MM01
To tal.   ..........             59.1.25     1.98      29.621        20.509        782      16.035         1.352      ,776       1.01.8         81.286        670
2. Ir,ig.ti an d Lin. Water SuppLy
a.  Li,. eater falite,N              .          .5     5,106       2.273             23    10,261         .236            12   13,6-67       .16              1.80       2.673
b .  1rrig.tie   truct. &  netaL., No.         1.58   16,255       7.4.15            18    61,833       1.1.73            11   58,727         .61.6           1.87       9.5668
c.  Irrigation          K.a.o.s.,. .s .         33    20,152        .665            152    22,951.      3.1.89            1.l  21.,585       1.008            226        5.162
d.  Drainage str. and mnatal., No.. ..          23     2,633        .079             32     9,875         .316            59    8,830         .52111.                     .6
. Flo-o  cotrol and soil -ent.
structures, No.....-                         ...-             -               11     1.5,091       .1.96          -        -           -                 11        .696
Boriss,No.                                    53     9,755        .517            1.      6,957        .327              1    7,000        .007             101         .851
g. Walls, No.11.1. :::            :   :          L    22,01h       3.170             83    86,11.1      6.981.            20   16,:600        .932            21.7      11.096
h.  On-FarM "erb" 8N.-                            9   10,778        .0917           61     22,787       1.390             35   15,000         .525            105        2,012
J.  Mi-.lloneous and other         .       ,,   32,  191.8          .62        ,,,,,,,,,,J  138.000       .55             10    8.600         .086             1.6       i.260
Total...           .....           1.197  12.1.2       11..6            1.31   35.4.13      15.263           189    20O57        ).B89           1,817      34.026C
3, Beof aud Laiy lottle P~.aac..
a.  Bre,,di.g .............                100,731.    1,812     185.591.            10     1,800         .018                   --109,7",                             185.612
b.  Mid etlaneou.and .t.er            .          LO   25,500         .12                                  --                                                    1.0       .102
Total .1...00 ...                  .774.   1.043      185.696            10     1.800         .018           -        --100,731.                           195.711.
h,. Other Aol,l,131.709                                       38       5.202             96     110           .036        _2.031       28        .08          136,776        5.296
Totl.1...........               131..709      38,,,,,   5.202            96     1.000         .036         _2.031       28        .058         136,776       5.2'>
3.  -,eotru,:ti- ad_Installation
a.Fur bhndling cf cattle, No..            14,858     1,504.     22,31.0             9     9,000        .081             75   21,333         .163         16,91.      22.5d6
c.,o bundling noltry, No......             8.937       169       1,513           -         -           -              -        -            -             8,937        1.513
F.,o other, No............                22,000       327        .072              1   176,000        .176           -        -            -            72,001        .21,8
6. 0o-:~-e roads, No..........                 212     2,995        .635            120     6,1.08       .769             68    2,735         .186            1.00       1.510~
-.F lg .5,227                                     2,030       10.612           128      3.9.         .501           171     2,158        .369           5,526      11,8
f.  Forcnsraio,n          strge of
agricultural produots, No.   .           335   14.791.      4.956             39    53.077       2.070             22   30,618         .678            396        7.70L
.Miscellaneous and other .    ..  ..          5    10.978        4.W 113          06     17.91.3      1.902          ,,,,2    2,250         .853            597        ?7.73
Total.     ..........            52.022      867,,A~   45.101           40     13615         5.499           376     6.018       2.251          52,799      52.831
6.  Far,, Macht...y and i0uip,set
a.  Tra-tors, No.............                  131.    7,998      10.717            650    87,311      39.290             1,3  59,1.18       2.555            627       32.762
b. Veb:.cles, No.............                   53    30,565       1.621             26    65,910       1.102              6   62,333         .371.            83        3. 097
c.  P-,,c, No..............                    179    19,621.      3.4.77           130    79,230      10.030             31   4.3,838       1.359             31,0     11.866
d.  Mct:,rs, No..............                   20    15,750        .315             29    51,965       1.507             10    3,720         .372             39        2.106.
H. is,:s.IIne.....   ..  ..   ..    .        4      16,32        7.068            433    40.328      17.462            687    2.651.       1.686          1,553       26.21o
Tota.6 19                                 26.32        M3.19         1,,6      65           69.391         ,,,,      6167        6.31.6          2,66       lq.775
7.  ?lant PF=h..as and Rtabli:lmet, Its
a.AppLes, HNa           .......21.                   8,625        .207           -         --215                              1,790        .385             239        .312
b.  A-ocdo,H a.............                     17    56,117        .092           -         --663                              6,131       2.739             680        2.P911
0.  Clt-us Ha..............                     10    56,0o0        .056              3     7,333        .022          1,033    1,625       1.679           1,01.6       1.7 7
6. Othiors,   a...  .- .- .68                                                               6,309        .293          1,016    3,077        3.259          1,081.       3.5352
s.P-orha.. of fruIt tress, No.                60    5,800         .38_-1,998                                                  2.18a4      4.363           2,o58       1.711
Total .    ...       ...                   ß,j,l         .703            71     4,3           .31          4.        2,523      12.425           5,107      13.443
18N892    L      ... .17134.9.057            872      304.389       _22.526     h.730      i0-5            _9.668    2.697T     26.018         381.231     1,3. 96',
1'  Sr-nnatcr     -st.biisioc-t an, I-nrove,t covers all pertinent items o         ta.,i li-st-ok, genera  crops and tree crops de.-lonent.
2'Land deceIoo--t includes!   lund claace        -ad levelling, elimination of atwosa, stonea, routes, etc., sin, of new areas gained for agricul1ir     and li ..stcck.
3/  Lad -eoaoclitation includes all Inor-cd areas fo-r-merly affected by salinity, alkalinity, impeded drainage or subject to floods, ftere rehabilltation and sl-u
-osrticn   -crk  boo  been carried out.






M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
REDISCOUNTS GRANTED CLASSIFIED AS TO MATURITY
DECEfER i, 1965 TO JUNE 30, 1960
Processing
Total Repayment Period!/       Livestock    General Crops    Tree Crops      Industries       Totals
No.   M. PesosaJ No. M. Pesos   No. M. Pesos     No. M. Peso   No.  M. Pesoso
1                  17     2.1      23     2.2      2     0.2      -      -        42     IJ.5
2                  84    11.0      75     7.0      8     0.8       9     1.1     176    19.9
3                 356    48.3     185    28.7     27     5.9      29     9.6     597    92.5
4                 253    43.4      96    15.3     39     4.6      21     9.2     4o9    72.5
5               1,056   169.8      81   45.0      75    12.5      62    71.6   1,274   298.9
6                  66    14.3       5     1.9     11     2.0      .      -        82    18.2
7                  10     4.1       5    2.3          -       -          -        15     6.4
8                   2     0.7       3    1.8      -                2    2.8        7     5.3
9                   1     1.0      -      -       -       -       -      -         1     1.0     !2:
10                  10     9.7       3     2.4             -        1    1.4       14    13.5
TOTALS                     1,855   304.4    476   106.6     162    26.0    124    95.7    2,167   532.7
1/  In number of years.
2/'    millions of pesos.






M E 1 I C 0
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DLVEWOPMENT PROJECT
FONDO DI GARNTIA Y FOMENTO PAMA LA AGRICELTURA, GANADERIA Y AVICULTURA
ODMPARATIVE STATENT OF RZSURCZS AND LIABILITIES
0F% SS3aAL  ILUb   E'UM   !WS 430MH)
AS OF DATES INDICATED
Dea. 31, 1965               D       1966      1re.31. 1967                       1966      3P. o              % P
Category                         M PesPesos     N Pesos    IncreasePesos                       Increase    % of 1966     M Pesos    Increase   % of 1967
RF9DURCZS:
Investbent8 in Government Securities .            3.5            12.3       8.8         351          46.5       314.2       378           45.8     ( 0.7)         98
Medim- and Lomg-Tem Loans. . . . . . .            1.3           123.7     122.4       9,515         319.3      195.6        258          440.2      120.9        138
Miscellaneous Assets . . . . . . . . . .           -              7.7        7.7        inf            5.8    ( 1.9)         75            8.1         2.3       140
Total Resources . . . . . . . . . .         4.8            143.7     138.9         299         371.6      227.9        159          494.1      122.5       133
LIABILITILS:
Liability for Nmoney Borrowed:
Radisco,mta froc Bsnk of Mexico . . .-                       105.3     105.3         inf         215.7      110.4        205          246.5       30.8        114
IBRD Fbds - Nacional Financiera. . .            -             32.6      32.6         inf         1147.9     115.3        454          237.4       89.5       161
Other Liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . .                          0.9        0.9        inf            2.9       2.0         322           4.9         2.0       170
Total Third Party Liabilities . . .-                       138.8     138.8         inf         366.5      227.7        264          488.8      122.3        133
Trust Principal:
Contributimns of the Federal Govt.. .          5.0             5.0        -          100            5.0                      _ 100      5.0 _                 100
Accumulated Net Incce. . . . . . . .           0.2)          ( 0.        0.1          50           0.1        0.2                       0.3        0.22
Total Trust Principal . . . . . . .          4.8             4.9       0.1         102           5.1        0.2        104            5.3        0.2        104
Total Liabilities .1. . . . . . . .         4.8            143.7     138.9       2.994         371.6      227.9        259          494.1      122.5        133
1/ Change from accumulated less to accumulated income.
inf - infinity






A O1 O O.  O      :. O8 O1  Noo ol _ _ -_9 ~s o1  _                 3> _              N N l  ∞ C  8oo o _N N8
]1.E   ..... . .   .3  3  5 






ANNDX S
it I IC Ca
LTVYT00    AND A0IC01. 1118L D3TL0P14T P1803K 7
PWIIAfO 07 THE LENDING PROGRAM3
i~~~~~o                            92S11~~~~~~~~~E   '000,000 (ALL WLlUS)                  P95C3 '000 P820 2.08                    OF 1.0682 DURING D-MOV]..07611  P9.A.,
Totel]1. O,toant. Total. Loan    Total kca~Ut      Aweraga iTh-ot-.t       A3orgag    joraga Aw-            1        2         3         orC  A i
Ccoat           Amoun.t   Discounted Paper    Cost psr Loan       Loan Akmnrt   ks.coa,,ted Pap. r   (8o..    (N..)  ~   l1o.)     (l..)
LIV8TO0E - COUNTRYWID     SU1B-IIJECr
1rrig,ted North                                   1.30.60            92.31        83.08               775.71            659.36        593...3             33       1.0       50        160
Ar.d North                                        131.60            m11a6        100.63               306.05            2650. 1       2-3h12.             00       120      23.)       .30
ce.etr-aT Bet.a..                                 11.6.6o           124.6?       112,15               637.39             51..70       1.67.61             1.        7 1      ill       733
Dy, T_apico                                         7L.0O0           62.90        56,60               370.00             314.50        283.05             1.0       60       130       200
So.riOrrAL                                     1.60.80          391.68       352.50               41.6080            391.68        357.50             200       330      500      1,303
88828L CRIOPS . 0011N11RYWIDI 0UB..8JtCT
lr-i6at.w  North                                  109.25             92.86       83.58                230.00            195.4..       175.916            115       155       175       L75
Arid 14r-.n                                         18.25            15.51        13.96               11.0.38            119.31        107.38             1.11     1.0        5f1       tic)
Sotr l Otoan                                   60.03            51.00        1.5.90               200.00            170.00        153.00              80       100      120        303
Dry 1r-pl..                                          2.20             1.87         1.08               220.00             187.00        168,00              3         3         ..        l0
W.'t Tr.pico                                        15.00            12.7c        11.1,8              200.00             170.00        173,00             25        25        25         "I
028.2T7.8L                                     201.7(            173.99      156.60                206.77            175.75        150.18             293      3123      37.        9900
90101N13L C0181S - COUNT.91RDE S0B-PRCJ5CT
Ir-igatod North                                     18.1,0           13.091       11.78               385.00             327.25,       294.53             10)       15        15         <3
Aridl lortO                                         2L.00            20.1.11      18.36               24.0.00            204.00        103.60             3~0       30        .0        1)3
Dry T,oi..r                                         56.10            1.7.611      1.2.92              207.78             176.63        158.96             d0        55       10)5      270
SU.B-0OTA.L                                     95.50            81.18         713.06              232.93             198.00       178.19             12C       130       160       1.10
8GR0..11D201R8ES - COILlRYI8WDE 89-98R3JEC!
1,r.gst.d Nor,h                                   123.03             98.1.0       88.80             1.537.c0          1,230.00       1.110,00             25        27        20        a0
Arid North                                         109.L.0           87.50        79.00               770.1.2           616.23         556.31.            15        48        41        1L>2
Pe1rl Patoo                                   135.60           108.60        98.00              1,067.72            855.12        771.65              1.0      .3        Lb1       127
Dr-y Prop300                                        13. 67           10.90~        9.80             1,01.6.15            838-.6        753.85              1.       1.         5         13
mot Iroplro                                        53.90              0.60.8      36.70             I,33.0.            1,073.68        965.7)             11        13        IL.        >
UB20CA01.                                     1.32.50           34.6.20     312.30              1,081.25            865. 50       781,25             125       135       11.       1.30
SOIJTHEASr61HN CAPTI.N D69013PM827 011B-P813J2T I/
W.-! Urainod - Vjllada,,,ds.                       1.95.00          396.00       356.90                1.50.00           360.00        324.1.5           2 30      305       500      1.100
A..Odu. - J1Lao,oa60.30                                              68.00        1.3.1.0             300.00             22.3.03       717,00             50        70        03        200
yd-t-                                 ~~~~~~~~30.30     26.00        21.70               300.00             210.00        217.00             20         10       so        100,
W1L0W. ;Latca                                     300.30           21.8.00      216.00               500.00             1O.00.0       31.0.00            150      180       270        631
Dry 6oa--no                                        100.00            80.02        72.00               Soo. n3            ho.0013       360.00             50        30        80        203
SU1J0.732A..                                   985.00            788.00      710.00                41,7..73          355.15         322.73            500       700    13.3)3     0,2011
1rrigct,a N-z'lh                                  356.25            296.66      267.21.                .8.69            1.03.62        363. 59           213       21.6      275,       7 35
Anid 2    ,                                        203.25           235.27       211.99               353. 18            293. 35       261.33            195       2 38      362        602
ottoal Plotta..                      ~~~~~~~    ~     ~~~31.2.2  281.21  256.00          520.85            4.32. 59      389.73             167      211       2 76       651e
Dr    rpt                                          1425.90          123.36       111.03               2Y5.96             250.22        225.15            127       152       2lL        L))
-,t 1.p<o65.90o                                                      53.55        1.8.1s              583.19             1.73.59      1.26. 37            36        30        301       113
130TAL GOUlNlldWlIDE 93:3..9l93CT               1,193. 50          993.05       89I..1,6              4.26.25           350.66        319.1.5            738      686     1,171.     2 ,2011
7001.1 S0U76t...50E1N 3A.'L.1 STIB-PROJECT        985.00            780.00      710.00                4.1.373            358. 12       322.737           500       3110   1 ,00)O    2, 20'
3.ntIl  [DIAL                                  2, 170. 50        1,781.05    1,60L.4.6               4.35.70,          356. 21       320.80           1,238     1,588    2.171.     5, 203
I10 3dOo-t.r.ooor  Cattila DawaLopma.t ftb-Projeot is located m.ainY In the W.b Tropica RagLan with the exception of 1h.0 'Dry Huwatewca'       etch 1.s located
o. Lie Dry Z11p-, .go 0801.






LIVSrLOJO AM1 LGRICULUIRAL DEVF.LOPMEIr PROJECT
ESFIMATES OF PROPOSED INVESTIWNTPRRA I
LIVESTOCK - coi1frRTwim) sup-pwIOirr
lPOssa  -ES07&~w'                                                                                 (uSr000000 
P R SPOSE ZD        TO0T AL       I IVTI STNBM? .        ~COS T S
INVHSTMlKT cArsGol1Eas                                                                                              a w    t   a 0  F50uIt r7b                                                        Bat.imad  leteiga
B a . f   C . A t I. a   D a i. r     C                Ss9   It rMated Northr& !.,4ptd1ka           T    t     IAa  Bor  ~r.ar' LandIng  Total        Z=msCNon
Arid [or.hDr7 =rpac Irrigatod        rt   a.elPata       72i        Central Plateau Central Plateau  TIGZvt7        Investsaut. Prograse  In-" t-ut      (    ~(A       t)
I.     LAND DnPTv7E14E AIM DUBVLOPINT
1. Fencing, (km)                                  14.40.      2.70--                                                                      -           17.10   I.      0.21        1.16       1.37--
2.  BoreiniOn1 et. Wlaom±le, (No.)                 18.00      1..90-----                                                                              22.50   5       0.27       1.53        1.80
3. Li.a, (N..)                                     7.60       2.00              ,                                                                      9.60   2       0.12       0.65       0.77        30         0.23
0. Soil groai.n Control, (ha.) 2/                  9.32        ---- -                                                                                  9.32   2       0.11       0.61.      0.75         30         0.23
5.  Pastrum FAt.bliahmnt (Eain?ed), (ha)            -        28.56--                                                      - -                         28.56   6       o.31.       1.914     2.28         10        0.23
6.  Alfalfa Rteablishmnt. (IrrIgated), (h.)         -          -               7.50          16.00                        -                           23.50   9       0.28        1.6o       1.88        10        0.19
7. Others                                          0.68       3.24.1 1.1.00                                 -             -                           13.1.2  3       0.16       0.91       2.07        10.3
21UB-TOrAL.                                   50.00      01.00             9.00          20.00          ---120.00                                        27        1.09      8.4.3       9.912      12          1.20
TT.    AORICUILTIRAI. MCIN&HT AND) mB!P11NT
I. Squ.ees  Chutes, (No.)                           1.6o      0.80--- -                                              -                                 2.4.0  0       0.03        0.16       0.19         -
2. Cattle Scales, (No0.)                           2.88       1.80              -              -                                                       L .68  1       0.06        0.32       0.38        20         0.08
3.  Frailora, (No.)                                1.60       0.80             0.50           0.90          ---3.40                                            1      0.01       0.23        0.27       00          0I11
1..  MIlkIng golpeset, (No.)                        -          -               9.00           7.00          -                             -120                 3       0.14.      0.82       0.96        32         0,3I
5. 15llk Gooling & Storage Tanka, (No.)             -                           .00           6.Do          -.                            -           1 0.00I  2      0.12        0.68      0.80         441        0.35
6.  Fe.dre, Wotr,e & YABcoelienaoa, (go.) 3/        -          -.-                                          .06          1.23            2.10           3.39   1      0.0         0.23       0.27--
7. Other,                                          3.92       2.60             1.90           4.00         Q.11.,        0.11            0.20         13.03   3       0.16       0MS         1.04       62         pA56
SUN-TOTAL                                     10.00       6.00            11.00          18.00         0.20          1.1.0           2.30         1.8.90  11       0.59       3.32       3.91        36         1.41l
101.   C0NSTRUCTIONS 2N0 fINSTALLATTO(SS
1. Drips, (No.)                                    3.00        1.90-                           -           0.19           -                -            1..65  1       0.o6       0.31       0.37         -          -
2. Working Corrals, (No.)                          L.20       2.10-                     -                  0.09           -                -           6.39    I       0.08       0.1.3      0.51         -          -
3. Far Building., (No.) 4/                         6.00        1.90           16.50          2L.00          -            2.55             3.30)       51.25   12       0.61.      3.70       L.30        10         0.1.3
L.. Coapleaontsoy Im tlanTione, 5/                  -          -               1.90           0.90          -             -                -            2.00   0       0.02       0.11.      0.16         - 
9. Otl.r.r                                         2.80       1.60             2.00           5.50         0.28          0.51            0.1.0         12.99  3       0.16       0.88        1.01.       25        0.26
SU_B-PTAIL                                     16.00       7.00           20.0OC         30.00         0.52          3.06             3.70         80.28  17       0.96       5.4.6      6.1.2       11         0.69
17.    BNMIN0 STOCK
1.. Breeding Age Fesa3..e, (No.)                  30.00       14.00           60.oo          72.00         2.67          1..26             -          182.93  4.0      2.19      12.41,    14.63        02         6.12
2.  BreedIng Age Hales, (N..)                      18.00      6.00              -              -           0.21          0.1.8                  -     2L. 69   s       0.30      1.68        1.98        so         1.58
UB~-TOTAL                                     1.8.00     20.00            60.00          72.00         2.88          4.74..                       207.62  L5       2.1.9     16.12      16.61        1.6        7.70
ORAIMD TOTAL.                                            128.00      7L.W0           10.00          11..00         3.60          9.20            6.00        66.8(1 1CR       q515      71.33      36.86        30        11.00
PERCB2LTrAGE OF roTAL. WNESTIMENT COSTS                  28         16               22             30             1             2               1              -   100      15         85        100           30
1/ Figu,s   a-  Round.d.
2/ Diverelon Terraces, r-rrace., Contour Lites, aid OuIley Control.
3/  For ?oultr.   a-etrio Brooders, Feder., Wator.rs, Individrral Laye- Gages cith Watorer-   wxd Feede; For Sari-e    P.Rtor,    aloer,  Vetorln-y Eqalp-ot; For- Srheep/Goat.: MA6-11e     -.oea  C0ulpuet, (Ficke. Ass.,,
Machetes, Vetarinar7 EqUipreet, Sh-aing iiqiporrat).
4/  Storerore, Cooboy Iurrartrs, Milking Parlors, Corrals and Uhadee for Dairy :cai In .om-oeirt Conpl.te rith Feed &nrkr and Water Facilities, MAatunsIty Parn, Calf Roaring Sa      ,iuftr,rrry (Cii     ,Silo,,
Poultry HXcetO, aol Curr-als fur FattnIng SuiorIr Cnorifir-errt.
5/ Coruplemetrty Iri3tal.Latio    to Insro1tallais   for- Dairy                  ..rec Crisero nh as da.ter Storage Tanks. r2Iectmal. SyOweso, Corral ani Bar. riraa






M EX I CO
LIVESTOK AND AGRICRLTERAJ. DEVKL0PMT PROJECT
ESTI1LTES OF PROPEO CRVERTMRB PROOSAPr
AXIOAL CROPS - C00NR1RWI1DE SUB-PROJECT
(P60000 000) COT                                                              (S '000.000)
INVWTHNT CATEGORLS  A-G-lit I".RI.Wd& F. irr18. Po.R. Et fd NrPa17R0 aoIdQ   rrg  ealdO            d& P. 1rrO. P5.PYid   T.tAL    SbRroco      .do1oa        Noaglp9o
I.  ARD fl4PR0SSfflAN7 D DEV000PIBK
1. Load CleariE., (ha.)            12.00           -0.30                 ---0.50                                               1.20   11.00  7       0.17     0.95    1.12   10      0.11
2. Lad L.- .r.l, (h..)             12.00           --                   3.75             -1.00                     1.00         -      17.75  9      0.21     i1.21   1.42   LO0     0.57
3. Fro DOrloag  (ha.)                -                        0.21.              -                    -             -          0.30    0.51.  0      0.01     0.03    0.01.  20      0.01
1..  Soil 660.1  C trl (h.--0.6                                          ----.0                                                        066   00.01            0.1     0.05   30      0.02
5.  Flood Cootro1, (h..)             -----                                                      -                   -          3.00    3.00  2       0.01.    0.20    0.21.  30      0.07
6.  Orohad Etb.olih-.t, (ha.).                                                          3.00         11.00          -3.75              17.75  9      0.21      1.21   1.1.2  10      0.14.
7. Alfoif. Ectahilhacat, (ha.))-                       -                         -              -                  1.00        -        1.00  0      0.01      0.07   0.66   10      0.01
S. Other                            3.00          -0.10                 0.25            0.50         1.00          0.50        0.70    6.05  3       0.07     0.12    0.1.9  60      0.29
SUB-TCOrAL               27.00           -          1.00      4.o00           3.50         13.00         3.00        9.25   60.75 30       0.73     4.13    1.86   25      1.22
I.OR-FARM IRRIGALTI0 WORSE
1.  W.li DrIlillg, (N..)                          2.25         -6.00                     --5.00                                 -      13.25  6      0.16      0.90   1. o6  1.0     0.4.2
2. Coaal. (M6.)      ---                                                6.75             -            L1.00        3.00        -       13.75  7      0.17     0.93    1.10   10      0.11
3: . No1L,Irltioa Sdwc., (No.)       -                   -               -              2.00          --                  -            2.00  1       0.02     0.14.   0.16   10      0.02
1..  Othr.                           -            0.25         -         .25            0.20          0.50_        1.00        -3.20         2       0.01.     0.22   0.26   60      0.1i6
SUB-TOTAL                  -2.50                    -        11.O0           2.20          1.50          9.00        -       32.20 16      0.39     2.19    2.58   28      0.71
III. AORICOLTORAIL KAcRRERI & RO00FPRT
1.  Irctoro.  (No.)                28.00          2.1.0       0.80      9.00             --5.00                                3.75    480.95  21.   0.58     3.31.   3.92   1.0     1.57
2. Ip1o-ct., Tool. ed M-.hia-., (No.)  R.00       0.60        0.30      3.00             --1.00                                0.75   13.65  6       0.16     0.93    1.09   1.0    0.1.1
3.  Pocpiog'8iDjo -ct, (No.)         -2.25                     -        9.00             -            -7.00                    -       10.25  9      0.21     1.25    1..6   1.0     0.59
1..  Frot Coatrl aiDop-.ct, (N..)    -                         -                        1.00          2.00          --3.0                    2       0.01.     0.20   0.21.  1.0     0.09
5.  3Pry.i.9 &gip.ot, (No.)          --                                  -1.00                        2.00          --3.000                  2       0.01.L   0.200   0.21.  1.0     0.09
6.  Tr-llr.  M -o)                   -             -           -         -               -2.00                     1.00        -       3.00  1       0.01.    0.20    0.21.  1.0     0.09
7. Othe.-                           5.00          0.50        0.10      2.25            0.20         1.00          1.00        0.50   10.55  5       0.13     0.71   0.81.  1.0      0.31.
SUB-TOTAL                41.o.0         5.7T5       1.20     23.25           2.20          7.00         15.00        5.00   100.10 1.9     1.20     6.83    8.03  1.0      3.21
IV. CObILTROCTIOSS & IESAIATIO&102
1. ForB.Udoidg., (N..)               --                        -         -              1.00         3.00           -          -        .00  2       0.05     0.27    0.32   10      0.03
2.  Othe.-                     -------                                                  0.10          0.50          -                  0.60  0       0.01     0.01.   0.05   60      0.03
SSSB.TOChL                 --                                                 1.10         3.50           -                   .60  2       0.66     0.31   0.37    16      0.o6
V. BRE~MG STOCK
1. n-ot. 00d CottLg. fo-
Por=.SlA   CO-P., (No.)         -                         --1.00                                 5.00           -0.75              6.75  3       0.66     0.1.   0.54.  10      0.05
SOR-TOTAL                  --                                 -1.00                        5.00                     0.75     6.75  3       0.66     o.1.6  0.51.  10       0.05
0GR1ND TOTAL                       68.00          8.25        2.20     1.1.25          10.00         33.00        27.00       15.00   2014.70 100    2.1.6   13.92   16.38   32      5.25
PERCENTAGE OF TOTrAL DM=ET55N CRBTS  33          1.           1        20               5            16           13          0100                  15       85     106)    32 
I/ Figur. -~ R .. d.d.
2/Figu. of 1 ... the 0.5 -r r~.d to a.






N E  I C 0
LIVESTOCK ND OAORICULTURAL DREVLOrPND   PROJECT
ES2IMiTEa OF PROSEf` 321D L %Lr0 PR1-  P
PERNIAL CROPS - Cr0NRYVImDE SUB-PROJSCr
P PESOS ';00 T000)  (C S                                                                         '000.000)
Ivui3N    C&TU0IU                P        i          Por OraOty Irrig.   Ranird & P. lrrig.2/ Pre Or-ity Irrig.    R.i,.fed &              T. Irrig.  ?otal  Sb-Bor-o_'  TI_         Tt.a        b 
Dry r8opwI Irrigated Nortbh              Arid North l         Dry Trnpics         Dry 7ropics      (unt)m (             atD  ne        r        O,anat
r.   LAND IMPROVEENTFr AND DEVEWP1ESIT
1. Land Clirng, (1.h.)                       1.30                 _                    _                   _                    _             1.30      1         0.02         0.08        0.10        10        0.01
2. L-nd LAeling, (.)                                                                  1.5                  -                   o.36           1.86      2         0.02         0.13        0.15        40        0.06
3.    Par,.Drain-g., (ha.)                    _                   _                    _                  1.50                 0.24           1.74      2         0.02         0.12        0.14        20        0.03
. Soil -oJio. Cortro1, (ha.)                                      -                    -                   -                   1.00           1.00      1         0.01         0.07        0.08        30        0.02
5. Orchard Eat.blifbnt, (ha.)                7.80                10.00                5.00                8.00                 1.60          32.40     34         0.39         2.20        2.59        10        0.26
6. Fencing, (K..)                             -                    -                  1.00                 -                    -             1.00      1         0.01         0.07        0.06        -
7. Other,                                    1.90                1.40                 1.50                0.50                 0..0           5.70      6         0.07         0.39       0o.6         60        0.1
SUB-TOTL                       li.00                u1.40                9.00               10.00                 3.60          45.00     47         0.54         3.06        3.60        18        0."
I r.  ON-FkRI IRRIOATION WoRKS
1. Canal Linig, (Ku.)                                   -                              -                   3.00                 -             3.00      3         0.04         0.20        0.24        10         0.8
2. Irrigation  .Wopro-emnt, (No.)            3.90                                    10.00                  -                  2.00          15.90      17        0.19         1.08        1.27        10         0.13
3. Othere                                    0.10                 _                   1.00                1.00                 0.20           2.30      2         0.02         0.17        0.19        60        0.1,2.
SUB-TO7AL                       4.D∞                                    11.00                4.00                 2.20          21.20     22         0.25         1.45        1.70        15         0.26
iii. AOBicuLruR.L NA1HlIEND AND EQVIPIENT
1. Tractor,, (Nn.)                            _         -                              -                    -                  1.00           1.00       1        0.01         0.07        0.08         h0        0.03
2.     -esnt, nd N-ohi-., (No.)              2.60                                                          2.50                0.40           5.50       6        0.07         0.37        0.44        I0        0.18
3. Trilerm, (No.)                             -                    -                                        -                  1.00           1.00      1         0.01         0.07        0.08        40         0.03
1. Other,                                    0.∞4                  -                   -                   0.50                0.20           1.10      1         0.02         0.07        0.09         40        0.04
SUB-TOTrL                       3.00                  -                   -                   3.00                2.60           8.60       9        0.11         0.58        o.69         40        0.20
IV.  CON37RUCTIONS  D INSTALLATIONS
1. Far Buildings, (No.)                      1.30                  -                   -                    -                   _             1.30       2        0.01         0.09         0.10        10        0.0
2. Other,                                    0.20                  _                   -                    _                                 0.20       0        0.01         0.01         0.02        60        0.8
SUB-TOrL                       1.50                  -                   -                    _                   _             1.50       2        0.02         0.10        0.12         17        0.02
V.    BRMDIO STOCK
1.  - Finsad Cutting. frr
Perennial Crop D.-l.p-st, (No.)        7.80                 4..00               4.00                 3.00                 0.40          19.20     20        0.23          1.30        1.53        10        0.15
SUB-TOTAL                       7.80                 4.00                4.00                 3.00                0.40          19.20      20        0.23         1.30         1.53        10        0.15
GRlND TOrAL                                 27.30                15.40               24.00                20.00                 8.80          95.50    100        1.15         6.49         7.64        18        1.37
PERCEITAGE Or TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS        29                   16                  25                   21                   9               -       1oO       15           85          100           18         -
/ Figure are Rounded.
2/ Pn.pin  Irrigtion.






Lr{1.TO.OK ANTD AGFaIuVLr19iAL 109V LOPAENT MROJECT
9OTIMA'TFS OF PRTOPOSED INVIITL-Nr PoR4
AGRO-INUV3TRTEI - QTTT     VSBPOJECT
(P  000.000)                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(US$ '000.000)Avr
PROPOSC.D TOTL IS;kST26   COSTS                                                                           lti.-ted Fo...ign    iNo. of    I-vesL.
]WEVSTMENiT cOAnfhiEs                 -irrgated       A.rsd         Centr'al       Dty            Wet            Total)        Sub-Borr-,ers     te.ding      Total        &   a.sC     -2l      LyX        Per Loan
North          Noth          plateau       Tropics       Tropice     (A.sunt              ImTes5tnemc     Prograa    lootent        ()         Aun)       )5
1.  Y TYPE OF INDUSTRY
1. Slaughterh-uae                              5.3           1.0.5           5.3          5.3          31.6         58.0       13         1.1            3.5          1.6         50         2.3                     42
2. MilkaPlants                                15.1           19.1,          3.0.2         3.7          i1,6         80.0       18         1.9            1,05         6.1 h        6          3.6                    ft
3.  Poultry and Eigg                          13.0            6.5            8.0           -             -          27.5        7         0.2            2.0          2.2        iS          1.0          1           7
.euixng                                 223.1                         3.6          0.5           2.3         12.0        3         0.1            0.9          1.0         500.5                  100          10
5.   ra:in Strage                             32.1            7.0           15.0          1.5           1.5         57.1       1L         0.5            L.2          L.7         31.        1.6          25         1912
6. Debydrotion Plants                          1.0            4.0            8.0          0.7           1.3         18.0        1         0.1            1.4          1.5         10         0.9          27          53
7. Fiber ProcessIng                           25.1             -             3.7          1.9            -          31.0        7         0.7            1.7          2.1,        50         1.2           6         112
8. VIegetabl  Oti Mills                         -                           26.8           -             -26.8                  6         0.6            1.5          2.1         52         1.),          2       1,065
7. Fertilloar and Other Mixing                 6.1            1.0            1.0           -            0.           9.3        2         0.1            0. 6         0.7         57         O.u          10          73
0.Pacing (Fruit and Vegetable)                53.0.7-17                                                             77         1         011311500.7                                                     20          7
11. Cold Storage (Fruit andO Vegetable)         1.0           21.0            5.5-                        -          27.5        6         0.2            2.0          2.2         50         1.1          87          24
12. Proe.ssIng (Fruit and Vegetable)             -            23.8           11,.2                        -38.0                  9         0.8            2.2          3.0         56         1.7           8         376
13. Floor Mulm                                 10.8            7.2             -            --                       18.0                  O .1           1.1          1.5         53         0.8           5         286
IL: Dis tilleries (Wine, etc.)                  2.4            1.6            1.6           -                        li1.6       3         0.1            0.8          0.9         55         0.5          10          92
TOTAL.                         123.00         1019.14        135.6         13.6          50.9        132.5      100         6.9           23.7         34..6        50)       17.1         100          86
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL INVASTI4ENT COSTS          29             25             31            3            12             -       100        20             B0          100           50           -          --
TI. BY INVESTMENiT CATEGORY
1. Land ad Utilities                           3.3            2.9            3.6          0.1           1.4         11.6        3         0.9             -           0.9          -           -
2.  Cnstruti-ne                               31.8           30.9           38.5          3.9          11.1,       122.5       28         5.0            1.8          9.8         16          1.6
3.  Machinery andi Sqipment                    70.1          62.6           77.5          7.7          29.1        217.3       57          -            19.8         19..)        00        15.8                      -
1.  Studios and Supervisian                    3.5            3.2            3.9          0.1           1.5         12.5        3         0.5            0.5          1.0          -           -
5.  Others                                    11.0            9.8           12.1          1.2           4.5         38.6        9         0.5            2.6          3.1          --
TOTAL                          123.0          109.1,         135.6         13.6          50.9        L32.5      100         6.9           27.7         31.6         50        17.1 
PIERCEFTAOE OF TOTALL INVFSTMENT COSrS         29             25             31            3            12             -       100        20             80          1OD           50           -          -           -
TOO. NT MuJOR PURPOSE
1. Livestock Froducte                         35.6           39.8           47.1          9.5          45.5        177.5       hi.        2.7           11.5         11.2         13         6.6         200          71
2.  Agricultural Prou.cts                     67.1           69.6           88.5          1.1           5.4        255.0       59         1.1           16.3          20.1         53       10.8         200         102
TOTrAL                         123.0          109.1          135.6         13.6          50.9        132.5      100         6.8           27.8         31.6         50        17.).        100          86
PERCENTAGOE OF TOTAL. INVESTMENT COSTS         29             25             31            3            12             -       100        20             80          100           50                -                 -
K (jP&6OS' ,000),Haf                                                             u$0000
Land                        Machinery      Studies                                                                                   Estime.td Foreign
and                           and           and                          Ttl           Sub-Norroaers     Lending      Total         E.ohnge gose-t
UtilitIes    Constructions    Iqip~sent    Supervision     Others      TA=~     i           TnIestaant      T'rogran    Iovest-set               (Aut
T-V. IT TYPE OF INDUSTRY AND MAJOR
INVESTMENT CATInORIE
1.  Sl1nghterhouses                            6.9           20.6           23.0          2.5           5.0         56.1o      13          1.1            3.5         1.6         50         2.3          --
2.  Milk Plants                                3.6           13.8           53.6          2.6           6.1         30.0       16         1.9            1.5          6.1         56         3.6          --
3.  Psoitry and Fgge                            -            11.0           1i.1          0.1.          2.0         27.5        7          0.2            2.0          2.2        15         1.0          --
I-.Feed Moing                                   -              .2            6.2           -             .6          12.0       3          0.1           0.9           1.0        50         0.5          --
5. Graic Storage                                -            31.7           17.9          1.5           6.o         57.1       11          0).5          1.2          1.7         31         1.6                      -
6. Deh.ydration Plants                         0.3            1.2           15.1           -            1.1,         18.0        1         0.1            1.L          1.5        60          0.9         --
7. Fiber Procesing                             D.'7           6.o           20.7          0.6           2.8         31.0         7         0.7            1.7          2.1,       50          1,2         - 
8.  Vegetable Oil Mills                          -            1.1           18.1          1.9           2i,1         26.8        6         0.6            1.5          2.1        52          1.1         --
9. Fertilizer and Other Miolog                   ..           0.1.           8.0            -            0.9          9.3        2         0.1            0.6          0.7         57         O2.i        --
10.  Packing (Fruit and Vegetable)                -            6.0            9.7          0.1            1.6         17.7        1         0.1            1.3          1.1,        S0         3.7         --
11. Told Storag   (Fruit and Vegetable)          ..           10.5           13.9          0.7            2.1,        27.5        6         0.2            2.0          2.2         ;O         1.1         --
12.  Pro.essing (Fruit andi Vegetable)           -             6.o           27.7          1.0           3.3         38.0        9          0.0            2.2          3.0        56          1.7         -           -
13.  Flour Aills                                 -             L.?           11.6          0.5           1.7          18.0        1         02.            1.1          1.5         53         0.9 
lo~.  Distilleries (4i-, "tn.)                  3.1            2.5            7.7          0.2            1.1         11.6        3         0.1            8.           0.9         550.5                  - 
TaTAL                           11.6           122.5         217.3         12.6           38.6        132.5      100         6,9           27.7         31.6         50        17.1 
PERCEWTAGE OF TOTAL INVE,TTMENT 00srs           3             26             57             3             9          100)      10          20             30          100           5           -
1/  Fig.rsooeocd.






mE I I C O
LIVESTOCK AMD AORICULTURAL DEVELOPMEqNT PROJECT
1/
ESTIM&TES OF PROPOSED INVESTMENT PROGRA_
CATTLE - SOUTHEASTERN SUB-PROJECT
( PESc  '000,000)                                                    US$ 'OCO,OOO)
p R O P O S E D  TOrAL I0NVEST           ENT     COSTS                 Sub-                             Zst   ted i Tomreign
I8VEST1113!U CATE10Rll!S              Voll Drained   Flooded     Yucatan     Wet        Dry     T o t     a 1   Borrowerso   Lending     Total     ,chmge       nent
Villahermosa  Villahermosa          Huasteca   Nuasteca   (A71unt (t )    Investment   Program   Inves tmnt  (%)   (Ait)
I.   LAND IMPROVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
1. Feacing, (km)                                 13.20         2.10       1.11      9.00       6.oo     31.41     3       0.50        2.01       2.51       -
2. Land Clearing, (ha)                           57.75         1.50       4.05     42.00      10.00     118.30   12        1.89       7.57        9.46     10      0.95
3. Pasture Establishment (Rail£ed), (ha)         66.oo         6.8o       6.0o     33.75      16.oo    128.55    13       2.o6        8.23       10.29     10      1.03
4. Dam, (No.)                                     8.25         0.30       o.66     12.00       6.oo     27.21     3        0.44       1.74        2.18     30      o.65
5. Others                                        14.8o         L.80       3.08     26.05       5.00     53.73     6        o.86       3.44        4.30     32      1.37
SUB-TOTAL                                   160.00        18.50     114.90     122.80     43.00     359.20   37        5.75      22.99       28.74     14      L.Oo
II.   kGRICULTURAL M&CHINERY AND gUIPMDfT
1. Cattle Scales, (No.)                           9.90         1.00      0.20       4.20       1.00     16.30     1       0.26        1.OI        1.30     13      0.17
2. Machinery Unit, (No.)                        149.50 -/       _         1.20 3   27.00 2/    9 00 &'  86.70     9        1.38       5.55        6.93     40      2.77
3. Others                                        14.10         1.00      0.60       9.00       2.00     26.70     3        o.43       1.71        2.14     33      0.71
SUB-TOTAL                                    73.50         2.00       2.00     40.20      12.00     129.70   13        2.07       8.30       10.37     35      3.65
III. CONSTRUCTIONS AND INSrALLATIONS
1. Dips, (No.)                                   16.50         2.40      0.50       2.70       0.90     23.00     2       0.37        1.47        1.84      -       -
2. Farm Buildings, (No.) 4/                       6.60         1.00       0.40     15.00      14.00     27.00     3        o.43       1.73        2.16     10      0.22
3. Working Corrals, (No.)                         8.80         1.60       0.30      4.80       2.00      17.50    2        0.28       1.12        1.40      -       -
4. Others                                        20.60         2.00       0.30      11.00      1.10      35.00    3        0.56       2.2h        2.80     64      1.78
SUB-TOTAL                                    52.5o         7.00       1.50     33.50       8.00     102.50   10        1.64       6.56        8.20     24      2.00
IV.   BRIEDniO STOCK
1. Breedirg Age Femnales, (No.)                 192.50        25.00      10.00     90.00      32.50    350.00    36        5.60      22.40       28.00      10     2.80
2. Breeding Age Males, (No.)                     16.50         7.50       1.60      13.50      4.50      43.60    4        0.70       2.79        3.h9      16     0.55
3UB-TOTAL                                   209.00        32.50     1i.60      103.50     37.00     393.60   Lo        6.30      25.19       31.h9      11     3.35
GRAID TOTAL                                           495.00        60.0o      30.00    300.00     100.00    985.00   100       15.76      63.o4       78.80     16     13.,W0
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                   50            6          3        31         10          -     100       20         80          100        16      -          1
1/ Figures are Rounded.
2/ 'rhis "Machinery Unit" is composed of one Tractor (60-65 HP) (Pesos 70,000), one Flow or Harrow (Pesos 10,000), and one Rotary Mower (Pesos 10,000).
3/ This "Machinery Unit" is composed of Portable Sprayers and Oeneral Tools and Equipment, wme of wihch can be u,od in connection with Dams and Boreholes for Provision of
Water for Liv3stock.
4/ Storerooms, Cowboy Quarters, and Sheds.






M E X I C O
LIVMSTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL KVEILOPMENT PROJtCT
ESTIMATES OF ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL SERVICES COSTS COMBiNED FCR BOTH SUB PROJECTS
(Pesos '000)                                                           Estimated Foreign
EPEN]DITURE IT-EM                         1E2RS                               Total Coat           lar     ivlent        Exchange Componont
1           2            3         (      100' )                                         USW ($'000)
I.    TEHWICIAN TRAINING PRO MA-/
1.  Salaries                                       1,380       1,610        2,300           5,290                  423               80          338
2.  Bonuses                                          480         560         800            1,840                  147               20           28
3. Other Benefits                                    600         700       1,000            2,300                  184               30           55
4. Traveling and Living Expenses                     360         420         600            1,380                  110               80           88
5.  Transportation Squipment                         390         455         650            1,495                  120               40           48
6.  Special Costs for Technical Training             150         175          250             575                   46               50           23
7.  Provision of Salary Increase3_/                  300         450         900            1,650                  132               -            =
8.  Sub-Total                                      3,660       4,370       6,500           14,530                1,162               50          580
II.   FARMER TRAINING CENTER
1.  Cattle Purcbase4/                                625         -            -               625                   50              100           50
2.  Constructions and Installationsa5/               200         -           -                200                   16               10            1
3.  Milk Cooling Equipment and Storage Tank           62         -            -                62                    5              100            5
4. Pick-up Truck                                      31         -            -                31                    3               40            1
5. Alfalfa Establishment&1                           375         -            -               375                   30               10            3
6.  Salariesl/                                       187         -            -               187                   15               -            -
7.  Sub-Total                                      1,480         -            -             11480                  119               50           60
III. FARMER TRAINING PROGRAM
1. Transport tion8/                                    5           5            5              15                    1               -            _
2.  Per Diemt_/                                       75          75           75             225                   18               _            _
3.  Sub-Total                                         80          80           80             240                   19               -            -
rV.   CONSULTANTS, FOREIGN TRAVEL AND OTHERS
1.  Consultants and Foreign Travel -0/             1,250       1,250        1,250           3,750                   300             100          300
V.    TOTAL                                              6,470       5,700        7,830          20,000                 1,600              59          9h0
1/ Figures are rounded.
2/  The cost of the technician training program is considered to be the same as for regular employees.    The cost of this program would provide 115 new
FONDO staff.
3/ Also includes other incidental expenses.
4/ Purchase of 100 registered pregnant Holstein cows 0 US$500 each.
5/  Includes construction of milking parlor, shades, corrals for fresh and dry cows, heifers and calves, maternity stalls, water system, milk storage
room, and office.
6/ Establishment and maintenance of 30 ha of alfalfa over three years @ Pesos $12,500 per ha.
7/  Salaries of one Animal Husbandman and one Veterinarian for first year of program.
8/ Transportation from residence to training center @ Pesos $250 per person. Sixty farmers would be trained in 6 groups of 10 people per group.
/ At the rate of Pesos $60 per person per day for 60 days.
10/  Includes primarily consultants (individual and/or firms) for Agro-Industries and travel to Australia for two FONDO technicians to study tropical
pasture establishment and management.






ME X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICUlITURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMIRY OF TIE PROPOSED TOTAL PROJECT COST
( US$'OOO.0oo  )2!
L   I   V  E   S   T   0   C   K             ANNUAL         PERENNIAL        AGRO-        TECHNICAL
Southeastern   Countrywide      Sub-Total         CROPS          CROPS        INDUSTRIES       SERVICES      T 0 T A L
MAJOR INVESTrENT CATEGORIES          (Amount) (%)    (Amount) (%)   (Amount) (%)    (Amount) (%)   (Amount) (%)    (Amount) (%)   (Amount) (%)    (Amount) (%)
Land Impxuvdmmt and Development            28.74    37      9.92   27     38.66    33      4.86   30      3.60    47                                    47.12   27
On-Farm Irrigation Works                     -      -        -     -        -      -      2.58    16      1.70   22       -      -        -     -       4.28     2
Agricultural Kachinery and Fquipnant        10.37   13      3.91    11    14.28    12     8.03    49      0.69     9      -      -        -      -     23.00    13
Constructions and Installations             8.20    10     6.42    17     14.62    13     0.37     2      0.12    2       _      _        _     _      15.11     9
Breeding Stock                             31.49    40     16.61   45     48.10    42     0.54     3      1.53    20      -      -        -      -     50.17    28
Inputs for Agro-Industries                   -      -       -      -        -      -       -      -        -     -      34.60   loo       -            34.60    20
Technical Sarvices                           _      _        -     -        -      -       -      -        -      -       -      -       1.60   100     1.60     1
SUB-TOTAL                              78.80  100     36.86   100    115.66  100     16.38   100     7.64   100     34.60  loo      1.60   100    175.88  100
Working Capital                             10.67   -       5.30   -      15.97    -      2.35    -       1.10    -      4.70    -        -      -     24.1z    -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          89.47   -      42.16   _     131.63    -      18.73    -      8.74    -      39.30   -       1.60    -    200.00    -
1/ Figures are Rounded.






MEXICO
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOUTHEASTERN CATTLE DEVELOPMENT SUB-PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART FOR THE SOUTHEASTERN SUB-PROJECT (INCLUDING LAS HUASTECAS)
BANCO    DE MEXICO, S.A.
FONDO DE GARANTIA Y FObtENTO PARA LA AGRICULTURA,
.ANADERIA Y AVICULTURA
[             ~~~CENTRA,L OFFICE
SOUTHEASTERN REGIONAL RESIDENT OFFICE                                                                                     1 =   =  C   I
REGIONAL RESIDENT
GENERAL                       HEAD OF                 HEAD OF                 HEAD OF                      REGIONAL                   AANSRTV
COORDINATOR                   AGRICULTURAL             LIVESTOCK            AGRO-IID,U"PIES                  TECHNIAL                     coSRAIV
LAS HUASTECAS             DEVELOPmENT PROGRAmS     DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS    DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS             SUB-RESIDENT    l         l                   l R
STATE RESIDENT OFFCE    STATE RESIDENT OFFICE   STATE RESIDENT OFFICE   STATE RESIDENT OFFICE              STATE RESIDENT OFFICE                               STATE RESIOENT OFFICE
TA tAULIPAS        l       OAXACA                 CHIAPAS                 YUCATAN                          VILLAHERtAOSA                                         VERACRUZ
TAMPICO, TAMhAULIPAS      OAXACA, OAXACA        TUXTLA GTEZ, CHIAPAS      MERIDA, YUCATAN                 VlLLAHERMOSA,TABASCO                                 VERACRUZ, VERACRUZ
XOf<CP8  ClXI.D      E/                                                                                                         C      C  F             I
| TECHNICIANS                         TECHNICIANS
r--^          AGRONOMISTS                          AGRONOMISTS
ANIMAL HUSBANDMEN                    ANIMAL HUSBANAMEN         I
L-Ö- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -J--t     PRIVATE BANKS                   BANCOAGROPECUARI0 SYSTEM  I--1-Ö-Ö-Ö-Ö-Ö-Ö - -                                      ______
- DIRECT RELATIONS
COORDINATION AND RELATIONSI                                         AEAN,ECICLECNALCORTD                               FIE       3
Responsible lof accounling, statistics nd4 administrative personnel  L--  PERSONNEL WITH HEAOI"UARTERS  TEACNO NACIONAL ACROECUARICE
in Ihe Regional Resident Office and m all of thN SIate ResIdent      IN ME    TY
Offices which lorm Ihe Reglonal Residen Office.
z
z
January 1969                                                                                                                                                                                           (R)IBRD-4251   X
m






8mwr
LrVOSYCY AND0 AORIOULTU8AL DOMPrO9wT PWJ00T
787 5082D3'S P500JECT0D 0T7057 0F CASH9 R1C829TS AND DI38t5 StN7  OXAtMG M9 T70 5'5J00T
93118G THE I"! OF?n ItS!193  LOAN
to1100ofMexican Pesos)
TYears 
1         2        3        1.       5         6         7         S        9        10         11       12        13       11        18        1.6       17       18        19        20       Total
R E    O  571PT 
1. 3-roica..
A6Mne ..   os Bank of Mexic            13L-8     156.7     136.7     93.5      0.0Ö479,7
I.B80D Won18.-6.                                            329.3     705      9.                                                                                                                                                           1.5
T.0.1 Mo-oesc9                    290.7     5.79.8    466.0    121.0    13.7                                                                                                                                                       1,29'2.2
2. Gceeeseat Cooctrb.ti-Ot     ratPlco3                                              17.7      32.7      34.80    37.1      39.6     12.2       15.0      .8.0      51.2      51. 5    58.3      62.0     66.0      70.1.     75.1     93.1I      817.5
j . Colcto       Rd .dtoo t Grantd
2antlcloth,c tank.'
() 9oatr,o.id. ft-M9oJ.t                -.       30.2      79.1    111.0   198.1     163..     1 29.2    81.1      15.9      2.0ÖÖ86.0
(12) Sonth-.ooe Sob-PooJact     Ö          Ö25.2                     62.2   113.2     12L.2     125.9    101.5      63.7     12.6        1.6                                                                                              639.0
Total Initi.1 Re"i  -sot OCUectd     -        30.2     IDI..3   206.2    271.3    281.6     255.0     182.6     79.6     11.6         1.6   Ö        ÖÖÖ                                           ÖÖ1..0.0
b. OobMeq-tx Operati-. 1     Ö           Ö          Ö           Ö           Ö     1.6      20. 8    -56.1    1017.6_   166. 1   720.6___259.9        276.0     075.1    069.8     263.5     262.1    261.2     267.0     067.7    266,6     3 .216.9
T0.1 ModlovoteOo11-tsd               -.       30.2     106.3    006.7   275.59    305.1     311.0     2 90.2   215.7    235.2      761.5     776.2     275.1     269.0    263.5     762.1     261.2    767.0     267.7     266.6    1,676.0
(1) InItI.1 Lons--oot,ryAtd.
S.b-ProJe-                        11.1      26.2      13.8     30.9    27.0      06.0.      7.1       1.3      0.1       -                                                                                                           1PÖ 
(2) I.Mt.1 L-.n-Sonte-ees
Sob-ProJect                        9.6      21.9      37.9     37.5    30.1      21.1      12.6       5.5      1.0      0.1    Ö        ÖÖÖÖÖ176.5
(3) 8obeeqosot L-an                                          .-      11.6    33.9      56.0      72.1     95.0      93.7     91.8       91.9      91.9      91.9     91.9      91.9      91.9     91.9      91.9      91.9      91.9    I. 361.z
74.l1--otrt fr- MadOs-oot           19.7     1.8.0      81.7     9o.6    91.9      91.8      91.8      91.9     91.08    91.9       911.9     91.9      91.9      91.9     91.9      91.9      91.9     91.9      91.9      91.9     1.710.1
b. Teoloial ServIc    Fee-
AVr-Thdo.t.7 Loas
(1) In1it1 L-an                         0.7       1.1       1.4.     0.3     0.1Ö5.6
(2) Soteeq,ct loan                                            .-     0.5      0.5      0.9       0.9       0.6       0.7     0.7         0.: 8     0.8      C 08,     0.9       0.:8     0.:8      0.8       0.:8      0.8      0.8        05.3
Total T-bi.08.1 Se-st  Fe.           0.7       1.1       1.1.     0.5     0.9       0.9       0.9       0.0      0.7      0.7         0.8      0.8       0.9      0.5       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8       0.0       0.8        16.9
Total mo-s                          20.1.     19.1      93.1     91.1    91.8      92.7      921.7     92.7     92.5     92.6        91.7     92.7      92.7      92.7     92.7      92.7      92.7     21. 7     92.7      92.7    1,727.0
700.1 &,st.   8.0.300.                     331.1     1.00.1    653.1.    119.6  397.9     430.8     438.6    120.0     377 .9   370.0       393.2    1i6.9     L19.      116.0    111.5     116.8     122.7    171.1     1.35.5    139.1     8,518.6
0 I03  O U RS EM E0 N7T
I1. Redi.co.-  Orantd   Batc.ot       - Mco.:
a. 110.1 Dpo-ttoox.
(1  l,atrs0*  Sob-ProJat           151.6    210.7      324.7     70.1.    9.6Ö-                                                                                                       Ö                                               90.0
(2) So,theaoteee. O-Pro3Mt             102.9    189.2      255.2     55.8     7.6                                                                                                                                                ....     630.0
Tot.1 I.oita.1 Rodi.coot. Ora-.d   277.5     1.29.9    529.9    025.5    17.2    Ö         ÖÖÖ-ÖÖ                                                                               ÖÖÖ1,143.0 -
5  .b.Snsqoct Ops...ti-eo  2/               .-       .         -.-    266.2_ 075.9      301.6     311.1     293.0    215.7    095.2       261.5    276.0     275.1     268.8    263.5     262.1     261.2    267.0     267.7     066.6    1,511.6
Tota Rdi-o.st. Orate               207.5     129.9     579.9    331.7    293.1    301.6     311.1     290.2    269.7    238.2       261.5    276.2     005.0     26.6.    263.5     262.1     261.2     267.0    267.7     266.6     5,3970.6
C. Cot of Boroed Mose,
(1) C-teant F.. - MD3 LOa                5.5       1.0       1.8      0.4.Ö                    ÖÖÖ                                             ÖÖ                           ÖÖÖ                                             Ö7.7
52) Os-elce Ch-.ag  onB2   L-a  -
Oacto.1Fcanta                        --       0.3       0.7      0.9      0.0   Ö         ÖÖÖÖ                                                                ÖÖÖÖ2.9
(3) IntefeOt - 0880 10.0  5.1   18.2       36.3     0.3~~~~~~~~~~~L.9  52.5  51.3  191La. 1.                18         39.0      36.       320      2.        2.        22.0     17.9      135         .9      3.9       625.2
(4) lotaret - Ad-aoe fro
Boco fO Msntco                      3.9       8.6      12.7     14,3    11.1      11.3      11.1      13.5     13.5     13.0        12.5     10.9      11.0      10.3      9.1       8.3       7.1       5.6      L.1       2.3       205.0
T0.3.1 Cost of Bor-nd Mosey         3.5       70.1      52.1     65.5     67.9     65.6      63.2      62.6     52.9     51.8        51.5     ...9      L.o.      39.7      35.2     30.3      21.9      19.1     13.0       6.0       915.0
0.  .01.1 loc~-oo  F6.5050.               6.1       5.0        7.0      .0      7.0     01.2       508.2              5.6      0.     3.      .6   3-.0   3   ?.0       9.0       7.5      9.5       7.0      10.0     11.0      12.0       1711.0
Gecerl .0d A93100t-atioe Fap-.e         12.7      13.3      13.6     13.6    13.6      11.3      06.3     16.3      15.0     15.0        15.0     15.5      15.8      15,8     16.6      16.6      16.6      17.1     17.1      17.1       306.
YTa.a 87Eposs                       33.6      93.2      73.5     56.9    89.3      89.1      95.7      53.1     51.5     78.a        75.1      72.7     68.8      61.5     61.3      56.o      51.1     16.)      40.1.     33.6     I,321.6
a.088  Lon0!-15.5                                                                        32.7      31.5      37.1     39.6     4.2.2       a5.0     18.       51.2      51.5     583       6.         60      7.        75.1      9.1.
A. d-nc    f-o 8.0  of Mexio               -         -.                                   5.1.      7.0       0.6     11.0     11.0       17.6      20.0      23.9      28.0     31.1       6.       1.7       46.2     02.3      59.1       4103.9
Tota B-rolog. Rapldc                                                      15.5     38.1      11.8      46.7     93.6     56.1.       62.6      66.0     75.1      82.7      89.7     96.3     107.7     n16.6    127.4     139.2    1.016.1.
Tota1 loo-otd Dio.b-,mmeta         311.1     193.1     653.1.   1.1.6    397.9    1.30.8    139.6     121.0     373.8   370.0       399.2     416.9    4.19.0    1.16.0   411.5     416.8     122.9     430.1    435.5     439.1     8,509.6
01 oeto  f PrlIctpaI of IB00 Loan x11 to nd. by Goeeooet     Id .0 ccctderd as Moity .0otriti-ton  to  -totpicpl
2/  i tee toan a-d that the level    f oper-tlo-  ca  be, a06 611 beoItI        t 056 s-   le.el, at leas.t, 0f the  ii      ..11 . oertln..
Ao-orotgly, relcct        cIce     c   .oe     6be.3    rslon.






M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL 3EVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJRCTED PMYSICAL R!pACTl/
Countrywide Sub-Project                             Southeastern
INVESTMENT CATEGORIES                    Unit      Livestock      Anal              Perennial Crops      Sub-Total      Ct     Sboect              Total
(No)             (No                (No)                        (No)                           (No)
I. LAND IKPROVEMENT AND UEVELOPMENT
1. Land Clearing                                  ha           -             24,600                1,950             26,500           159,500               186,050
2. Land Leveling                                  ha                         26,750                3,200             29,950              -                   29,950
3.  Farm Drainage                                 ha           -              3,600                9,000            12,600               -                   12,600
4. Soil Erosion Control                           ha         3,500            3,600                 -                7,100               -                    7,100
5. Flood Control                                  ha           -              3,000                 -                3,000               -                    3,000
6.  Orchard Establishment                         ha           -              3,250                8,350            11,6oO               -                   11,600
7.  Alfalfa Establishment                         ha         9,400            1,000                 -               10,400               -                   10,400
8.  Pasture Establishment                         ha        47,600             -                     -               47,600           347,000               394,600
9.  Fencing                                       km         5,700             -                     250              5,950            10,070                16,020
10.  Boreholes with Windmills                       No          500              -                    -                  500              -                      500
11.  Dlms                                          No           500              -                    -                  500             4,780                 5,280
II. ON-FARM IRRIGATION WORKS
1.  Well Drilling                                 No           -                200                  -                  200              -                      200
2.  Canals                                        km           -                530                  100                630              -                      630
3.  Small Irrigation Schemes                      No           -                100                  -                  100              -                      100
4. Irrigation Improvement                         ha           -                                  17,350             17,350              -                   17,350
III. AGRICULTURAL MHACHINMY AND EQUIPMENT
1.  Tractors                                      No           -                700                    60               760              -                      760
2.  Implements, Tools and Machines                No           -                690                   290               980              -                      980
3.  Pumping Equipment                             No           -                200                  -                  200              -                      200
4. Frost Control Equipment                        No            -                300                  130               430              -                      430
5.  Spraying Equipment                            No           -                1480                  300               780              -                      780
6.  Trailers                                      No           380               300                  160               840              -                      840
7.  Squeeze Chutes                                No           180              -                    -                  180              -                      180
8.  Cattle Scales                                 No           200              -                    -                  200             1,500                 1,700
9.  Milking Equipment                             No           300              -                    -                  300              -                      300
10.  Milk Cooling and Storage Tanks                 No          300              -                    -                  300                                     300
11.  Feeders, Waterers and Miscellaneous            No          100              -                    -                  100              _                      100
12. Machinery Unit2/                               No           -                -                    -                 -                1,090                 1,090
13.  Machinery Unit3/                              No            -               -                    -                                    200                   200
IV.   CONSTRUCTIONS AND INSTALLATIONS
1.  Farm Baildings                                 No          870               300                  130             1,300               680                 1,980
2.  Cattle Dips                                   No           330              -                    -                  330             1,830                 2,160
3. Working Corrals                                No           630              -                    -                  630             1,3140                1,970
4. Complementary Installations                    No           300              -                    -                  300              -                      300
V.    BREEDING STOCK
1.  Plants and Cuttings for Perennial Crops        No           -            500,000            1,850,000         2,350,000              -                2,350,000
2.  Breeding Age Females                          No        65,190              -                    -               65,190           141,000               206,190W
3.  Breeding Age Males                            No         5,170              -                    -                5,170             7,200                12,3705/
1/ Agro-industries not included.
2/ This machinery unit is composed of one tractor (60-65 HP) (Pesos 70,000), one plough or harrow (Pesos 10,000) and one rotary mower (Pesos 10,000).
3/ This machinery unit is composed of portable sprayers and general tools and equipment, some of which can be used in connection with dams and boreholes for the provision
of water for livestock.
4/ This includes 167,000 beef heifers and cows, 22,000 dairy heifers and cows, 3,840 gilts and sows, and 13,350 nanny goats.
5/ This includes 12,000 beef bulls, 160 boars, and 210 billy goats.






M E X I_ O 
TLTVESTOCK lf'V D AMICUMTURaL DT 0EjkLOMIJ ECT
FfIANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
FIANCIAL RATES OF RETURN BY ENTERPISES
Y    E    A   R    S
E N T E       R P R I S                           1           2           3           4            5           6           7            8           9           I o/
( PESOS '000 )
SOUTHEASTERN CATTLE SUB-PROJECT
VllLAHE1A W'LL DRAINED
Sales                                                90.0        213.5       286.0       363.0        372.5       406.o       323.5        311.6       191.3      1,413.5
Operatirg lEpenses                                   77.5        144.6       197.2       219.9       235.0        246.2       199.3        124.0       122.6       131.1
Investr nt                                          300.0       150            -           -           -            -           -            -           -           -
Balance                                             (287.5)     ( 76.1)       88.8       113.1        137.5       159.8       124.2        187.6       168.7      1,282.4
Financial Rate of Return: 35%
VILLANR4SA FLOODED
Sales                                                30.6        55.2         87.4       192.0       168.4        152.6       127.8        120.2       119.5       652.0
Operating 1xpenses                                   30.6        62.2         77.3       117.7        106.6        92.0        64.o         54.1        51.9        51.9
Investne t                                          150.0        15t.0         -           -            -           -           -            -           -           -
Balance                                             (750.0)     (157.0)       10.0        74.3        61.8         60.6        63.8         66.1        67.6       600.1
Financial Rate of Return: 20%
YUATAN
Sales                                               102.2        105.2       123.6       142.3        120.9        90.3        76.3         84.1        84.1        570.7
Operating Expenses                                   65.0         72.8        90.2        80.4        56.7         35.9        15.7         16.2        16.2        16.2
InvestsBnt                                          150.0        150.0         -           -           -            -           -            -           -            -
Balance                                             (112.8)     (117.6)       33.4        61.9        64.2         514.4       60;6         67.9        67.9        554.5
Finamial Rate of Return: 27%
WT HSTBCA
3ales                                               198.5        469.1       5146.0      508.0        435.8       410.6       1408.5       408.5       408.5      1,836.1
Operating Expenses                                  218.3        339.9       343.9       326.0        262.1       221.9       214.4        214.4       214.4        214.4
Investment                                          500.0         -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -            -
Blwance                                            (519.8)       129.2       202.1       182.0        173.7       188,7       194.1        194.1       194.1      1,621.7
Pinancial Rate of Return2 38%
MRY H1EASMA
3ales                                               136.0        120.7       152.9       178.7        182.2       180.0       165.3        163.2       165.3        995.2
)perating Expenses                                   34.2         41.7        43.6        44.7         52.1        52.3        43.2         43.2        43.2         43.2
Inestment                                           410.0        90.0                      -            -           -           -            -           -            -
Ralance                                            (308.2)      ( 11,0)      109.3       134.0        130.1       127.7       122.1        122.1       122.1        952.0
Financial Rate of Return: 34%
iales in the last year includes incremental hard value. herd value.






AMYSX Li
Anpendix 1
Table   2
M E X I C O
LIVE3STOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AII1 AWCUIORIL RATES O? RET5tRN
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN NT E3ERPRISES
B N T E R P R I S E                                                                          Y     E   A   R   5 A S
1           2           3           L           5            6           7           8           9          107
PEWOS '513
COUNTRYWIDE LIVESTOCK
1. SWINE (IRRIGATED NORTH & CENTRAL PLATELU)
Sales                                              406.4                   812.8       812.8        812.8       812.8       812.8       812.8       812.8      1,177.5
Operating Expenses                                 497.9       602.2       602.2        602.2       602.2       602.2       602.2       602.2       602.2       602.2
Investment                                         230.0                     -           -           -                  -           -           -                 -
Balance                                           (321.5)      210.6       210.6        210.6       210.6       210.6       210.6       210.6       210.6       575.3
Financial Rate of Ret,rn: 66%
2. POULT1i (IrRIrL7TED MORT & CENfRAL FSATRAU)
Sales                                              208.8       417.6        417.6       417.6       417.6       417.6       417.6       417.6       417.6        537.6
Operating Expenses                                 190.0       397.2       397.2        397.2       397.2       397.2       397.2       397.2       397.2        397.2
Investment                                         200.0         -           -           -            -           -           -           -           -            -
Balance                                           (181.2)       20.4        20.4         20.4        20.4        20.4        20.4        20.4        20.4        140.4
Financial Rate of Return: 12%
3. SHEEP/GOATS (ARID uEm)
Sales                                               397         54.2        54.2         54.2        54.2        54.2        54.2        56.2        54.2        200.4
Opoerting Expenses                                  27.7        29.7        29.7         29.7        29.7        29.7        29.7        29.7        29.7        29.7
Invsetmont                                         120.0         -           -           -            -           -           -           -            -           -
Balance                                           (108.0)       24.5        24.5         24.5        24.5        24.5        24.5        24.5        24.5        170.7
Finamcial Rate of Retmrn: 25%
4. REF (AID NCRTH )
Sales                                               61.8        43.7         55.5        66.3       108.3       113.6       117.9       117.9        117.9       485.8
O,-orating  peno-                                   13.3        21.C         26.0        32.6        28.0        28.1        28.7        28,2         28.2        28.2
investment                                         321.0         -           -            -                       -           -           -            -           -
Ealance                                           (271.5)       22,2         28.6        33.7        80.3        85.3        89.7        89.7         89.7       657.6
Financial Rfate of Return: 22%
5. BEEF (DHa TRlPICG)
Sales                                               49.2        35.6         91.4       148.4       127.5       103.2       100.2        98.7         98.7       384.1
Operating Expenses                                   9.1         19.3        56.7        84.8        65.9        52.1        35.2         35.2        35.2        35.2
Investment                                         266.0       104.0         -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -
Balance                                           (225.9)      ( 87.7)       34.7        63.6        61.6        51.1        65.0        63.5         63.5       348.9
Finarcial Rate of Return: 14S
6. DAIRY (IRRIGAiTED NiTh)
Sales                                              594.9        604.4       828.8       856.8       856.8       856,8       870.8        870.8       870.8     1,o80.8
Operating Expense-s                                155.7        457.1       521.9       522.6       522.6       522.6       522.6        522.6       522.6       522.6
Invest,nent                                       1,000.0        -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -
Balance                                            (859.8)      147.3       306.9       334.2       335.2       334.2       334.2        335.2       335.2     1,358.2
Financial Rate of Return:  336
7. DAIRY (CEITRAL PLATEAUI)
Sales                                                -          513.5       673.h       781.3       811.3       311,3        811.3       8ii.3       811.3     1,640.3
Operating Expenses                                 531.5        566.3       513.0       522.,1      527.5       51?.14       52..I       522.6       522.4       522.5
bnvestment                                         670.0         30,0         -           -           -           -            -           -           -           -
B1alance                                         (1,108.5)       17.1       160.1       259.?       758.3       15. 9        7,.B9      27;. 9       25R.i     1,117.9
Financial Rots of AeuLur:  161L
1/ Sales in tie LasL year includes .cre::enbaL herd value.






ARNED 11
L0rST0CK AlAD AORICDOLTORAL DO LOPMUNT PROJECT
.FINNCA   AND FECONOMUC RiATES OF RETUOR
T    A    A    R    S
E NTO R PRUSI                                               1           2           3                     5          6          7          8          9          10
PESOS 'oo 
C02HrE!WIDE AMORA.L AND PERENNIAL CROPS
1.  ANNUAL CROPS (IRIGRCATED NORTH)
5.1.                                                                                    103.0       222.0       281.0       360.0      360.0      340.0     340.0       340.0      360.0      36O0.
0poroo tig  p.P.-                                                                       211.0       211.0       211.0       211.0      211.0      211.0     211.0       210.0      211.0      21-1.0
Eo.,0=to                                                                                196.0        -           -           -          -          -         -           -          -          -
5.10,00                                                                                (306.0)       11.0        70.0       129.0      129.0      129.0     129.0       129.0      129.0      129.0
pio.ocl.1 0.t. of R.0.W,0   27%
2. ANAUAL CROPS3 (ARID NORTH)
001.0                                                            ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~274.0  276.0  276.0  276.0  276.0  276.0  274.0  274.0  276.0  274.0
O'pora-o:nt   po.g                                                                      211.0       211.0       211.0       211.0      211.0      211.0     211.0       211.0      211.0      211.2
I ~.0..no.                                                                              225.0        --                      -          -          -         -           -          -          -
BolOac,    t.     F.:        1                                                         (202.0)       63.0        63.0        63.0       63.0       63.0      63.0        63.0       63.0       63.0
3. ANNUAL CROP'S (flED TROPICS)
Solo                                                                                     -          135.0       130.0       130.0      135.0,     130.0     135.0       135.0      135.0      135.0
0poo.11og RAp.....                                                                       (0.0)       73.0        73.0        73.0       73.0       73.0      73.0        73.0       73.0       73.0
Cr.t.t                                                                             203.0         -           -           -         -           -        -            -          -          -
(260.0)       62.0        62.0        62.0       62.0       62.0      62.0        62.0       62.0       62.0
Fi-.0.1.  Rot, of Rotor,    22%
L.  PRED)OIINANThY  A.NNUAL CRORPS (IRRIRArED NORTH)
So.lo                                                                                   149.0       201.0       205.0       363.0      377.0      377.0     377.0       377.0      377.0      377.0
0p-.r.gE~  &1.9000                                                                      179.0       179.0       179.0       179.0      179.0      179.0     179.0       179.0      179.0      179.0
IovOSEflU                                                         000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.0  -  -   -          -          -         -           -          -          -
RB...(080.0)                                                                                         72.0        26.0       161.0      198.0      198.0     198.0       198.0      190.0      198.0
Fi-ooi.1 1.. of 0.1oo,:     20%
5.  PRMOROMUJNLT AMIAUR CROPS (A.RID W0IH)
0.1.0                                                                                     6.0        36.         02.0        66.0       96.0      I01.0     111.0       111.0      111.0      111.0
op-r.11g (.p.oe.                                                                         (3.0)       (2.0,)       E.0        20.0       26.0       20.0      25.0        20.0       25.0       25.0
0.,.t.Umt                                                                                72.0         8.0        20.0        -          -          ----
B-1- I                                                           ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~(63.0)  30.0  20.0  66.0  72.0       86.0      86.0        06.0       86.0       06.0
Pi,o.oi.1 Mot of Sot-,,     678
6.  PR)OIXR*'LYML. ANNUAL CROPS (CENRAL PIATEAU - RAINFED WITH ORAVIT! IRRIOATION)
S.a .                                                                                   (52.5)      (52.5)      (35.0)       -          35.0       07.5      87.0        07.0       07.5       07.5
Op.r.tiPR lbcp.-.o.                                                                     (33.6)      (33.6)      (33.6)       )5.6)       -          5.6       5.6         5.6        5.6        5.6
lo- btoot                                                                               123.8        19.3        02.0        --                     -         --- 
B     .1.oo                                                                            (106.9)       (0.6)      (20.6)       (0.6)      35.0       81.9      81.9        81.9       81.9       01.9
Fi-.i.11 1ot. of R.0.,.     288
7.  PRAU)OXIIA2'UM  ANNUAL CROPS (CENTRAL PLATEAU - RAINFED WOTH PWAIM3 IURRSGLTIOO)
50100                                                                                   206.8       206.8       206.8       206.8      206.8      206.8     206.8       206.0      206.0      006.8
Oper-toog E1pe....                                                                      116.0       116.5       116.0       116.5      116.5      116.5     116.0       116.5      116.0      116.0
I., t0.ot                                                                               258,5        -           --                     -          -         -           -          -          -
0B...oo                                                                                (179.0)       90.3        90.3        90.3       90.3       90.3      90.3        90.3       90.3       90.3
8. PSRDOEORANILY ANNUALL CROPS (WET TUOO-ICS)
S.1.-                                                                                    57.0        57.0        72.0        87.0      117.0      167.0     167.0       067.0      i47.0      16,7.0
Op-rtiog hopen...                                                                        31 .3       31.3        31.3        53.7       59.3       66.9      66.9        66.9       66.9       64.9,
On-ot-ot                                                                                169.6        16.5        16.0             -          -          -                -          -          -
B.1000                                                                                 (1613.7)       9.2        26.2        33.3       57.7       82.1      82.1        82.1       02.1       82.1
F10.-ci.1 F0. of M.tof      33%
9.  PORORINL CROPS (DRY TROPICS(
30.1,                                                                                    13.0        63.0        73.0       163.0      203.0      375.0     373.0       323.0      373.0      373.0
Opor_ttog EOp ..,..                                                                       7.0        L0.0        53.0        78. 0      96.0      107.0     107.0       107.0      107.0      007.0
Th. . tm,.t                                                                             176.0        26.0        10.0        -                     -         -                      --
R.1..oe                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~   ~~~~    ~   ~~~~(170.0)  (21.0)  10.0  80.0  159.0  267.0  267.0  267.0  262.0  267.0
Floonclob Nao of Rotor,     69%
10. KMED CROPS (IRRIGATED NORTH)
060.                                                                                   (293.0)     (293.0)     (206.0)       57.0      237.0      (.17.0    417.0      6,17.0      117.0      417.0
operonoog 190.-.                                                                       (226.0)     (226.0)     (226.0)     (100.0)     (71.0)     (61.0)    (11.0)      (61.0)     (01.0)     (11.0)
0,00000.0n0                                                      ~~~~~~       ~~~~    ~   ~~~~    ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~~222.0  79.0  86.0  -  -  -  --. 
0.1.,..,                                                         (~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~155.0)  (12.0)  (102.0)  109.0  308.0  6086.0  658.0  658.0  L58.0     658.0
Flo.-o.1 0.0. of RAt-,.    72%
Li.  RIlED CROPS (A.RID NORTH)
0..                                                                                      50.0       160.0       230.0       260.0      306.0      370.0     370.0       370.0      370.0      370.0
op-rtiog Rop00000                                                                        70.0       106.0       106.0       130.0      14.0.      150.0     150.0       100.0      150.0      100.0
lO-, 0. ~t                                                                              2000         -           -           -          -          -         ----
Bolonc                                                                                 (260.0)       36.0       131.0       130.0      166.0      220.0     220.0       220.0      220.0      220.0
Fto-ol.   R.0. of R.Iur.    68%
12. HMIE   CROPS (DRYT TROPICS - PURE O  IRAPT  IRRIGATION)
0.1 .                                                                                   (11.3)       O8.7       102.2       115.8      136.9      136.7     136.7       136.7      136.7      136.7
op-r,oooo   o.W.-.                                                                       (8.6        48.7        56.3        59.9       70.2       72.2      72.2        72.2       72.2       72.2
1.,..t   t                                                       ~~~~~170.5                -           -          -         -           -          -                     -
RB....                                                                                 (167.6)       60.0        67.9        00.9       66.5       66.5      66.0        66.0       66.5       66.0
,i-.i.lo R,t. of Rotn.,     30%
13. mum) cRops (DRY! TRopics - RAiNPED wrOH PUMING IRREIUATIOR(
W6..                                                                                    126.0       126.0       111.0       106.8      186.0      216.0     216.0       216.0      216.0      216.0
Oporottog Bo.].-.                                                                        87.0        87.0        87.0       11.1.0     117.0      123.0     123.0       123.0      123.0      123.0
0,ov.,o..oot                                                     ~~~~~~~                         ~    ~     ~    ~~         ~     ~   ~      ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~~200.0  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
NB.ac.                                                                                 (181.0)       39.0        56.0        65.0       69.0       93.0      93.0        93.0       93.0       93.0
Fi-i.1.o  R.t. of Rotor,    32%






ANM11
LIVU!OO   AD AaIaULlAL LIM=TO        PRJin
FINNCIL AN1D &MM= RAMU OFZ1
FINANIAL 8*! OF 8NTrN ErZW
E N   E i P R :                                         I                                             N .  A    A    s
12                 3            4.                        67                                                  I
(psmx o
ODWUWrIDU AMOD-INDU2TRIUB
I 3- 000V7 9)0001
One.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75,368.0  100,4.20 10192.0  100,4.92.o  100,1.92.0  100,4.92.0  100,1.92.0  100,0.2.0   100,1.92.0   100,110P.1.
op-r,,ing Eéq--~e                                     74,136.0      98,850.0     98,850.0     98,850.0     98,850.0     98,850.0     98,850.0     98,850.0     98,850.0      1,5.
en---en                                               5,250.0                       -            -            -            -            -            -
.~~~ iam e                                4~~~1,018.0)  i,61.2.o    1,64.2.0     1,61.2.0     1,61.2.o     1,61.2.0     1,61.2.0     1,6L2.0      1,612.0       1, 6!0.0C
Fi-m.,.a  Rti  0 Rtun      37%
PU_ROCESSINGPANS(5    UtéR)
Ste-                                                   17,4.00.0    19,900.0     22,1.00.0    22,1.00.0    22,1.00.0    22,1.00.0    22,1O.00.     22,1.00.0   22,100.0      22.00...
Operaing SRopenn                                       16,200.0     18,700.0     21,200.0     21,200.0     21,200.0     21,200.0     21,200.0     21,200.0     21,200.0      2 1,210c.1~
Inveeteret                               1.,7~~~~   ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~~60.0  -  -  -  -  -            -            -            - 
bounce                                  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,560.0)  1,200.0  1,200.0  1,200.0  1,200.0      1,200.0       L,200.0D    1,000.0       1,21C.0.)   0, 200 
Fi,c-.n   late of' Return  30%
3.001IL POORDOSIRO LIS (SMVU)
Salo                                                   4,536.0       5,29,2.0     6,01.8.0     6,01.8.0     6,804.0      6,806.0      6,804.0      6,801.0      6,8o0(l.1    o,.
Opracon~~~~~~ Enpennee                   6~~~~~,21.8.0  6,916.0      5,54.3.0     5,54.3.0    6,258.0      6,258.0      6,258.0       6,250.0      5,256.1      .7
ove,Ur.efl,.                            ~~~~~~~     ~    ~      ~  ~~1,500.0  -  -        -            -            -            -
001,5, e                                1 ~~~~~~~~  ~    ~~~~~1,212.0)  376.0  505.0  505.0     546.0        51.6.0       54.6.o        546.o        5.6.0,       'L..,
9)u)1Rate of Ret-.n, 37%
4.. 01l0 0C_PROCESX P1.5TS (MILK Iff-P800MTS
OnIl-                                                    694.0         694.0        691.0        694.0        696.0        696.0        694.o)       696.0        691.0,       6,1.1-
C'1oe-ti.ig lnpenees                                     600.0         600.0        600.0        600.0        600o.0       600.0        600.1        600.0        600.0o       611
Onveeteeno                                ~~~~~~         ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~~225.0  -  - ----
Ralance                                C ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~319.0)  96.0  96.0  96.0  96.0       96.0         96.0         91.0         96.0           .1c
FiTh-ncl Rtat 01 Ret-rn    24%
5.  TOU0,TRY PROCE3SIMI AND S00 HANOLI8 PLAHr
RaI.se                                                 3,087.0       6,236.0      6,236.0      4,236.0      6,236.0      6,236.0      6,236.0      1.,234.0     1,236.1      .,2361.
Op-rting Expennee                                       2,772.0      3,4.56.o     3,4.56.0     3,656.0      3,4.56.0     3,656.0      3,4.56.0     3,L.56.o     3,L.56.0     3,050.0
Inveelaneol                              ~~~~~~~    ~    ~      ~    ~       ~~2,160.0  -  -  -  -            -            - 
Ralonce                                 ( ~~~~~~~~  ~   ~~~~~1,845.0)  778.0  778.0  7p8.0      778.0        778.0        778.0        778.0        776.1         775.1.
Floni-ial Rat, nof Return,  39%
6. FEED 11000T9. 01.011
Salon                                                    868.0       1,150.0      1,265.0      1,265.0      1,265.0      1,265.0      1,265.0      1,265.0      1,2(5.0       1 ,70
Ore-tcne ZnPeneee                                        850.0       1,130.0      1,200.0      1,200.0      1,2D0.0      1,200.0      1,200.0      1,200.0      0,2(C.0      0,201.r
Ir-etn,,nt                                               121.0          -            ----                                         -                   -            -
F-, 00c e                                             (  103.0)         20.0         65.0         65.0         65.o         65.0         65.c         65.0         65.0         (.
Fina-ia1 RaIn of Ret-rn    46%
7  9.0:0 T LAGELIAREHO0000 (LARGE)
OniLn                                                  1,880.0       1,880,0      1,880.0      1,880.0      1,880.0      1,880.0      1,880.0      1,680.0      1,)zo.o.     1,6.
09p0-L:.,q E.-Serne                                      719.0         719.0        719.0        719.0        719.0        719.0        719.0        709.1        711,.0       '13.'
ln-ot-tno                                              3,570.0          -            --                        -            -            -            -
Ralanon                                 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,609.0)  1,161.0  1,161.0  1,161.0   1,161.0      1,161.0        ,6i. 1, 161.0 01600       ,161.0 ,c.
Fi-i.ll aicr nof ReIt,,.  L66
3  1.111UT 200100M. WO4REXCT2RR (OMALL)
D                                        4~~~~~~~~~~~~,377.0  6,377.0  6,377.0   6,377.0      6,377.0      6,377.0      6,377.0      .,,377.0     1,,377, 0      37.
Dp~~~ratirJ; loponnen ~~~~~~~3,930.0                   3,930.0      3,930.0      3,930.0      3,930.0      3,930.0      3,930.0      3,930.1    ,   ,'30.1 ,G
,rvnn1.00,1t                            ~~~~~~~~         ~      ~     ~~1,620.0  -  -  -         - 
Rajan..                                               C 1,173.0)       61.7.0       1.1..0       1.1..0       1.17.0       1.67.0       1.7.0        017.0 C       ,d7.0        ,.*
Zoin'. - O Oats of Ret.-: 35%
Rule-                                                   4.,320.0      6,320.0     6,320.0      6,320.0      6,320.0      4;320.0      6,320.0      6,320.0         32,37.1   .3é.:
On-on-ng   oEnues-                                     6,120.0       4,120.0      6,120.0      6,120.0      4.,120.0     6,120.0      6,120.0      !.,020.1     L,1020.0     c,201.-
flouo.xe,a:,                              ~~~~~~         ~     ~     ~~~~~660.0  -  - 
2.nlu,,oo                              1   6~~~~~   ~   ~~~~~   ~~60.0)  200.0  200.0  200.0    200.0        200.0        200.0        200.0        211.           )
Yonrl lane of Ret,u'n   Li%
Fi3ZIn l'00ERRSIX 9011TS (COTTON)
7,900.0       7,900.0      7,900.0      7,900.0      7,900.0      7,900.0      7,900.0     '1, 101.      2,1. I .1     ,0.
)opnoco  ...ee                                    5,867.0       5,867.0      5,867.0      5,867.0      5,867.0      5,867.0      5,867.0      5,867.0      0(.0         5,0967.0
.nonooonno.                             ~~~~~~~~    ~    ~     ~     ~~8,34.0.0  -  -  - 
l.nO.anne                               C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,307.0)  2,033.0  2,033.0  2,033.0    2,033.0      2,033.0      2,033.0      2,033.0      2,033.0      2.0C33.
Fiao,,.al bate of Ret-rn   28%
1).  100  PROCESS11, PIAITTS (COCONUT)
bnlo-                                                  5,200.0       5,200.0      5,200.0      5,200.0      5,200.0      5,200.0      5,200.0      5,200.0      5,201.0      5,001.0)
F--; none                                       6,700.0       6,700.0      6,700.0      4,700.0      6,700.0      6,700.0      4,700.0      0,700.0     !;,700.O     71,7.1C
lnvn,,t,-,e,,t -                        ~~~~~~~     ~  ~~1,790.0  -           -            -            -     .- 
Ralun on                                ( ~~~~~~~~  ~   ~~~~1,290.0)  500.0  500.0  500.0       500.0        500.0        O00.         500.0        501.0        51,
Oiaca0lte of Return   358
Ral-                                                  90,765.0      90,765.0     90,765.0     910,765.0    90,765.0     90,765.0     90,765.0     90,765.0     90,765.0     20,765.0
Ojanratlo  Orpenace                     ~~~~~~~~~~87,765.0  87,765.0  87,765.0   87,765.0    87,765.0     87,765.0o     7750        8,6.         0,6.          7750
laneentrant                              1~~~~~~~   ~    ~     ~    ~~3,190.0  -  -        -            -            -
Ralunne                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~(10,190.0)  3,000.0  3,000.0  3,000.0  3,000.0  3,000.0      3,000.0      3,000.0      3,000J.0      3,000.0
Fi-ncLal Rate of eturn, 238






ANNEX f
M E X I C O                                                                rApcnix I
L.VESTOCY .m  C         ' TOGC PFlOlW
FINANCIAL AND R00NOMIC RATES OF REIURN
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN Br ETERPRISES
I   B  A   R  S
l N T S R P R I S I
1           2           3          4           5           6          7           8           9           10
( PFSOS 000 )
COUNTEMWIdE AO-OTRISS
13. FUTILIZX  AND HiSECTICE MIXIN PLAITS
Sales                                              808.0       808.0       808.0      8O8.O       808.0       808.o       8C8.0      808.0       8C8.0       808.0
operating Ezpenes                                  610.0       610.0       61o.o      598.0       598.0       598.0       598.0      598.0       598.0       598.0
Tnstwnt                                            915.0                               -           -           -          -           -           -           -
FacR                                             ( 717.0)      198.0       198.0      210.0       210.0       210.0      210.0       210.0       210.0       21O.0
Financial Rate of RLeturn:  23S
14. FRUIT AID VUTANS PACK      PKAN"
Sales                                            1,988.0     1,988.0     1,988.0     1,988.0    1,988.0     1,988.0     1,988.0     1,988.0    1,988.0     1,988.0
Operating Rqpnaes                                1,701.0     1,701.0     1,701.0     1,701.0    1,701.0     1,701.0     1,701.0     1,701.0    1,701.0     1,701.0
Imestint                                           870.0        -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -
Balance                                            583.0)      287.0       287.0      287.0       287.0       287.0       287.0       287.0      287.0       287.0
Fincial Rate of Return:( 47
15.  YU? AND VADBLE COLD sRkS PLAITS (TLRn)
Sales                                              600.0       600.0       600.0      60.0         00.0       600.0       600.0      600.0       600.0       600.0
Operating BEnaes                                   147.0       147.0       147.0      147.0       147.0       147.0       147.0       147.0      147.0       147.0
Investant                                        1,810.0        -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -           -
l   -n a  a                                      (1,357.0)     453.0       453.0      453.0       453.0       453.0                   453.0      453.0       453.0
Pi-ajl Rate of Retiurnt  29%
16. FRIuT AND Vmrnm    COLD STORAGE PLNTS (SMALL)
Sales                                              300.0       300.0       300.0       300.0      300.0       300.0       300.0       300.0      300.0       302.0
Operating Expenses                                 254.0       250.o       250.0       250.0      250.0       250.0       250.0       250.0      250.0       250.0
Invsstaent                                         180.0        -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -           -
Balance                                          ( 134.0)       50.0        50.0       50.0        50.0        50.0        50.0        50.0       50.0        50.0
Flnandal PRte of Return:  3L%
17. FRUnIT AM VBSEAEIZ PROCusnINa PLn'S
Sales                                             2,444.O    2,444.0     2,444.0     2,444.0     2,444.0    2,444.0     2,444.o     2,444.0     2,444.0     2,444.0
Operating Expenses                                1,244.0    1,244.0     1,244.0     1,244.0     1,244.0    1,244.0     1,244.0     1,244.0     1,244.0     1,244.0
Izeestacnt                                       4,700.0        -           -          -           -           -           -           -          -           -
al.ance                                         (3,500.0)    1,200.0     1,200.0     1,200.0     1,200.0    1,200.0     1,200.0     1,200.0     1,200.0    1,200.0
Financial Rate of Return:  30%
18. FlOUR MELL
Sales                                            16,150.0   16,150.0    16,150.0    16,150.0    16,150.0   16,150.0    16,150.0    16,150.0    16,150.0    16,150.0
Opwrating Expeses                                15,072.0   15,000.0    15,000.0    15,000.0    15,000.0   15,000.0    15,000.0    15,000.0    15,000.0    15,OO0.O
Inveatsent                                       3,580.0        -           -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -
Balance                                          (2,502.0)   1,150.0     1,150.0     1,150.0     1,150.0    1,150.0     1,150.0     1,150.0     1,150.0     1,150.0
Financial Rate of Return:  43%
19. WINE OR DISTI.LERIES
Sales                                              565.0       751.0       751.0       751.0      751.0       751.0       751.0       751.0       751.0      751.0
Operating RExpnes                                  301.0       402.0       402.0       402.0      402.0       402.o       402.0       402. 0      402.0      402.0
Investraeot                                      1,150.0              -           -          -           -           -           -                -           -
Balance                                          ( 886.0)      349.0       349.0       349.o       31,9.0     349.0       349.0       349.0       349.0      349.0
Fimancia Pate of Return:  36%






M E X I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AID ECONCQIC RATES OF RETURN
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN Br MAJOR ENTERPRISES
MAJOR ENTERPRISE                                                                                        E              S
1           2            3            45                       6            7            8           9           10
(PESOS 'OO)
I.   SOUTHEASTERN CATTLE SUB-DJECT
Firancial Balance                                  (169,261)   (238,522)    (293,432)     124,676     279,807      313,623      309,858     328,099      328,921    2,749,530
Financial Rate of Return: 35%
II. COUNTRYWIDE AGRO-INDUSTRIES
Financial Balanre                                  ( 93,032)   (80,905)     ( 43,993)     127,634     130,124      130,418      130,623     130,623      130,623      130,623
Financial Rate of Return: 35%
III. COUNTRYWIDE LIVESTOCK
Firncial Balance                                   ( 98,377)   (142,759)    (210,304)     62,378      109,503      129,547      140,172     141,455      143,701      644,565
Financial Rate of Return: 21%
IV. COUNTRYWIDE ANNUAL CROPS
Financial Balance                                  ( 75,379)    ( 71,502)   ( 66,946)      51,984      75,019       98,820      110,035      118,116     121,688      122,299
Firancial Rate of Return: 29%
V.   COUNTRYWIDE PENNIAL CROPS
Financial Balance                                  ( 22,988)   ( 22,958)    ( 23,152)      22,329      39,078       58,4ol       78,670      95,o80      104,240      111,330
Financial Rate of Return: 48%
VI. COUNTRYWIDE SUB-PlOJECT (II+III+IV)
Financial Balance                                  (289,776)    (318,124)   (344,395)     264,325     353,724      417,186      459,50∞      485,274     500,252    1,008,817
Fimxxcial Rate of Return: 28%
VII. TOTAL PROJECT (I+II+III+rV)
Financial Balance                                  (459,037)    (556,646)   (637,827)     389,001     633,531      730,809      769,358      813,373     829,173    3,758,347
Financial Rate of Return: 32%






H I I I C O
LIVESTOCK AND AaRICULTURAL DIWP)NT PECT
FINANCIAL AND ESONOMIC RATES OF RETDUR
BCON31IC RATES OF RTNTUE
SUB-PROJBCTS                                                                                          2 E  A   R    S
1           2           3            4           5           6            7           8           9           10
rOS     )- --
SOUTHESTERN oTTLm SUB-PROJECT
Financial Balance                                     (169,261)   (238,522)   (293,432)     124,676     2795807     313,623     309,858      328,099     328,921   2,749,530
TechFical Services                                      (5,400)     (5,300)     (6,200)      (6,600)     (6,500)     (6,800)     (7,000)      (7,000)     (7,100)     (7,100)
Economic Balance                                      (174,661)   (243,822)   (299,632)     118,076     273,307     306,823     302,858      321,0o9     321,821   2,742,430
sconsic Rate of Return: 34%
COUTREWRd SU8-PJECT
Financial Baance                                      (289,776)   (318,124)    (3414,395)   264,325     353,724     I417,186    459,500      485,274     500,252    1,008,617
Tcchnical Services                                     (8,200)      (8,000)     (9,400)      (9,800)     (9,800)    (1O,300)    (10,500)     (10,600)    (10,600)    (10,600)
Taxes                                                                 -                      25,520      26,025      26,085      26,125       26,125      26,125      26,125
Economic Balance                                      (297,976)   (326,12L4)  (353,795)     280,0145    369,949     1432,971     475,125     500,799     515,777    1,024,342
Economic Rate of Return: 28%
TOrAL PRMjg
Financial. Balance                                    (1459,037)  (556,646)    (637,827)    389,001     633,531     730,809      769,358     813,373     829,173    3,758,347
Technical Services                                     (13,600)    (13,300)    (15,600)     (16,400)    (16,300)     17,100)      17,500)    (17,600)    (17,700)      17,700)
Taxes                                                                                        25,520      26,025      26,085       26,t25      26,125      26,125      26,125
Economic Balance                                      (1472,637)  (569,946)    (653,427)    398,121     643,256     739,794      777,983     821,898     837,598    3,766,772
Economic Rate of Return: 31%






MEXICO
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COUNTRYWIDE LIVE;TOCK AND AGFRCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUB-PROJECT
ECOLOGICALLY HOMOGENEOUS AND LAND USE REGIONS
,  , g   .,. .S   ~~~~SONORA   l $X
CHIHUAHUA  (
thiho.hoa  A
>t as<  9    Ws        *    z~~~NN  COAHUILAl   e
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
bu+>  >x-¢JhIa   XSAhLUIS PIOTOSIX 
:,5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Siil 'ac n  Mo
e-(1-
AS  ~~~e~~j115  (* ~ ~ ~ 0 LjI  Victoria  C 
Iq6~~~~-S ~~4 .Nr.
*0~~~~~~~
CA~~~~~~ 
illi, 1AT11GORIE-1~~~~I    /M C1 AC r. '-   O
REGIONS           lQF-*E' '                       CC  PCH
0      A~t:  t~~t  04         ...          Lntuiti
N-th      lqg.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2. Arid North                   +'A.         ri rrn i   \   j
3 Central Plateau .$t
::x<.j Irrigated  .~~A 1. Se  Tropics.-                                4'
S. We~t T-opi-a*                               ~ & . 
JANUARy  loGs  lij-e cities              I  l Oll  200  S00  4COR -Ks






MEXICO
LIVESTOCK  AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT       PROJECT
-;)t+:e~.        SOUTHEASTERN    CATTLE DEVELOPMENT SUB-PROJECT
\  <>~~~~>^ ~GENERAL SUB-PROJECT LOCATION
0      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<     j     SONOiA   $         \.SO,O,
CAM~U ILA   -
-                                         /_  _
'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
4   t   ' -  A   t 1  D/AN;   (\   ∞ j0 \ 0  
u       <   s>    Du0ranR∞k,NCO  t  4   Sf / 
ZACATECAS  /  If
V     ;ACAfO~A~ L>        acSAAn iuIs POQsAg
r", 0
1\< ~    j '-9*&ZC I*Ano
up~~~;  I  C~~   S.   L~
-~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      -          G~~~~~~~~~~rULP F  0  N ME XIC 
-           S~~~~~~~~ALI O ise 
-Sf., -ur      I r_.  O   tLAXCALA.\
_  IonnsnIdrncs Of tinO  Pcolfn.5c51L  lEeOGGlbOCGOG' -'   I,zJ-  \UV5nL∞   Pseh1io , i Jal- .  --'  CbP Ct heEumls   t
cInd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c  I Jne  i.e  r ginf  l:l  t!3   ∞l-n uc  >   _J  8 
r~~~~~~~o  Flonnid ,-n  r ,.n  Ié~~   I  .             lcros'S;OXC atl , 
l~~~~~n  inns w>tICS ,Dt 
@,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N YeiC i 
fi      Act luantocs RII .1 i(c  A19-59                           OlfUA-
Floonlcnl  It A nllalnyrntnosa~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.- I 
~~~LI  Sn  nI-elI - I                                  A- '         c
0  0  2o  0 0  300  400K.                             I C32.6
CD
JANUARI 1969



